DRN-2028511
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium insurance (PPI) policy in 1997, when she made a dual application for a debit card 
and a credit card.
What happened
In 1997, Miss P applied for a debit and a credit card by completing an application form. PPI 
was added to her account. She says this was done without her knowledge; she says she 
didnt need PPI so she wouldnt have agreed to it. She didnt think Barclays had any proof 
she did want PPI. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
The policy cost was no more than 70p per £100 Miss P owed on her card. The policy would 
have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on a card each month up to a maximum of 12 
months if Miss P couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. Miss P disagreed with our adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ps complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays made it clear the policy was an optional product. Barclays 
produced a copy of Miss Ps account card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I want my Barclaycard accounts to be covered This box is ticked on Miss 
Ps application. She said this wasnt her tick, so I can reasonably assume the form was 
most likely completed by a member of staff. I noted she declined and accepted other offers 
on the application form - so I think the form was diligently completed and there was 
probably some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as she 
signed the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think 
her signature means Barclays probably made it clear the policy was optional and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember 
this.
I can reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements  so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say she would have queried the 
premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Miss 
P likely was aware the policy was optional and chose to purchase it because she saw some 
value in it.
Barclays said it advised Miss P to take out the PPI. This means Barclays had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her. I think it probably was suitable because she was eligible to 
buy PPI; it seems it was affordable for her at the time of the sale. And she wasnt affected by 
the things the policy didnt cover (the exclusions). 
I then looked at Miss Ps finances at the time of the sale to see if they made the policy 
unsuitable for her.
She told us she could not remember how much sick pay she would get or if she had any 
savings at the time. But as she had been employed for eight months, I think she was 
probably entitled to statutory sick pay (at least). However, the PPI policy could have paid out 
in addition to and probably for longer than Miss Ps employee benefits so it could have 
proved useful to Miss P if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. And she could 
have used any savings she did have for other expenses. So I dont think her employee 
benefits made the policy unsuitable for her.
Also for advised sales, Barclays had to provide her with clear information about the policy so 
she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Miss P received about the policy at the time of the 
sale. But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
I dont know if Barclays made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Miss P to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But having decided she wanted this 
type of cover and chose to have it, I dont think that having any more detailed information 
about the cost and benefits would have put her off from buying PPI.
I also dont know how Barclays told her about the exclusions in the policy. But I dont think 
the main exclusions affected her. So I dont think any more detailed information about the 
exclusions would have put her off from buying PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI; and 
I think she consented to have it added to her account. I also think she would still have taken 
out the cover even if she had been given full details about it. Ive taken into account all of 
Miss Ps submissions, but they do not change my conclusion. So I am not going to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman