DRN-3646993
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. He wants to be held not at fault, and for Admiral to reimburse his 
policy excess and to pay him compensation for his inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in a collision with another driver and Admiral said he would be held at 
fault. When Mr M complained about this, Admiral wrongly told Mr M that liability was still 
being reviewed. So Mr M tried to find out what was happening on many occasions, without 
success. Admiral paid Mr M £150 compensation for delays in the claim and poor 
communication. But Mr M said he was left with the impression that the liability decision may 
be reversed based on case law. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral had 
reasonably held Mr M at fault for the accident, as it was entitled to do by the policys terms 
and conditions. But he thought Admiral had repeatedly confused Mr M with its poor 
communication and this had caused him avoidable frustration and inconvenience. Admiral 
had offered Mr M £100 further compensation for this. But the Investigator recommended that 
this should be increased to £200. 
Admiral agreed to do this. But Mr M replied that he thought Admiral had recorded the 
incorrect outcome for his claim. He asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated by how his claim has been handled and by the 
confusing communications from Admiral. 
From what I can see, the accident happened when Mr M pulled out of a junction and collided 
with another car that he thought was turning left into his junction. The other driver had been 
indicating to turn left into this junction but changed his mind at the last moment and 
continued straight ahead. Mr M looked left and then pulled out without again checking his 
right and so the cars collided. Mr M said the other driver admitted liability at the scene. So he 
thought he shouldnt be held fully at fault. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr M the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision on liability.
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two drivers versions of events and the 
damage to their cars. There were no independent witnesses or CCTV footage available. So 
Admiral made its decision based on the Highway Code which put greater onus on Mr M to 
take care as he was emerging into a main road. It also said Mr M should be alert to 
misleading indicator signals. It said it couldnt prove that the other driver had been negligent. 
And it thought a judge would find against Mr M if the matter went to court. So it held Mr M 
fully liable for the accident. 
Mr M thought the decision may have been affected because the other driver was also 
insured by Admiral. But I cant see any evidence of this. I can see from Admirals file that it 
dealt with the two claims separately. And Admiral has already explained to Mr M that the 
other drivers admission of fault wouldnt be held against him as he couldnt be proved to 
have been negligent. 
I think Admiral made its decision on liability after reasonably investigating the claim and 
considering the evidence. I think its entitled to this by the policys terms and conditions. So I 
cant say that Admiral did anything wrong in this or needs to change its decision. 
In responding to Mr Ms complaint, Admiral quoted case law where a judge had found in 
favour of an emerging driver. But the circumstances werent the same as Mr Ms accident. In 
Mr Ms case, there were conflicting versions of events, there was no corroboration of the 
events, the other driver hadnt slowed down, and the driver had turned off his indicator. And 
so I think Admiral reasonably admitted that it had made a mistake in quoting this case law 
and paid Mr M £50 compensation for its error. 
And it later paid Mr M a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
poor claim handling. It had repeated the same error and wrongly referred Mr M to its legal 
service which didnt get involved in liability decisions. 
I think this caused Mr M considerable confusion, frustration and trouble. And I can see that 
Admiral has agreed to offer Mr M £200 further compensation for this and its poor 
communication. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact 
these errors had. So I think thats fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £200 further compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman