DRN-2910472
The complaint
On behalf of Miss J, Mr J complains about delays and issues with Nationwide Building 
Society when transferring an ISA to another business. 
What happened
On 10 September 2020 Nationwide closed Miss Js existing ISA and paid the funds into a 
holding account. A cheque was issued by Nationwide for the funds and sent to the new ISA 
provider. 
There as a delay in processing the cheque. Mr J spoke with both businesses involved but 
neither was able to say what had happened. On 30 September 2020 Mr J spoke with 
Nationwide and it offered to issue a new cheque. Mr J also raised a complaint. 
Mr J spoke with someone else on 2 October 2020 who said the cheque had been reissued.
Nationwide responded on 8 October 2020 and said it was aware of ongoing delays with the 
other ISA provider and that it could only sent funds via cheque. Nationwide offered £50 for 
the trouble and upset caused by not writing to Mr J to confirm it had completed the ISA 
transfer. Nationwide also apologised for the service provided during a call. 
Over the following weeks Mr J continued to contact Nationwide and another replacement 
cheque was sent to the new ISAP provider on 26 October 2020, this time by recorded 
delivery. The cheque was received by the new ISA provider and a new account was opened. 
Nationwide issued follow up responses for Miss Js complaint but didnt offer to cover the 
interest she missed out on whilst the transfer process went through. The new ISA provider 
opened an account for Miss J on 2 November 2020. It later agreed to backdate interest to 10 
September 2020. 
Mr J referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr J 
asked to appeal and said £50 wasnt a fair settlement when taking account of the distress he 
and Miss J experienced. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear there was a substantial delay in Miss Js funds reaching the new ISA provider. And 
I can understand why Mr J was concerned that his daughters savings might have been lost. 
Ive looked at the information available to see whether Nationwide made any errors or 
treated Miss J unfairly. 
Nationwide has explained it doesnt normally send ISA transfer cheques via recorded 
delivery. Its also confirmed it doesnt write to customers to tell them when the transfer 
process has gone through. We arent the regulator and cant tell a business how to operate. 
So whilst I understand Mr J feels these were steps Nationwide shouldve taken, Im satisfied 
the ISA transfer was processed in line with its normal approach. Im satisfied Nationwide 
closed Miss Js ISA in September 2020 as claimed and sent a cheque for the funds to the 
new ISA provider. 
I dont know why there were delays in receiving Nationwides cheques. But Im satisfied they 
were sent in line with the dates Nationwide has given. 
In recognition of the delay, Nationwide agreed to send a replacement cheque by recorded 
delivery and it was dispatched on 26 October 2020. The new ISA was opened around a 
week later. I think Nationwide took reasonable steps to try and resolve the delay after it 
became clear there was an issue with cheques being sent to the ISA provider in question. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded to increase the settlement in this 
case. As Ive said above, I havent found information that shows Nationwide made a mistake 
or caused the delay. Im satisfied Nationwide sent cheques on the dates provided and acted 
in line with its normal process for closing ISAs. 
Mr J says Nationwide shouldve told them when Miss Js ISA transfer was processed. 
Nationwide has apologised that it doesnt offer that service and recognised that, in Miss Js 
case, it wouldve saved some of the upset caused. Nationwide also apologised for some of 
the service provided. In my view, £50 is a fair reflection of the impact caused by these issues 
on Miss J. As Im satisfied Nationwide has paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, Im not telling it to take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to confirm 
whether Miss J accepts or rejects my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman