DRN-1937311
Complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Leeds Building Society (Leeds BS) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
Mr and Mrs W bought two separate MPPI policies alongside a further advance on their 
mortgage in 2008. This was to help them with their repayments if either were unable to work 
because of accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. But Mr and Mrs W disagree, so 
its come to me for a final decision. 
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they were unaware that they had MPPI and they didnt need it. Leeds BS 
says it made the optional nature of the MPPI clear and it was added to their account after 
they agreed to it. Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely based on all the evidence available which includes Mr and Mrs Ws testimony. 
Ive seen a copy of two printed application forms (these were called Mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance Application Form) for both Mr and Mrs W and these show that they 
selected accident and sickness cover only. Although the selection is pre-printed, they have 
both signed their respective forms to confirm the selection made and I wouldve expected 
them to have looked over their forms before signing them. This form shows they couldve 
bought more extensive cover (covering accident, sickness and unemployment) or less 
extensive cover (covering unemployment only). So, they appear to have exercised some 
degree of consideration and choice. 
Ive also seen a welcome letter confirming the acceptance of their MPPI applications, and 
had they not agreed to MPPI, I wouldve expected them to have questioned this on receipt of 
that letter. Leeds BS has also provided copies of their certificate of insurance documents 
which set out their monthly benefit, cost and type of cover. 
Their further advance offer letter has a separate section for insurance. In it, it explicitly says 
You are not obliged to take out any insurance as a condition of this Additional Borrowing. 
So, I think its clear that the MPPI was optional. 
Overall, whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W have said, I think its more 
likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out MPPI knowing they had a choice. Leeds BS recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check that it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, they were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the MPPI cover. They also seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs W were both employed and had good sick pay provided by their employer. They 
also had some savings available. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay for 
up to 12 months which is longer than their full sick pay wouldve lasted. And having the MPPI 
left their savings available for them to use on other essential expenditure. 
I appreciate they may have felt their jobs were secure, so they didnt need MPPI. But they 
appear to have considered this by not buying the unemployment element of the cover. And 
accident and sickness cannot be predicted  thats what insurance is for, the unexpected. So 
I still think they couldve found it useful had they found themselves unexpectedly out of work 
because of illness or injury. 
Its possible the information Leeds BS gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I think they wouldve found the cover useful to protect the further advance on their 
mortgage, which was a long term and significant commitment secured on their home  so 
the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been very serious. 
So, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Leeds BS doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Leeds BS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Leeds BS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Leeds BS didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Leeds BS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But Leeds Building Society does have to pay back any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman