DRN-3164941
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2002. 
Ms T says Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited mis-sold her this PPI. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer mainly to SPML throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think SPML 
was the company responsible for selling the PPI.
Ms T disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint against SPML as it isnt 
responsible for the sale. 
Having read all the information and evidence with great care, I can see Ms T genuinely feels 
now that she was mis-sold this type of cover by SPML. And I sympathise with the journey 
she has had to date in trying to get to the bottom of what might have happened.
However, the evidence Ive seen points away from SMPL being responsible for the actual 
PPI sale. SMPL told us it was not responsible for the sale. It suggested another company as 
being responsible, largely because the PPI was sold by an intermediary (or broker). 
Its not surprising that after such a long time, we have only limited information still available 
from the point of sale. Ms T took out, and indeed closed, her mortgage some time ago, and 
businesses arent expected to keep records indefinitely. Nevertheless, we do still have some 
documentation to refer to and having seen a few similar cases as an ombudsman, I can also 
draw upon that experience to help me think about what is more likely to have happened. 
In my view, the documents we have sight of in this case do tend to show Ms T used an 
intermediary and the PPI was bought through them when they were helping her get a 
mortgage arranged. The documents show she bought PPI during the same sale process 
therefore and this was through the intermediary, not SPML. Its also my experience that 
SPML didnt usually sell PPI in the way alleged by Ms T; it typically received and processed 
applications for PPI that were forwarded to it by an intermediary, such as a broker or 
financial adviser, together with applications for mortgages. Thats not to say this happened 
every time, but from what Ive seen, this is what happened here.
It therefore follows that I dont think SPML is responsible for the PPI sale and so I dont 
uphold this complaint against SPML. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms T, however, that is my final decision.
my final decision
Im satisfied Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited isnt responsible for the sale of the PPI policy 
and so I dont up uphold Ms Ts complaint against Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman