DRN-3367131
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc declined her request to port (transfer) her 
mortgage onto another property and borrow additional funds (along with her partner). In 
order to proceed with her new purchase, Mrs O and her partner had to find another lender. 
As a result, Mrs O had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when she repaid her 
mortgage to Clydesdale. Mrs O thinks this is unfair. 
In addition, Mrs O says she was told the ERC was only 1% of the repaid balance, when in 
fact it was 4%. Mrs O says the ERC was never explained to her when she originally took out 
the mortgage in 2018. 
To settle the complaint, Mrs O would like Clydesdale to reduce the ERC to 1% rather than 
the 4% she was charged.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs O took out a mortgage with Clydesdale. She borrowed £97,000 over 20 years 
4 months on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest until 
30 November 2021. If the mortgage was repaid before that date an ERC would be charged. 
The mortgage offer shows that this was on a tapering basis, being 6% in the first year, 5% in 
the second year and 4% in the third year. 
The mortgage offer also stated that the mortgage interest rate product could be ported 
(transferred) onto a new mortgage if you meet all of our lending criteria when you ask to 
port.
In 2020 Mrs O wanted to sell her property and purchase a new one with her partner. She 
wanted to port her existing mortgage product and borrow a total of £195,000, which was 
more than double the amount of her original mortgage. 
Clydesdale declined to issue an Agreement in Principle (AIP) as the amount Mrs O and her 
partner required was outside Clydesdales affordability assessment. Mrs O says she was 
told that the bank had changed its lending criteria, which is why the request for an AIP was 
declined. Clydesdale said it would agree to Mrs O porting the amount of her existing 
mortgage (about £92,000) but with no additional borrowing.
However, this wouldnt have allowed Mrs O and her partner to purchase the property they 
wanted and so they decided to source a mortgage from another lender. Mrs O contacted 
Clydesdale to ask about the ERC and was incorrectly told that it would be 1% of the amount 
repaid, whereas, in fact, it would be 5% if the mortgage was repaid before 30 November 
2020, and would reduce by 1% to 4% on 1 December 2020.
The mortgage was repaid in January 2021, with an ERC of 4% of the amount repaid.
Mrs O complained to Clydesdale. She wasnt happy that the AIP had been declined and that 
Clydesdale had changed its lending criteria since she had first applied for the mortgage in 
2018 without telling her. Mrs O was also unhappy that shed been told the ERC was 1% 
when she had actually been charged 4%. Mrs O said that shed never been given any 
explanation of what the ERC was when shed taken out the mortgage.
Clydesdale acknowledged Mrs O believed she had been given incorrect information about 
the ERC. The bank paid her £25 compensation for this. However, the bank explained in its 
final response letter that the ERC was (at that point) 5%, but would reduce to 4% on 
1 December 2020.
Clydesdale also explained that any new application to port the mortgage was subject to 
meeting lending criteria at the time of the application. Clydesdale said that it wasnt required 
to tell customers about changes in its lending criteria.
Dissatisfied with Clydesdales response, Mrs O brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think 
Clydesdale had done anything wrong in relation to declining the AIP. The investigator 
explained that, if Mrs O had applied to port the same amount as her existing mortgage, 
Clydesdale could have bypassed any affordability assessment. But as there was additional 
borrowing requested, Clydesdale was entitled to consider whether this was affordable. The 
AIP showed that it was not. 
The investigator was also satisfied that the bank was entitled to charge the 4% ERC. But he 
thought the compensation of £25 offered by the bank for incorrectly telling Mrs O that the 
ERC was 1% was too low. He thought the bank should pay compensation of £100 for this 
mistake.
Clydesdale doesnt appear to have responded. Mrs O disagreed with the investigators 
opinion. She maintained that there had been no change to her credit history since the 
original mortgage had been taken out. 
Mrs O said that she and her partner had been forced to take out another mortgage, and 
feels it is unfair she had to pay the ERC only because Clydesdale had changed its lending 
criteria. Mrs O said that on the day of completion, after thinking the ERC was going to be 
£970 (1%), she found out it was £3,900 (4%), and that this was no small sum to find on the 
day of completion. 
Mrs O said that if shed been told in 2018 that she might not be able to port, shed have 
looked at other lenders at that time. Mrs O was also unhappy that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was not taking the consumers point of view at all.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and 
impartial. This means that we do not represent the interests either of consumers or of the 
businesses they are complaining about. We are neither a consumer champion nor an 
industry watchdog. Our role is to consider individual complaints against businesses and 
reach a decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
AIP: I can see from what Mrs O has told us that she believes the AIP was declined because 
she had had a previous default on her credit file. The AIP shows that the maximum 
Clydesdale was prepared to lend was lower than the amount Mrs O and her partner wanted to borrow, and in addition there were other issues on Clydesdales scoring which resulted in 
a decline. As a result, Clydesdale wasnt prepared to allow her to port the existing mortgage 
plus additional borrowing. 
Mrs O has focussed on an earlier default she had prior to the 2018 mortgage as what she 
says is the (unfair) reason for the decline. However, in common with most mainstream 
lenders, Clydesdales scoring is not based solely on a customers credit score, but is a more 
nuanced, risk-based assessment. 
The mortgage offer is clear that any application to port is based on Clydesdales lending 
criteria in place at the time of the request to port. Clydesdale isnt obliged to contact every 
customer each time its lending criteria change. If mortgage lenders were to publish all their 
lending criteria, customers could temporarily manipulate their finances in order to meet 
criteria and obtain a mortgage that they would otherwise not be eligible for. For this reason, 
lenders generally keep their detailed lending criteria confidential. (To be clear, I am not 
suggesting for one minute that Mrs O falls into the category of a customer who would 
manipulate their finances, but I am explaining this to clarify why lenders dont publish their 
detailed lending criteria.)
Clydesdale was prepared to allow a port of the interest rate product without any additional 
borrowing. As this wouldnt meet Mrs Os requirements for her new purchase, she and her 
partner decided to go elsewhere. This was their choice, and I cant see that they were, as 
Mrs O claims, forced to do this. Clydesdale wasnt under any obligation to offer Mrs O and 
her partner another £100,000 on top of the existing mortgage if they didnt meet its lending 
criteria. 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
ERC: Mrs O says the ERC was never explained to her. But I can see that details of the ERC 
appear in the mortgage illustration and mortgage offer. The explanation of how the ERC 
works is quite clear, and shows the percentage amount of the ERC on a tapering basis, and 
the dates when the percentage will reduce. The ERC is a contractual term to which Mrs O 
agreed when taking out a fixed rate on her mortgage. Because the contract was ended 
before the fixed rate period expired, the ERC was payable to Clydesdale. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs O was very briefly led to believe the ERC would be 1% of the 
amount outstanding when it was in fact 4%. Mrs O told us on 9 March 2022 that on the day 
of completion of her purchase (14 January 2021) she thought the ERC was £970, but then 
found out it was actually £3,900, leaving them with insufficient funds to complete the 
purchase. She says this is not a little sum of money to be short on day of settlement. 
I am not persuaded, however, that it was only at the point of completion of her purchase that 
Mrs O first found out about the amount of the ERC. I say this because Mrs O also sent us an 
email she wrote to her mortgage broker dated 30 October 2020 in which she says I started 
a complaint with CB about the ERC they are charging me 4% which they are not waiving .  
And in her original complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 30 October 2020 
Mrs O told us that she knew at that point the ERC was 4%. In addition, in its final response 
letter dated 23 October 2020, Clydesdale clarified that the ERC would be 5%, reducing to 
4% on 1 December 2020. In that final response letter Clydesdale offered Mrs O £25 for 
incorrectly saying the ERC would be 1%. 
Given this, I am not persuaded that it was only on the day of completion on 14 January 2021 
that Mrs O first discovered the ERC was 4% and had to find the extra money on that day in 
order to complete her purchase. It appears Mrs O was aware of the amount of the ERC 
several months earlier. Putting things right
Clydesdale paid Mrs O £25 compensation for any misunderstanding over the ERC. I agree 
with the investigator that this is insufficient and I think a sum of £100 is more appropriate for 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs O was caused in relation to the mistake over the ERC.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs O was hoping for. I can see she feels very strongly 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt taken her side. But as I explained above, we 
do not take sides or represent either one of the parties in a complaint. Ive looked carefully at 
everything Mrs O and Clydesdale have said and, having done so, other than increasing the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, Im unable to find Clydesdale has done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc must pay Mrs O £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience in full and final settlement of this complaint. I make no other 
order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman