DRN-3562036
The complaint
Mr N complains about the cash oil positions in his Contracts for Difference account held with
CMC Markets UK plc. He says when the market went into negative pricing, they made the
decision to rebase his holdings to a December futures contract causing him significant 
losses. He also complains about the pricing of the instrument.
What happened
Mr Ns position
Mr N held Crude Oil West Texas Cash positions in his Contracts for Difference (CFD)
account with CMC Markets UK plc (CMC). In April 2020, for the first time in history, oil went
into negative pricing causing a dislocation in the market. He says CMCs decision to move its
futures contract from June to a December contract is unfair. He says the oil cash commodity
spot product should be following the June contract and historically has always been the way
it has been calculated. He says that by changing it to the December futures contract, CMC
have fundamentally changed the product that he invested in.
Mr N says CMCs decision to rebase to the December contract meant that his holding costs
increased from 23% per annum to 225% per annum. In addition, they have unfairly fixed the
price of oil daily cash instrument low at $8, despite the rest of the market increasing prices
by around $10 to around $16.4 and prices for December being at $28.50. He says the new
price should impact new customers who would be informed of the price at the time of
purchase and shouldnt impact those customers with existing positions. He says the cash
product was trading at $17.24 and so to keep the price at $8 is unfair. The low price has
meant he is at a loss having purchased his positions at a much higher price.
As a result of the change in approach by CMC and the reduced price at $8, Mr N has seen
his holdings drop in value, leaving him with losses amounting to around $18500. He says
these changes had nothing to do with the oil market and happened because CMC chose to
change their approach for their own benefit because they gain from the interest rate in the
holding charge and also on the spread.
He says he sold all his positions by 30 April 2020 after he didnt get a successful outcome
from complaining to CMC. As a resolution he wants to be put back in the position he would
have been in had CMC not rebased from June to December.
CMCs position
When Cash Oil prices went into negative pricing in April 2020, CMC say they had to act
swiftly in order to protect the interests of the customers while the volatility continued. They
say it is standard practice when the contract expiry is approaching to rebase its pricing to the
most liquid near futures contract available in the underlying market at that time, which in this
case was June 2020.
They say cash oil prices are affected by inferred holding rates which are impacted every time
a change is made in the contract. These are inferred because they dont have a fixed
continuous price (as is the case with other trades) and is calculated based on the difference
in the mid-point of each contract  so for example where a contract is from 1st  30th April,
the mid-point would be 15th April. The holding rates would be calculated based on the price
difference between 15th April (current cash price) and 15th May (the mid-point of the nearest
most liquid available contract). Any difference in price is then offset as holding costs during
that trading contract. The price is recalculated and built into the new contracts with 3%
applied as daily holding costs.
CMC say that despite rebasing the price to June contract, the negative pricing meant the
holding costs were very high so they had to rebase to a December contract in order to
balance out the increase in holding cost. They say they had to do this because:-
They needed to maintain stability in the cash price and safeguard against any
continued fall, that could have led to another negative settlement price if rebased to
the near month future contract. A further negative price meant they would not be able
to offer the product for that future contract.
They needed to reduce holding costs for their clients. These would have been around
780% if rebased to the near month future contract, June. The June contract was 
trading at US$22.50 compared with US$0.45 in May. Even though December pricing 
was US$30.38, the expiry time being seven months later allowed for a period of 
convergence to create a discounted holding rate at 225%.
They say the terms of their User Agreement allows them to set their own prices, to make 
changes to those prices and without notice, so they were within their rights to do this. They 
say the losses on Mr Ns account were based on the trading decisions he made. They say 
they informed him of the decision they took and asked him to review his positions and take 
any steps he felt appropriate. They feel it is not reasonable to assume that his future trades 
would have been profitable if they hadnt taken this action  which they feel was reasonable 
given the extreme circumstances of the market.
CMC also agreed to make a payment of £504.64 as a gesture of goodwill for errors in
relation to an additional increase in holding costs on 21st and 22nd April 2020. It is noted 
that this is separate to the holding costs going up to 225% as a result of the rebase to the
December contract. However, Mr N says this was actually a refund for being charged in
excess of 500% holding costs in error and they refunded this money as correction of the
error.
Investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and initially said, CMC had acted in accordance with
the terms of the User Agreement and didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that CMC
had the discretion to make changes to the contract and that he had agreed to these terms.
He also said the unpredictability in the market added to this situation. Mr N didnt agree and
provided further information.
Upon review, the investigator agreed that CMC should have provided their customers notice
of the changes in advance but said it wasnt obliged to let the positions run for an indefinite
period and would not be liable for any loss of profit these changes would bring about. He
didnt agree that the trades should be unwound back to the June contract and didnt uphold
the complaint.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator so this has come to me for a final decision.I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2022 explaining why I was intending to uphold 
this. I include this below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both parties that I have reviewed all the information provided by
them and mean no discourtesy by not commenting on every point mentioned.
I have started my investigation by looking at whether CMC had the contractual right to make
the changes they did. Clause 9.3 of the user Agreement confirms that CMC can set their
own prices and make changes to those prices without giving any notice. So, it is clear they
are within their rights to set their own prices for their products and make changes to the price
and products they offer - their terms give them the discretion to make those changes.
Whilst it is not within my remit to tell a business what its terms and conditions should say or
how it should operate, it is key to look at how CMC have exercised their discretion when
making these changes. I would expect them be fair and reasonable in exercising their
discretion and so must consider whether in this instance their action was exercised in this
way or not.
CMC have explained how their prices are derived from the mid-point of the current contract
and the mid-point nearest liquid future contract with any difference in prices offset against
holding costs and 3%. I would expect their prices to be similar as they would follow crude oil
prices in the underlying market but that doesnt necessarily mean they have to be the same
because CMC set their own prices so some variation is expected.
I have to consider what consumers would reasonably expect to happen when rebasing the
futures contracts and pricing. Rebasing to the nearest most liquid future contract would be
standard practice. The positions Mr N held had a May expiry and so the nearest liquid future
contract would be June and this is what would reasonably be expected and usually happens.
In Mr Ns case, the positions were all moved from June to December contract which was
unexpected. CMC themselves have accepted that this is the first time theyve moved to a
futures contract this many months ahead. I understand they say their reason for doing this
was to stabilise the price to avoid a further negative price and to reduce the holding costs for
consumers by relying on convergence over that period. However, I agree with Mr N that the
very act of making these changes meant the price was no longer derived the same way
using the nearest liquid futures contract and fundamentally changed the product. It was no
longer the oil cash commodity spot product which he had invested in.
So, this brings me onto thinking about whether Mr N should have been informed of these
changes. As mentioned above, I accept that changes to the pricing of its products does not
require CMC to notify its consumers. However, where the change is of such significance that
there is a fundamental change in the product, would it be fair to tie Mr N into a futures
contract for a product he never invested in without informing him or giving him to option to
cease the trades? CMC say they did inform Mr N of these changes in an email to him on 21st 
April 2020 at 17:06 but looking at the date and times, this notification was sent after his
positions had already been transferred an hour and 43 minutes before. I think it was a
reasonable expectation that CMC should have notified him prior to making any change. In
the event where they were unable to give him prior notice, they should at least have given
him the opportunity to cease any trades without penalty.
Ive also considered what information Mr N was given in the notification and whether this
was sufficient in allowing him to make an informed choice on what to do next. CMC offer anon-advisory execution only service so they werent responsible for the trading decisions he
takes but they must give him information that is clear and not misleading in order for him to
make an informed decision. So, I looked at the contents of the communication to him and
would say that the level of detail is insufficient in informing the consumer what the real
impact of such a change was.
I also understand that Mr N is an experienced trader who has been trading for several years.
He didnt have prior knowledge of what was to come but from the information he has
provided of the detailed communications with CMC and this service, it is clear that the
notice given to him was sufficient for him to know what was happening. He was in a position
to understand the impact of these changes and make an informed decision to mitigate any
further losses that would be incurred. I take on board what Mr N says about his
communications with CMC and that he was hoping for a positive outcome from them but
essentially, he knew what was happening at this point and made the decision to continue
with these trades. This leads me to conclude that any positions still open after the notification
to Mr N was his own trading decision so I dont think it would be fair to hold CMC responsible
for any losses on these later trades.
In terms of trades that were opened between 20 to 21 April 2020 and moved to the
December contract before notifying Mr N, I am satisfied that he opened these positions when
he believed it was an oil cash commodity with a near month futures contract. Through no
fault of his own, there was a fundamental change in the product which meant it was no
longer the same product he invested in and so I think it would be unfair for him to bear any
losses as a result of CMCs decision to make those significant changes to it.
It is difficult to say what he would have done had the positions stayed at the June contract
and whether he would have continued with the positions or closed them. With the market
conditions being as they were, I feel any speculation on this will largely be dictated by the
benefit of hindsight. Im also not persuaded that Mr N would have still invested in the oil
positions had he been informed of these changes beforehand because it was a specific cash
oil product that he was looking to invest in and the changes CMC made, meant it was no
longer that product. So, I think its only fair that CMC should have given him the opportunity
to exit those trades. As I dont think he would have invested in these positions had he
known about these changes, it follows that he wouldnt be paid for loss of profits on positions
he wouldnt otherwise have invested in.
What CMC needs to do
CMC should put Mr N back in the position he would have been in had he not opened his
positions in the Crude Oil West Texas cash product. They should unwind the trades that
were opened between 20 to 21 April 2020 and were rolled over to the December contract
before notice was given to him. This should also include a full refund of the associated 
holding costs, and any other relevant charges that were applied.
The way in which the changes were made to the oil positions and the uncertainty of it, in
additional to the holding costs added considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr N. I
intend to ask CMC to pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
As explained, I dont intend to ask CMC to pay Mr N for loss of profits.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint against CMC Markets UK plc.
They should unwind all trades opened between 20 to 21 April 2020 and were rolled over to
the December contract before notice was given to him. It will be for CMC Markets UK plc to
decide how best to do this, but they must ensure Mr N is put in the position that the trade didnot happen. In doing so, if a balance payable arises, they should not stand to benefit.
They should include a full refund of the associated holding costs, and any other relevant
charges that were applied. In addition, they should pay him £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N responded to my provisional decision interpreting my provisional decision to say CMC 
should unwind all loss making trades and refund all holding costs and associated charges. 
He made further comments on the wording of the provisional decision seeking clarification. 
CMC responded to my decision asking for clarification of the redress in my provisional 
decision. 
My addendum to the provisional decision
In response, on 14 June 2022, I wrote an addendum to my provisional decision amending 
my original provisional decision above.
What CMC needs to do 
Mr N would like CMC to put him back in the position as if the rebase from June to December
2020 hadnt happened. As Ive explained above, CMC had contractual rights to make the
changes they did so I am unable to agree the redress that he has claimed for. I had originally
suggested unwinding his trades to put him back in the position as if he never had invested, 
but given that he has made more in profits than he has incurred in losses, I doubt the idea of
awarding redress based on unwinding all his trades is likely to appeal to him.
Ive already said that when the notification was given on 21st April 2020, Mr N became aware
what the impact was of these changes. I commented that he wouldnt have invested in the
product had he known what was going to happen because it was a specific oil spot cash 
product that he invested in. What obscures this claim a little is that he opened more positions 
on 23 April after knowing about the changes and kept these open until 30 April 2020. His 
decision to continue to invest in this futures product after the changes took effect 
demonstrates he adapted his trading approach. I dont think this has any real bearing on his 
earlier trading decisions which were based on the information he knew at that time so Im not 
necessarily persuaded that there is a conflict here in his motivation for trading. It still seems 
unlikely that he would have invested in this product had he known at that time about these 
changes but that doesnt mean his future trading couldnt be changed. On balance, I am not 
persuaded by his claim to pay him as if the rebase was in June 2020.
Ive not found that CMC was unreasonable in changing the pricing basis for the WTI Spot
product, it was only unreasonable in the way it made those changes. So, I do not find 
grounds to award compensation for the loss of potential profit that Mr N has claimed. As 
explained above, CMC should have given Mr N the option to exit the trades without penalty 
and so I intend to ask CMC to give him a full refund of the holding costs they had charged 
him, and any other relevant charges that were applied, if they have not already done so.
The way in which the changes were made to the oil positions and the uncertainty of it, in
addition to issues with the holding costs added considerable distress and inconvenience to 
Mr N. So, I intend to ask CMC to pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered.
As explained, I dont intend to ask CMC to pay Mr N for loss of profits.My provisional decision
For the reasons give above, I intend to uphold this complaint against CMC Markets UK plc. 
As I understand it, they have already refunded Mr N the holding costs and relevant charges 
that were applied. In the event that this hasnt already been paid, they should pay this.
In addition, they should pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to addendum to my provisional decision
Mr N responded in detail with further information including his April 2020 account statement. 
Whilst I havent noted all of his comments below, Id like to re-assure him that I have 
considered all the information he has provided. I have copied elements of this below to 
address these points specifically.
The unwind of trades referred to in the Ombudsman's interim report I understood to mean 
the 22 trades held at the end of the day on which the scheme change was made; that being 
21 April 2020. Unwinding these trades back to the purchase cost as if the trades didn't exist 
would mean a refund to my account of £29380.70. Add to that the related holding costs of 
£1345.76 increases the refund to £30726.46.
I have never claimed compensation for loss of profit as has been stated in paragraph 5 of 
the Ombudsman response above. The CMC statement attached shows beyond any doubt 
that substantial WTO net losses were incurred. I have claimed that the change in holding 
charges from 23% pa to 225% pa without notice was a radical change and that undermined 
the substance of my understanding of the investment. Never at any time have I requested 
compensation for loss of profit; only recognition of the losses I incurred due the unfairness of 
CMC's shock implementation and radical scheme change without notice.
He also remains unhappy with my intention to award £250 distress and inconvenience 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CMC accept my second provisional decision, but Mr N didnt agree. Hes understood my 
provisional decision to say I intend to unwind his twenty two loss making positions so that he 
would be refunded his losses. This is not what the provisional decision or addendum says. It 
specifically refers to unwinding all his positions not just the loss making ones. Given the 
amount hes made in profits, I can see that this outcome would not be particularly appealing 
to him. 
I appreciate his strength of feelings on this issue, but unwinding only loss making positions 
and allowing Mr N to retain the benefit from profit making positions puts him in advantageous 
position which I dont consider to be fair. So, I have been clear above in explaining that I am 
not upholding Mr Ns complaint about his losses. Any losses incurred as a result of the 
pricing change hasnt been upheld. 
The uphold Ive agreed relates to the way CMC have fundamentally changed the Crude Oil 
West Texas Cash product without notice by moving it to the December futures contract. The 
losses which follow from this are the holding costs and associated charges  these I have 
agreed should be refunded. CMC should calculate the total amount and refund all costs and charges up to and including 21 April 2020 when the notice of change was given and include 
the credit of £504.64 Mr N says has already been refunded.
Mr N also hasnt provided me any further information that would persuade me to make any 
changes to the award for distress and inconvenience. With the information I already have, I 
am also inclined to maintain £250. 
Having reviewed all the evidence hes provided in response to my provisional decision and 
addendum, I dont think Mr N has given me any information that would persuade me to 
change my mind so I dont have anything further to add. As such, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and addendum and make the same findings here.
Putting things right
To put things right CMC should refund in full any holding costs charged up to and including 
21 April 2020, and any other associated charges that were applied, after deduction of 
£504.64 credit for refund already paid. 
In addition, they should pay Mr N £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against CMC 
Markets UK plc.  They should pay Mr N as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman