DRN-3234861
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions from her account that
she didnt recognise and suffered poor customer service.
What happened
 Miss M noticed a payment that she didnt recognise that was made to an online merchant Ill
refer to as J. Miss M contacted J to discuss it and they told her to go to her bank about the
payments.
Miss M contacted Lloyds about the unrecognised transaction and Lloyds advised that there
were several others for the same merchant. Miss M told Lloyds that she hadnt made these
transactions. During her calls to Lloyds, there were occasions when different operators dealt
with the call. When the calls were transferred, Miss M had to repeat her story and repeatedly
go through security because the previous call handlers had failed to brief the current call
handlers with Miss Ms details.
The calls became increasingly heated, ending with Miss M making a complaint about the
service shed received and how Lloyds had dealt with the disputed transactions shed raised
with them. Miss M was told that she would be contacted about her complaint.
A few days later, Miss Ms card was blocked when she was trying to pay for an item. Miss M
hadnt been contacted about her blocked card or the complaint shed raised, and she called
Lloyds to find out what was going on.
Lloyds were able to unblock the card and subsequently explained that the block wasnt
related to the disputed transactions Miss M had raised. Lloyds said that there were
successful transactions after Miss M had first raised the issue, so the block wasnt related to
that.
Lloyds then sent Miss M their final response to her complaint and said that because there
was a refund from J  they considered the matter dealt with, but Lloyds didnt address the
customer service issues. Miss M was unhappy with how it had been handled and brought
her complaint to our service for an independent review.
Miss M provided evidence that the refund from J was unrelated to the disputed transactions
shed told Lloyds about and our investigator contacted Lloyds about it. Lloyds accepted that
Miss M hadnt received a refund from J that was related to the disputed transactions and
agreed to refund them. They also offered £50 for their poor customer service. Miss M
rejected the offer and wanted a significantly higher level of compensation.
Our investigator continued to look into the complaint and issued her report. She
recommended that Lloyds refund the disputed transactions and they increase their level of
compensation to £100 to reflect the stress and inconvenience suffered by her.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators recommendations and thought that Lloyds should
pay her more compensation, whilst Lloyds accepted the investigators recommendations. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have agreed to refund the disputed transactions and pay Miss M £100 for the stress
and inconvenience she suffered. I dont need to deal with the substantive refund because
Lloyds have agreed to repay it. But, Miss Ms own funds were used to make these payments
to J and that meant she was without those funds. That meant that Miss M couldnt use that
money for other things and our service usually recommends an interest payment is added to
the recommendations in such circumstances. I see no reason not to do that here, so Im
intending to instruct Lloyds to add 8% simple interest to the award and this is to be
calculated from the date of the disputed transactions to the date theyre repaid.
Turning to the award that was recommended by our investigator, Ive reviewed the events
that led up to Miss Ms complaint and its apparent that she suffered a poor level of service.
Some of the handovers caused Miss M to repeat her story unnecessarily. Whilst its not
unusual to have to repeat some elements of the story to different teams because of the
different responsibilities of the staff, I think in this case Lloyds could have dealt with Miss Ms
issue with less reliance on Miss M having to continually repeat her story. There was a lack of
understanding about the problem, which was compounded when Lloyds wrote their final
response letter, believing that J had already refunded Miss M.
Miss Ms card was also blocked, which caused her some embarrassment and
inconvenience. I would have expected Lloyds to contact Miss M about the block, to ensure
her account was secure and arrange for either a new card to be sent out or the current one
unblocked. That didnt happen here, it was Miss M who contacted Lloyds several days later
about her card and to ask for an update on her complaint. Lloyds were able to unblock her
card which minimised the ongoing inconvenience for Miss M.
Overall, I think Miss M received poor service from Lloyds, but I also recognise that some of
those calls were heated, which makes dealing with the substantive matter more difficult for
all parties. I dont think Lloyds took overly long to issue their final response, but they didnt
fully address Miss Ms complaints or properly understand the issue with J. This led to
continued stress and inconvenience for Miss M that I think was unnecessary.
So, Im intending to uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds to repay the disputed
transactions, add 8% simple interest from the date of the transactions to the date theyre
repaid and pay Miss M £200 for the stress and inconvenience this caused to her.
I invited Miss M and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties responded, accepting my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.Putting things right
Lloyds are instructed to repay the disputed transactions, add 8% simple interest from the 
date of the transactions to the date theyre repaid and pay Miss M £200 for the stress and 
inconvenience this caused to her.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund the disputed transactions which total £31.96.
Pay 8% simple interest from the date of the transactions to the date of repayment. If 
Lloyds considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Miss M £200 for the stress and inconvenience she suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman