DRN-3501931
The complaint
Mr A complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC wouldnt finance the purchase of his proposed new 
home, under a Home Purchase Plan (HPP) because of risks identified in a coal mining 
report. He didnt think Al Rayan was right, and he wanted it to pay him back fees hed paid
What happened
Mr A found a house he wanted to buy, and he received an offer from Al Rayan to help him 
finance this purchase. But he said that when he started to buy the house, Al Rayan changed 
its mind. It said that the house wasnt suitable, on the basis of concerns identified in a coal 
mining report. Mr A said he had reports which made it clear that the property wasnt at risk of 
subsidence, but Al Rayan wouldnt change its mind. Mr A said it wasnt interested in any 
opinion other than its own. 
Mr A said he lost money through costs hed paid for the purchase, which then fell through. 
He didnt think Al Rayan should be able to punish purchasers like this. He wanted the fees 
hed paid back. 
Al Rayan said that Mr A applied for an HPP. He paid an application fee of £499 and a basic 
valuation fee of £247. An offer letter was issued to him.
Then, during the conveyancing process, Al Rayan said that there was a cause for concern 
with the property based on local coal mining reports. Al Rayan referred that to a surveyor for 
advice, and he said that the property couldnt be considered suitable security, because the 
position of a mineshaft entry could not be accurately determined.
Al Rayan said it just couldnt consider going ahead with the HPP on this house. It said that if 
anything did happen, then it wouldnt be insured if it had gone ahead against the advice of 
the surveyor it had instructed. It also thought that Mr A might have problems selling the 
house in future. It said that these issues wouldnt have been picked up sooner, because the 
searches which brought this problem to light are only done by solicitors during the 
conveyancing process.
Al Rayan said the fees it had charged Mr A for the application werent refundable. But 
despite that, it had paid back the application and valuation fee which he had paid at 
application. It wouldnt also reimburse Mr A for his legal fees.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could understand 
why Mr A was so disappointed, but we could only look at what Al Rayan had done in this 
case. It had asked an independent surveyor for advice, and then it relied on that advice. It 
decided that the property represented too big a risk for it to help with the financing. 
Our investigator said that Al Rayan was entitled to decide not to proceed in this case. He 
also said that Al Rayan had refunded all the fees Mr A had paid to it, although it didnt have 
to do that. He didnt feel it would be appropriate to ask Al Rayan to cover Mr As legal fees 
too. He said the solicitors work is what uncovered the issue. And that then led to the 
decision that the property wasnt suitable security, in the professional opinion of the 
surveyors Al Rayan had instructed.
Our investigator said he wouldnt ask Al Rayan to do any more.
Mr A didnt agree. He said if other banks could lend on this property, then he felt that he was 
being punished by Al Rayan. And he said he wanted fees hed paid to the estate agent 
refunded as well as his legal costs. Mr A wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, 
so it came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr A said he felt our investigator wasnt approaching this fairly, and he wanted to send 
further information in to someone else at our service. Our investigator explained that once a 
case is passed to an ombudsman, then that investigator wont have any further role in 
commenting on the evidence. But he would still be responsible for making sure all the 
evidence reaches me. So our investigator asked Mr A to send him anything that he wanted 
me to see, and he gave Mr A a clear deadline for doing that. The deadline our investigator 
gave has now passed. Nothing further has been received, and I think I have sufficient 
information to decide this case.
I understand that its very disappointing when a house purchase falls through. It often also 
leaves the prospective buyer out of pocket. I do know how deeply upsetting that can be. But 
there can be many reasons why that can happen. And our service can only look here at the 
actions of Al Rayan. So unless I can see that the problem here is something that Al Rayan 
has done wrong, our service wont be able to help.
When Al Rayan makes a commitment to finance a house purchase, it has to assess whether 
that property is suitable security. Ive no reason to think Mr A may have such problems, but 
Al Rayan will always check, in case a purchaser has problems with payment in the future, 
whether it can sell the property to cover any losses. 
And Al Rayan isnt an expert on property resale values. So its reasonable for Al Rayan to 
rely on expert reports when it decides whether to help finance a purchase.
Not all of the detailed information about a property is available before Al Rayan makes an 
offer to help finance a purchase. Thats why that offer is subject to conditions, which let Al 
Rayan take account of any revised valuation, and which also allow it to make its own 
assessment of all the things which are uncovered in property searches carried out by the 
solicitors.
I can see that Al Rayan instructed a chartered surveyor who is appropriately professionally 
qualified and a member of the recognised professional body. And when it was notified by 
solicitors that searches had shown old mine workings in the vicinity of the property, it asked 
this surveyor for his view. 
Mr A said that the reports hed received say that theres no risk to the property. Ive checked 
the reports, and the mine entry report does say that. But the surveyor pointed out that this 
report also says that the mine entry might not be where the report suggests it is. It could even be under the house itself. So the surveyor says that properties this close to a disused 
mine shaft are not suitable for mortgage purposes. 
Al Rayan relied on that expert opinion, and said it wouldnt go ahead with Mr As HPP. And 
its explained to us the risk it runs if it ignores this expert advice. I think it was reasonable for 
Al Rayan to say it wouldnt go ahead here, and I also think that it acted within the terms of 
the offer made to Mr A, when it said this. 
Mr A has told us that he has incurred solicitors costs and estate agent fees, and he wanted 
this money back. He said he shouldnt be punished because of someones opinion, and he 
said other banks would lend on properties which were closer to the plotted location of the 
mine shaft. So he didnt think he should be out of pocket because of this. 
Ive explained I can only look at what Al Rayan has done. And I think that Al Rayan has 
made a decision here on the risk its prepared to run, in financing a purchase. 
Other banks may reach a different view. Each bank has its own risk appetite, and makes its 
decisions accordingly. There are lots of different factors in a decision like this, and in the first 
instance, its for each bank to weigh those up. So, just because Al Rayan has reached a 
particular view, and other banks say something different, that doesnt mean that Al Rayan 
must be wrong. 
I should also say Ive not seen anything at all to suggest to me that Al Rayan sought to 
punish Mr A here. Its refunded fees which Mr A has paid, even though its offer made clear 
that these werent refundable. I dont think Al Rayan also has to cover Mr As legal and 
estate agent costs too.
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman