DRN-2848555
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds (Soteria) decision to settle a third-party 
claim under her car insurance. Shes also unhappy her no claims discount has been 
reduced. 
What happened
Mrs L received notification from Soteria to say a third-party, in this case  her neighbour, 
was claiming she had hit their car. Soteria then investigated and settled the third-partys 
claim. Mrs L wasnt happy with their decision as well as the impact on her No Claims 
Discount (NCD) so she complained. 
Soteria responded and said a consistency review was completed on Mrs Ls car and the 
third-partys car, and the damage was found to be consistent with the incident circumstances 
alleged by the third-party. Soteria said, as there was no other explanation for the damage, if 
this went to court, then Soteria wouldnt have been able to defend it. Soteria said, as insurer, 
they have conduct of the claim and will attempt to settle it on the best terms possible. They 
explained, as there were no independent witnesses or CCTV to prove otherwise, they 
believe the correct liability decision was made. Soteria said they had settled the claim on a 
without prejudice basis which meant they hadnt prejudiced Mrs Ls position to take further 
action should she want to independently dispute this. 
Soteria also explained, as Mrs Ls NCD wasnt protected, the claim correctly resulted in the 
reduction of her NCD in line with the policy terms and conditions.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L. He thought Soteria hadnt acted unfairly in 
settling the claim. Mrs L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mrs Ls car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says she is covered for damage to a third partys car. It also says, under the 
heading Conditions, We will be entitled to the full conduct and control of the defence or 
settlement of any claim from a third party So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Soteria  
to make a decision on the claim as the policy allows them to take such steps. That said, the 
reason why they settled it was because they felt there wasnt a strong defence to the claim. 
So, I will now consider whether Soteria acted fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Soteria did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Soteria to rely on 
the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Soteria instructed an 
independent engineer to carry out a full inspection of Mrs Ls car. The engineers report 
comments on damage to Mrs Ls car. The report says the purpose of his inspection is to 
examine Mrs Ls car for alleged damage consistent with the car having been involved in an 
accident. The engineer says hes been advised that the area in question was to the right 
front of the car. The engineer then says [Mrs Ls car] has suffered a glancing blow, the point 
of impact is shown in the above diagram. The diagram shows the area of damage being to 
the right front bumper. 
Mrs L claims the damage to the third-partys car was pre-existing, so the independent 
engineers report is sent to Soterias in-house engineer to complete a consistency report. 
The in-house engineer says, as well as noting the damage to Mrs Ls car, he also looked at 
the total loss report and photos of the third-partys car and noted damage to the passenger 
side quarter panel and rear bumper. He says, the images suggest the third-partys car has 
suffered a glancing blow. The in-house engineer says [Mrs Ls car] does have damage in 
the alleged area in question (drivers side front), both vehicles do have damage that could be 
consistent with that of the same impact Soteria then write to Mrs L and say, having looked 
at all available information, theyve decided to settle the claim being made against her.      
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car so it was reasonable for Soteria to 
take into account the independent engineers, and their in-house engineers, findings to 
assist their decision on whether to settle the claim. The report from the independent 
engineer shows they inspected Mrs Ls car and the in-house engineer also considered the 
information relating to the damage to the third-partys car. I think the information theyve 
considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to then form an opinion. So, taking 
this into account, I cant say Soteria have acted unfairly in relying on both engineers findings 
to assess whether they have a strong defence to the claim. And, nothing I have seen 
challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of both engineers. 
I understand Mrs L maintains the incident didnt take place and she wasnt at home at the 
time the third-party claims the incident happened. I should stress, its not my role to assess 
liability and determine whether the incident happened in the way the third-party alleges. My 
role is to decide whether Soteria have acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the claim. 
Given the steps Soteria take to investigate the claim and the findings made by experts, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Soteria to settle the claim. 
I note Mrs Ls frustrations, particularly as she says no incident took place. Situations like this 
do arise so its important for any insurer, when faced with this, to carry out detailed 
investigations to find out what happened and look for any independent evidence when 
forming a view. The opinion from the first expert does provide independent evidence which 
supports the third-partys claim. I dont feel it was therefore unreasonable for Soteria to take 
this into consideration when forming their view on liability. 
No claims discount 
Mrs L says, at the point she took out her policy with Soteria, her NCD was 11 years. This 
then reduced down to three years after this incident. While most insurers I'm aware of will 
apply NCD when offering policies and calculating premiums, NCD is, generally, a matter 
thats at the discretion of the particular insurer involved. The insurer can decide whether it 
wishes to apply an NCD and what benefits that will give to the customer. And those are 
decisions each insurer is allowed to make for itself. So, theres no automatic entitlement to a 
certain level of NCD. 
Most insurers have a maximum amount of years NCD that theyll take account of. In this 
case, the policy documents show the maximum Soteria take into account is five years for a 
new customer. Its essentially a matter of commercial judgement, balancing the need to 
attract and retain customers against the desire to make a profit. And, generally thats not 
something we think its fair to interfere with. Mrs L didnt protect her NCD and the policy documents show a table which sets out how  
Mrs Ls NCD will reduce in the event of a claim. This shows it will reduce down to three 
years. So, I cant say Soteria have acted unfairly here. There has been a fault claim and the 
NCD reduced in line with the terms and conditions. 
Delay in sending an engineer 
I understand Mrs L is concerned Soteria sent an engineer eight months after the alleged 
incident took place. And, she questions how they are able to make an accurate decision 
after so much time has passed. 
I can see Soteria are notified of the claim in February 2020 by the third-party insurers who 
claim the incident happened in January. Soteria write to Mrs L and ask her to confirm 
whether she is aware of the incident and if shes intending to claim for damage to her own 
car. Mrs L then confirms she wasnt involved in an incident. Soteria then ask the third-party 
insurer to substantiate their claim. They dont hear back, so Soteria then close their file. The 
third-party insurer then emails Soteria at the end of July with a letter before legal action and 
setting out their outlay for settling their insureds claim. Then in August, the third-party 
insurer send Soteria a copy of the total loss report and photos showing the damage to their 
insureds car. On the same day, Soteria then arrange for an inspection of Mrs Ls car to take 
place as she denies involvement. The engineer then inspects Mrs Ls car on 7 September.         
I understand Mrs Ls concern about the time taken but, while there was a period of inactivity, 
I cant say this was down to any error by Soteria. They ask the third-party insurer to prove 
their claim and, having not heard back, they close their file. It wasnt therefore unreasonable 
for Soteria to hold off from arranging an engineer inspection during this time as, from the 
lack of response, I wouldnt expect them to make those arrangements. 
So, I think Soteria reached their decision on the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. I 
dont think it was unfair for them to accept fault for the claim given the evidence they took 
into consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman