DRN-4183109
The complaint
Mr T complains about the level of charges that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
applied to his account when he used his debit card to pay for his wifes (Mrs T) hospital 
bills while on holiday abroad. He says he was told he would be provided with a refund if he 
let Halifaxs head office know of the circumstances but on doing so, he never got a reply.
What happened
While Mr T and Mrs T were abroad on holiday, Mrs T became unwell and on the advice of a 
doctor from where they were staying, she was sent to hospital and stayed for around five 
days. Mr and Mrs T were not able to leave the hospital and return to the UK until the hospital 
bill was settled. Mr T had travel insurance and kept the insurer informed. The insurer asked 
for all documentation but because it was during the Christmas period, they were unable to 
get all the receipts needed for the insurance to pay out until after the Christmas holiday and 
on their return to the UK  so Mr T elected to pay the hospital bills with his Halifax debit card.
On return to the UK Mr T discovered he had paid a total of £429.78 in non-GB fee transfer 
and purchase fees during the period he was away.
Mr T complained about this to Halifax and was told to contact its head office and explain the 
circumstances and it would issue a refund. Halifax didnt refund the charges or uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Halifax says its conditions state that fees apply if you use your debit card abroad 
and in this case all fees were applied correctly in line with this and that no error had been 
made on its behalf. It did however recognise the trouble and upset caused by the poor 
customer service Mr T received from its branch and offered £60 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
Mr T was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr T concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
had applied the charges fairly in-line with the conditions of the account and hadnt done 
anything wrong.  They thought the £60 compensation offered was a fair way to settle the 
complaint and didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more.
Mr T disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr T has experienced and see if Halifax has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr T back in the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is regarding the charges Halifax applied when he used his debit 
card abroad. I understand that Mr and Mrs T found themselves in a very difficult - and no 
doubt worrying situation - when Mrs T became unwell abroad. And I can completely 
understand why Mr T wanted Mrs T looked after properly and to return to the UK quickly and 
to do so he decided (and this is key) to use his Halifax debit card to pay medical and other 
related bills. As a result of this decision, charges were applied for the use of his debit card 
abroad amounting to £429.78.
Halifaxs terms and conditions say that fees apply if you use your debit card to withdraw 
cash in a foreign currency or outside the UK, or buy goods or services in a foreign currency. 
And as Mr T used his debit card abroad, Halifax charged him for it. So I cant say that Halifax 
did anything wrong here. Understandably Mr T is unhappy at the amount of charges applied, 
but ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision and it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. So I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when it charged 
for the use of Mr Ts debit card abroad as the terms and conditions allowed for it to do this.
However, I do agree that the customer service Mr T received on return from his trip wasnt 
as good as it shouldve been and that Mr T was inconvenienced by Halifax not being able to 
deal with his complaint at the first point of call in branch. I can see that Halifax has already 
apologised and compensated Mr T £60 for this which I think is a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation for the inconvenience this caused. So that being the case Im not going to 
ask Halifax to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman