DRN-3655142
The complaint
C is a limited company. C complains Acasta European Insurance Company Limited hasnt 
treated it fairly after it made a claim on its building warranty policy.
C is represented by its sole director, Mr H.
What happened
C owns an apartment. There are seven apartments in the block. Three are owned by the 
freeholder, and the other four are owned by leaseholders (such as C). Each apartment is 
covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. Three of the four leaseholders are Mrs D, 
Mr B, and C.
Mrs D, Mr B, C, and the freeholder have made various claims for defects and water ingress. 
Mrs D, Mr B, and C have been jointly represented during the claims by a solicitor, and they 
have each brought a complaint to our service. Mrs Ds complaint and Mr Bs complaint are 
being considered under separate cases.
The claims are being handled by the policy administrator, Global Home Warranties Limited, 
and its appointed loss adjuster. However, the cover is underwritten by Acasta, so its 
responsible for the claims and this complaint.
Ill now set out a broad timeline of events, based on the correspondence Ive seen between 
the various parties involved and their submissions:
- In April 2019, the first claim at the building was made by Mrs D. The claim was for 
her leaking roof/terrace. She provided a surveyors report to support her claim. 
Acasta arranged for the original builder to carry out repairs at its own cost.
- In November 2019, Mr B claimed for his leaking roof/terrace, and defective windows 
and doors. He also provided a surveyors report. Acasta approved a contractor to 
carry out repairs to his roof/terrace.
- In January 2020, Mrs D made a further claim for her roof/terrace. She was initially 
referred back to the original builder, but her claim was later accepted.
- In March 2020, C made a claim for its leaking roof/terrace, defective windows and 
doors, and cracking to the external walls. 
- In April 2020, the contractor undertaking the repairs at Mr Bs property discovered 
more extensive damage and recommended a structural survey and movement 
monitoring.
- In May 2020, Mrs D made a claim for a leak from her bathroom into Cs apartment 
below. The claim was declined at the time. Mrs D also made a claim for drainage 
issues on her terrace and for cracking to the external walls.
- In September 2020, Mrs Ds claim for the drainage issues was declined, and she was 
told she would need to provide a report for the cracking.
- In October 2020, the freeholder commissioned a report on the structural issues and 
cracking. The report was by an engineering firm, who Ill refer to as M.
- In November 2020, the freeholder made a claim for the structural damage, and the 
other claims were put on hold.
- M made seven recommendations: 1) the building should be made weathertight whilst 
investigations continue; 2) crack monitoring to assess movement; 3) a survey of the 
current cracking; 4) drawings for the building should be obtained; 5) an assessment 
of the influence of nearby trees, and the foundations reviewed for adequacy; 6) 
further investigations dependent on the drawings; and 7) a CCTV survey of the 
below-ground drainage. Acasta authorised the investigations to proceed.
- In March 2021, M issued an updated report to the freeholder. M set out the following: 
the crack monitoring had started in December 2020; further drawings were required; 
the assessment of nearby trees and the foundations had been carried out, but the 
pre-build geotechnical report was required along with further foundation 
investigations; and the drainage survey was still outstanding.
- In June 2021, the freeholder passed on Ms updated report and comments to the loss 
adjuster, and it asked for agreement on the recommended actions. The loss adjuster 
questioned the type of crack monitoring being undertaken, whilst M noted a lack of 
contact and progress being made by the freeholder. M withdrew from the project 
citing ill health and frustration with the lack of progress.
- In July 2021, the freeholder appointed a replacement engineering firm, who Ill refer 
to as S. Mr B also made a claim for leaks to the main roof and skylight. Unhappy 
with the progress being made on the claims, Mrs D, Mr B, and C also made a 
complaint to Acasta.
- In September 2021, S made six recommendations in a report to the freeholder. The 
recommendations were similar to those made by M, but they included 12 months of 
level monitoring (which had been started in August 2021), and an investigation into 
the adequacy of the wall ties (with significant concerns raised).
- In November 2021, S wrote to the freeholder noting four of the six recommendations 
had yet to commence, and it raised significant concerns about the lateral stability of 
all the outer leaf brickwork. S reiterated the outstanding recommendations and 
urgency.
Acasta provided a final response to Cs complaint on 14 December 2021. Acasta noted it 
had accepted liability for the ongoing claims. Acasta offered Mr H £200 compensation for 
the claim delays, and to consider his legal fees on receipt of the invoices. Mr H remained 
unhappy, so he referred Cs complaint to our service. 
In March 2022, S explained the structural defects are generally built in, rather than related to 
ground movement. Due to uncertainty about the condition and adequacy of the timber frame, 
S questioned the viability of carrying out a major programme of structural remedial works to 
restore structural integrity. S said the building isnt considered to be fit for purpose and 
consideration should be given to a demolition and re-build.In August 2022, one of our investigators considered Cs complaint. She said she could only 
consider matters up to 14 December 2021 (the date of Acastas final response), and if Mr H 
was unhappy about events since then, C would have to make a new complaint to Acasta. 
For the period our investigator was considering, she thought there were some delays and a 
lack of timely updates. However, she didnt think C, a limited company, could have suffered 
distress and inconvenience. In respect of Cs financial loss, she noted the policy doesnt 
cover loss of rent, and in any event, she didnt consider the property to be uninhabitable. 
She thought Acastas offer to consider Cs legal fees was fair and reasonable.
Acasta agreed with our investigators findings. But because Mr H disagreed, Cs complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.  Ill summarise the points Mr H made in response to our 
investigators findings:
- In view of the claims made at the building, it was obvious from the outset that there 
were serious structural issues. Acasta has caused unreasonable delays during the 
past two and half years. Despite the dire state of the building, and the reports and 
investigations, no action has been taken over a dangerously long period of time.
- Cs property is unrentable. Acasta was aware of leaks throughout the building. This 
includes the leaks from Mrs Ds bathroom into Cs bedroom and kitchen (and later 
the hallway and lounge). There were ongoing electrical issues due to the water 
ingress, and mis-functioning windows throughout the apartment (resulting in 
inadequate sound proofing, draft exclusion, and water tightness).
- Between April and October 2020, the leaseholders notified Acasta of widespread 
cracking to the brick faade. However, no action was taken by Acasta until the 
freeholder engaged M.
- It wasnt made clear what issues Acasta would and wouldnt be considering under 
the policy.
- M fitted a series of crack monitoring devices, but no readings were taken to continue 
the monitoring exercise. So, between October 2020 and September 2021 limited 
progress was made. 
- The monitoring was abandoned leaving no alternative but to repeat the monitoring 
exercise. Ss September 2021 recommendations were almost identical to Ms 
recommendations eleven months earlier.
- Also, the drawings for the property werent obtained, which could have led to an 
understanding of the defects, and the conclusion the building needs to be 
demolished, much sooner.
- Limited progress continued between September 2021 and November 2021, when S 
issued a letter confirming as much.
- In March 2022, S concluded the building isnt fit for purpose, and there are no viable 
remedial works that would restore its stability and integrity. Acasta is yet to provide 
an update, despite being chased weekly.
- C has incurred costs due to engaging a solicitor, and a surveyor via the solicitor. C 
has also suffered a loss of rent and incurred additional ATED charges (annual tax 
on enveloped dwellings). Mr H and C have also suffered financial damages, given 
the property is currently worthless.- C had a tenancy agreement in place for 1 March 2020. This was for £3,000 per 
month. However, the intention after three months was to let the apartment as a 
holiday rental, likely attaining £10,500 per month. Therefore, C has lost £9,000 
between March and May 2020, and a further £283,500 in the 27 months that 
followed. So, £292,500 to date, with losses continuing to accrue.
- C has been charged £3,750 per annum ATED due to non-occupancy. This amounts 
to a further £11,250.
- C has incurred legal costs in excess of £70,000 to date.
- Acasta has caused unreasonable delays of about 30 months since Cs initial claim. 
Mr H noted the impact on him in respect of his time, and the anxiety caused by the 
uncertainty and possible financial ruin.
In October 2022, Mrs D and Mr B provided our service with an update. They explained 
Acasta doesnt accept the findings of S, and it has suggested an independent report be 
carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of this final decision
As explained by our investigator, this case is only covering up to the date of Acastas final 
response (14 December 2021). Acasta has to be given the opportunity to respond to a 
complaint about events after that date before our service can become involved.
If C has since made a further complaint to Acasta, or if C goes on to do so, Acasta will need 
to consider events since 14 December 2021 when responding. C can then return to us if it 
doesnt receive a final response from Acasta within eight weeks of when it made its 
complaint, or if Mr H is unhappy with Acastas final response
Based on Mr Hs submissions, Im mindful Cs claimed losses might exceed our award limits. 
Therefore, C may wish to obtain independent legal advice before deciding whether to pursue 
a further complaint through our service, and equally, before deciding whether to accept my 
final decision on the complaint Im considering here. If C accepts a final decision from our 
service, it might not be able to go to court to ask for more compensation.
April 2019 to April 2020
I understand Mr Hs frustration that the potential for structural defects wasnt identified until 
April 2020, and the issue with the wall ties until September 2021. However, I havent seen 
Acasta responded inappropriately to the initial claims made at the building by Mrs D and 
Mr B, or to the two surveys they provided. Neither of those surveys pointed towards 
structural issues.
C made its initial claim in March 2020. Email exchanges between Mr H and the loss adjuster 
took place up to May 2020. In May 2020, the loss adjuster confirmed he had now submitted 
his report to Acasta and was waiting for further instruction.So, overall, Im not persuaded Acasta caused delays, or acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
between April 2019 and April 2020.
May 2020 to October 2020
In April 2020, the contractor carrying out the repairs to Mr Bs roof/terrace emailed Global 
and recommended a structural survey and movement monitoring. In June 2020, the loss 
adjuster said he didnt have any concerns about the work progressing as there was only 
minor cracking. As such, it took the loss adjuster about seven weeks to respond to the 
contractors concerns (although I understand from the submissions that Covid related 
restrictions meant the works had stopped during this period anyway). 
The works at Mr Bs apartment didnt restart in June 2020 because he was concerned about 
them going ahead without an understanding of the structural defects, and how they might 
affect the work being carried out. 
Ive seen that between July and October 2020, Mrs D, Mr B, and C were all chasing the loss 
adjuster and/or Global for responses to their communications, and for updates on the claims 
relating to roofs/terraces, cracking, and windows and doors. 
I understand in September 2020, the loss adjuster told the leaseholders and the freeholder a 
report would be required on the cracking. The freeholder went on to commission a report by 
M, who visited on 9 October 2020.
So, there were about five months between May and September 2020, until a clear message 
was given about the next steps in respect of the cracking and wider structural concerns. Ive 
not seen Acasta progressed matters in a meaningful way during that period, and based on 
the correspondence Ive seen, the lack of communication was unreasonable.
November 2020 to December 2021
M was appointed by the freeholder to support the claim(s) for the structural cracking. Delays 
then followed because the freeholder didnt pass on Ms updated report to the loss adjuster 
for two and half months, and the freeholder was struggling to appoint a firm for the soil 
investigations. However, those circumstances arent something Acasta can be held 
responsible for.
In June 2021, when the loss adjuster received Ms updated report, he questioned the type of 
monitoring being carried out. He highlighted that the installed equipment (tell-tales) wouldnt 
identify heave, and level monitoring was more appropriate. Notably, S recommended level 
monitoring too. He also asked if any readings had been taken from the tell tales. M said no 
readings had been received yet. As such, Im persuaded there were delays caused by the 
wrong type of monitoring being undertaken, and in any event, readings not being taken. 
Those circumstances arent something Acasta can be held responsible for either.
The loss adjuster asked when the next tell-tale readings would be taken, and the timescales 
for the internal site investigation. M explained it had now removed itself from the project due 
to health reasons and frustration with the lack of progress. M said the questions needed to 
be directed at the freeholder, as it was the freeholder dictating the timeline. Ms departure 
caused a further delay until July 2021, when S was appointed. Acasta cant be held 
responsible for the delay caused by Ms decision to no longer be involved. In September 2021, S made six recommendations in a report provided to the freeholder, and 
in November 2021, S wrote to the freeholder noting four of the six recommendations had yet 
to commence. As I understand it, those actions were with the freeholder. I havent seen the 
freeholder was waiting on Acasta, or Acasta was delaying the freeholder from carrying out 
Ss recommendations. So, Im also not persuaded Acasta can be held responsible for the 
lack of progress between September and November 2021.
Ultimately, in November 2020, the leaseholders claims were all put on hold whilst the wider 
structural concerns were investigated by the freeholder. It follows that any remedial work or 
claim decisions would need to wait for the results of those investigations, as the structural 
defects are likely to have a bearing on those matters. 
Arguably, Acasta could have taken a more hands-on role in the freeholders investigations to 
ensure the right investigations were being carried out and progressed promptly. But overall, 
given the freeholder is responsible for the building, I dont consider it unreasonable the 
emphasis was placed on the freeholder to investigate the structural issues in the first 
instance.
I also note that when the loss adjuster became aware of the delays with the investigations in 
June 2021, he tried to assist. He clarified the type of crack monitoring that was needed and 
suggested a firm for the level monitoring and soil investigations. He also tried to assist the 
freeholders appointment of a replacement engineer, by recommending S.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Acasta can reasonably be held responsible for the delays that 
occurred between November 2020 and December 2021.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I dont doubt the impact the situation has had, and continues to have, on Mr H. However, Im 
only considering Acastas responsibilities and actions as the insurer (and only for the period 
of April 2020 to 14 December 2021)  and only the impact on C.
Importantly, Acasta didnt cause the building defects and its not responsible for the actions 
of the builder that built the building. Equally, much of the claim delay during the period Im 
considering was due to necessary investigations that were under the control of the 
freeholder.
As explained above, between April 2020 and 14 December 2021, Ive seen there were about 
five months of delay for which Acasta can reasonably be held responsible for (and that was 
between May and September 2020).
However, C is a limited company, which is a separate legal entity to Mr H. Our investigator 
was correct when she said C cant experience distress, pain, or suffering. Whilst Mr H can 
experience those things, he isnt the policyholder or complainant, so I cant consider the 
impact of the five-month delay on him. 
Our investigator was mistaken when she said C couldnt experience inconvenience. But Ive 
not seen anything that suggests C was inconvenienced due to the five-month delay. For 
example, Ive not seen C was impacted in any way due to Mr H having to spend time 
chasing Acasta.Compensation for financial loss
C bought the apartment on 31 January 2020. Mr H has provided a signed 12-month tenancy 
agreement that was due to commence on 1 March 2020. He says the intention was to end 
the tenancy agreement after three months, and to market the apartment as a holiday let. 
Mr H says the damage at Cs apartment prevented the tenant from moving in. He also says 
a friend has since been staying in the apartment rent free, for security reasons and to keep 
an eye on the issues. Mr H would like Cs loss of rent to be compensated.
The policy doesnt cover a loss of rent. However, if Cs apartment was uninhabitable as a 
result of a claim and Acasta unreasonably delayed that claim, then theres an argument 
Acasta should be liable for any financial losses that result from not being able to let the 
apartment for a period equal to the delays. 
As set out above, I havent seen Acasta progressed matters in a meaningful way for about 
five months between May and September 2020. As such, Ive considered whether Acasta 
should cover five months of lost rent. When doing so, Ive kept in mind two claims were 
made before September 2020 that impacted Cs apartment  the claim C made in 
March 2020, and the claim Mrs D made in May 2020.
Im not persuaded the issues that formed part of Cs March 2020 claim meant the apartment 
was uninhabitable. The claim form noted the roof terrace wasnt draining properly; some 
cracking and damp on external walls; and poor functioning windows. 
Ive also reviewed the photos Mr H sent to the loss adjuster in support of the claim and Ms 
October 2020 report. In my view, that information also doesnt show the apartment was 
uninhabitable due to the March 2020 claim issues. 
In any event, the decision not to honour the signed tenancy agreement was made before the 
delays in question. So, those delays clearly werent the reason why C lost out on that rental 
income. 
Therefore, whilst I accept Acasta unreasonably delayed Cs March 2020 claim between May 
and September 2020, Im not persuaded I can reasonably decide Acasta should cover five 
months lost rent due to those delays.
Mrs Ds May 2020 claim form noted water was leaking from her bathroom into Cs bedroom. 
Global declined the claim on the date it was received, on the basis the building warranty 
policy doesnt cover such issues.
I understand from Ms October 2020 report and Mr Hs submissions that the leak had caused 
damage to the bedroom and kitchen ceilings between May and September 2020, with some 
of the kitchen ceiling being opened up for investigations during that time.
It may well be that the leak from Mrs Ds bathroom was prematurely declined if it was caused 
by structural issues (and Ill comment on the need for Acasta to revisit previous declinatures 
under the next heading). However, once the claim was declined, it was for the leaseholders 
and/or freeholder to repair the leak and damage, or for them to show something covered by 
the policy had caused the problem. Ive not seen this claim was pursued between May and 
September 2020, following the declinature. So, Im not persuaded Acasta is responsible if 
the leak or resulting damage wasnt repaired, or if C wasnt able to let the apartment as a 
consequence. Therefore, Im also not persuaded I can reasonably decide Acasta should 
cover five months lost rent due to this claim.Mr H says C has incurred additional tax charges due to the apartment being unoccupied. But 
it follows that I dont consider Acasta is responsible for such costs, given Im not persuaded 
the property was uninhabitable during Acastas delays.
In respect of Mr Hs and/or Cs legal fees, I find Acastas offer to consider those costs on 
receipt of the invoices to be fair and reasonable. Mr H can make a further complaint on 
behalf of C if hes unhappy with Acastas response to those invoices.
Mr H has referred to a surveyor being engaged by the jointly appointed solicitor. Its not clear 
which surveyor or report hes referring to, but Ill cover survey costs under the next heading.
Other issues
If C has raised a further complaint for events since 14 December 2021, Acasta needs to 
respond if it hasnt yet done so.
Acasta also needs to provide Mr H with a decision about Cs claims and explain its intended 
method of settlement. I wont comment on whether its reasonable for Acasta to carry out or 
commission further investigations first, because that matter will need to be considered as 
part of a further complaint.
It follows that Acasta will need to be clear about the following points when communicating its 
decision on the various claims:
- Liability  its not clear from the submissions which claims Acasta has accepted and 
which it has declined. Acastas final response to the leaseholders notes the claims 
have been accepted. But given the uncertainty expressed by the leaseholders, 
Acasta needs to provide clarification to them, giving reasons if any issues are 
declined. Acasta should revisit the previous declinatures, bearing in mind the 
structural issues that have since come to light.
- Excesses  I havent seen Acasta has been clear about how the policy excess is to 
be applied. Acasta will need to set out how it intends to apply the policy excess to 
each of the accepted claims, bearing in mind the policy terms and whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
- Survey costs (since April 2019)  Acasta needs to confirm which survey costs, if any, 
its covering. If Acasta isnt covering certain costs, it should explain why.
If Mr H doesnt consider Acasta is clear about those points when communicating the claim 
decisions, or if hes unhappy with what Acasta decides, he can raise a further complaint on 
Cs behalf.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman