DRN-1748449
The complaint
Ms S complains that Allay Claims Ltd charged her a fee for pursing a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim on her behalf.
What happened
Ms S submitted a request for Allay to complete a free PPI check for her online. Allay sent  
Ms S documents for her to sign and return in the post. Ms S didnt return the paperwork.
A few weeks later, Allay told Ms S it could make a claim for PPI against a lender, but it 
needed her to return a paper copy of the letter of authority (LOA) to progress her claim. 
Shortly after this, Allay sent Ms S a text asking her to verify some details via a link so that 
her claim against the lender could be submitted. Ms S says she didnt return the LOA or click 
on the link. 
Several weeks later Ms S noticed that the lender had deposited a payment in her bank 
account. When she queried it, the lender told her it was her PPI refund and sent her a letter 
which confirmed this.
Shortly after this, Ms S began to receive phone calls, texts and emails from Allay asking her 
to pay its fee for her successful PPI claim. Ms S disputed owing the fee. She said Allay had 
told her it wouldnt be able to proceed with the complaint unless it received a hard copy of 
the LOA signed by her. She hadnt sent the form, so she didnt think she needed to pay 
Allay.
Allay continued to pursue Ms S for the fee and told her it would be taking court action 
against her. Ms S complained to Allay. She was unhappy that it was pursuing her for the fee 
because she didnt believe shed given Allay authority to make a claim on her behalf. 
Allay said that Ms S had signed a LOA online in January 2019.  She had also completed a 
questionnaire via an email link for it to submit her claim. It said it didnt require the hard 
copies of the documents to pursue her claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2020 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Ms Ss complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. But I dont think its fair for Allay to charge Ms S its fee. Ill 
explain why.
Both sides agree that Ms S submitted an enquiry for a free PPI check to Allay in January 
2019.Allay says that Ms S agreed to its terms of engagement when she submitted the enquiry and 
these say that once PPI is identified, if not cancelled, the complaint is automatically 
submitted to the lender after 14 days. Its provided a copy of the electronic LOA it says Ms S 
agreed to, which includes its terms of engagement.
The terms of engagement include the wording we will carry out a free PPI check. We will 
notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender following 
your instruction. Your instruction can be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, 
submitting the Claim Questionnaire online or over the telephone with Allay.
They go on to say: from the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off 
period during which you can cancel your contract with us.
So, I dont agree that the terms of engagement gave Allay authority to submit the complaint 
to the lender if she didnt cancel within 14 days of PPI being identified. The terms of 
engagement actually say that Ms S needed to instruct Allay to submit the complaint. This 
involved her completing the claim questionnaire by post, online or over the phone.
Ms S says she didnt complete any of the paperwork it sent her because she didnt want 
Allay to go ahead with the claim. Allay says Ms S completed the questionnaire online in 
March 2019. But the IP address its provided to support this, is different to the IP address  
Ms S used for her initial PPI check. Ms S is certain that she didnt instruct Allay to pursue her 
claim and Im persuaded by what she says. So, on balance, I dont think Ms S is likely to 
have given Allay authority to pursue her PPI claim.
Given that Allay didnt have authority to pursue Ms Ss PPI claim on her behalf, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge her a fee. Im also mindful that Ms S experienced distress and 
frustration because Allay pursued her for this and threatened her with court action. So, I 
intend to award Ms S an additional £100 for trouble and upset. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments 
before I made my final decision
responses
Allay sent a copy of data to show that a text message with a link to a questionnaire was sent 
to Ms Ss telephone number in March 2019. The text said GREAT NEWS! As we have 
already submitted your claim to  you are ONE STEP CLOSER to any potential 
compensation, however we still need your help to win Allay said the completed 
questionnaire was received back the same day. It assumed that Ms S was the only one to 
have access to her phone and personal email address. 
Allay said it had been sending updates by text message and email to Ms S from January 
2019 and had also left voicemail messages for her which she had chosen to ignore. She 
didnt get in touch with Allay when she initially received the invoice that was sent to her in 
April.  
It said it had a signature that the bank had accepted as a true match of Ms Ss and by 
signing the agreement, shed accepted Allays terms. If she didnt engage with Allay or sign 
the LOA, she would have taken action when she first received communication from it in 
January.
Allay sent us a copy of the questionnaire it said Ms S had completed. It said this showed her 
place of work and position at the time of borrowing, something Allay wouldnt have been aware of unless she advised it so. The questionnaire didnt require a signature. By 
submitting it, Ms S gave Allay further instruction to submit her claim.
Ms S said that when she first did the initial application for a free PPI check, she answered 
numerous questions. That was the only time she provided information to Allay. She didnt 
complete any further paperwork or online forms. 
Ms S said she agreed with the findings I had made in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only document showing Ms Ss signature is the letter of authority dated January 2019. I 
explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think this gave Allay authority to submit a 
claim on her behalf. Ms S would also have needed to complete the claim questionnaire by 
post, online or over the phone.
It isnt disputed that Allay sent a text message to Ms S in March 2019. But Ms S is adamant 
that she didnt click on the link or verify her details. And Allay hasnt provided sufficient 
evidence to show that she did. 
Im not persuaded that the only way Allay could have been aware of Ms Ss employment 
details is by her completing and submitting the questionnaire. I havent seen anything to 
show me that Ms S didnt provide this as part of her initial enquiry. Its also possible that 
Allay might have gained this information from the lender after completing the PPI check.
Also, the text message Allay sent Ms S with the link to the questionnaire says that Allay had 
already submitted (your) claim.
So, on balance, I think its likely that Allay submitted Ms Ss claim without her completing the 
questionnaire that would have given it the authority to do so.
Allay has also commented on the lack of communication from Ms S. But there was no need 
for her to respond to correspondence and updates from Allay from January to April 2019. 
The letters Allay sent her said she needed to return forms for it to submit her claim and she 
says she didnt want Allay to do so.
Ms S says she told an Allay representative that she hadnt signed the forms and a claim 
shouldnt have been made on her behalf around the time the invoice was issued. She 
followed this up with several emails starting that same day. I dont think Allay would have 
seen some of the emails at the time, because Ms S had responded to a no reply email 
address. But I think this shows that Ms S tried to dispute the invoice straight away.
Ms Ss account of what happened has been consistent throughout. Ive carefully considered 
Allays comments and the information its provided in response to my provisional decision. 
But this hasnt changed my conclusions.
Overall, Im persuaded by what Ms S has said and I dont think Allay has done enough to 
show that she gave it authority to pursue her claim. So, I dont think its fair for Allay to 
charge her a fee. Ms S also experienced distress and frustration because Allay pursued her for the fee and 
threatened her with court action. So, Im awarding Ms S an additional £100 for trouble and 
upset.
Putting things right
I direct Allay to waive its fee and pay Ms S £100 for trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct Allay Claims Ltd to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman