DRN-3848017
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim he made 
under his key protection insurance policy.
References to IPA include its agents.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr K attempted to make a claim under his key protection insurance 
policy with IPA. He says he initially phoned in September and was told hed be sent a claim 
form which he didnt receive.
In October 2021, Mr K phoned IPA to find out what was happening. He was told there was 
no record of him calling previously. He was given an address to send evidence of the cost 
hed incurred from getting a new key. 
In March 2022, Mr K phoned IPA and complained that hed heard nothing back since hed 
sent the invoice. IPA said it would log his claim again. However, Mr K says he didnt hear 
anything back. 
Mr K asked our service to look into his concerns. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged an issue with IPA setting up 
Mr Ks claim but was satisfied it had given him the correct address to send the invoice to. 
She didnt think IPA was likely to have received the invoice. She was also satisfied IPA had 
attempted to contact Mr K following his call in March.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators outcome. He was unhappy that his claim didnt appear 
to have been logged after three attempts. He was also concerned that he hadnt received a 
response to his complaint from IPA. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K says he tried to log his key claim three times  in September 2021, October 2021 and 
March 2022.
Mr Ks recollection of his call in September was being told hed be sent a form to complete 
so he could claim reimbursement for the cost of replacing his lock and keys. However, IPA 
says it has no record of this call. And it says it isnt its process to send a form for a claim to 
be dealt with.
The policy terms say to telephone the claims helpline within 48 hours of the discovery of the 
incident and assistance will be arranged. They go on to say:
For validation of your claim and reimbursement of costs please send original invoice(s), 
receipt(s) and/or crime reference/lost property numbers within 21 days of notifying (IPAs 
agent) 
Theres no mention of needing to complete a claim form. When Mr K called in October 2021, 
the agent said IPA wouldnt have told him a claim might be sent and suggested Mr K might 
have called a different company.
I dont doubt what Mr K has said about attempting to log a complaint in September. But I 
think its possible he may have called a different company. On balance, I dont think Mr K is 
likely to have contacted IPA in September.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ks call to IPA in October 2021. In this, the agent said he 
would log a claim and gave Mr K an address to send his invoice to, along with his reference 
number and contact information.  
IPA doesnt appear to have logged the claim correctly. However, IPA says it would have 
dealt with the claim on receipt of the invoice from Mr K. And IPA says it didnt receive the 
invoice.
Mr K says he sent the invoice after this conversation. However, he isnt sure which address 
he sent it to, and he doesnt have proof of postage. So, I dont have sufficient evidence to 
conclude that IPA is likely to have received the invoice from Mr K.
I appreciate Mr K was frustrated that his claim hadnt been dealt with by the time he called 
IPA in March 2022. However, Mr K doesnt appear to have followed this up in the period 
between October and March. And, as I dont think IPA was likely to have received the 
invoice, I dont think it would be fair to say IPA was responsible for a delay in the claim being 
progressed.
After Mr Ks call in March 2022, I can see that IPA did log his claim. IPA has noted sending a 
letter to Mr K requesting the invoice. So, I think this is likely to have been sent, even if Mr K 
didnt receive it.
I think IPAs communication with Mr K could have been better. I can see that it tried to email 
him but there appears to be a typing error in his email address. It doesnt appear to have 
chased him when he didnt respond to his letter. And it doesnt look like IPA responded to his 
complaint. 
Given that I think IPA could have provided better customer service here, Ive considered 
whether it should do anything to put things right. Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont 
require IPA to do anything more in this respect. 
I understand Mr K is frustrated about the time he spent on the phone. And I think the claim 
might have been progressed a bit more quickly if IPA had chased Mr K for the invoice. 
However, using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and our service wont 
always award compensation, even if we think a business has made a mistake  especially 
when the impact is minimal. So, while I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr K, 
I dont require IPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman