DRN-3657653
The complaint
Mr C complains he had difficulty arranging to repay his personal loan with The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS). 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr C says he contacted RBS to try and repay his loan early. He says they 
kept directing him to telephone banking  but telephone banking didnt give him an option to 
repay his loan. He says he made repeated attempts to find out how he could repay his loan 
in branch and over the phone. He was unhappy about long waiting times when he did try to 
call the bank. Mr C feels RBS have deliberately misled him so that they could continue to 
charge him interest on his loan. He complained to RBS in September 2021.
RBS responded to Mr Cs complaint but this only dealt with the issue of call waiting times. So 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
 
An Investigator considered Mr Cs concerns. He said the bank held no records of Mr Cs 
multiple visits to a branch or attempts to call the bank to repay his loan. He explained RBS 
had said if Mr C had visited a branch, advisers there wouldve been able to help him repay 
his loan. And the option to repay the loan over telephone banking had always been 
available. He also set out the process RBS had followed when considering Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators view as he felt the Investigator had favoured RBS. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS say they have no record of Mr C visiting either of the branches he said he did and have 
provided a statement from the manager of one of the branches confirming that if a customer 
came into branch asking to pay off their loan, they would expect their advisers to be able to 
assist them in doing so. Mr C says when he visited the branches he was directed to 
telephone banking. Its unfortunate there are no records of Mr Cs visits to the branches but I 
dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr C says telephone banking didnt give him the option to repay his loan. The automated 
system asks customers to say the reason for their call and if Mr C had said here he wanted 
to repay his loan he wouldve been able to get through to the relevant department to discuss 
this. I take Mr Cs point that there isnt an option volunteered by the automated system, but I 
still think it was possible for Mr C to have repaid his loan by telephone by saying this was the 
reason for his call. Im satisfied that option was always available to him and so, if branch 
staff did tell him he could arrange to repay his loan by using telephone banking, this was 
accurate information. 
Customers can also request a settlement figure on RBS website and more general 
information about repayment of loans can also be found on RBS website. RBS has also told 
us that the option for customers to repay loans via their mobile app has more recently 
become available but wasnt at the time Mr C was first trying to repay his loan. Its 
unfortunate that this wasnt an option earlier but as Ive explained, there were other ways 
Mr C couldve done so. 
I understand Mr C did repay his loan while the case was with our service. I can also see 
there was an issue with a payment being taken after the loan had been repaid but our 
Investigator explained what Mr C would need to do to get this resolved. And RBS has 
provided evidence to show the overpayment was returned to Mr Cs current account in April 
2022. 
Mr C was also unhappy with how long he had to wait on calls to RBS  between 35 minutes 
and an hour. I understand Mr Cs disappointment with these wait times but its not unusual 
for there to be a queue when making calls to financial businesses and RBS has apologised 
to Mr C for this. 
Finally, I can see Mr C was also unhappy with how RBS handled his complaint and our 
Investigator explained the process that had been followed in their view. 
Overall, I dont think RBS has treated Mr C unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman