DRN-4108682
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for misinformation in connection 
with his motor and breakdown insurance. 
What happened
The subject matter of the complaint is a small car, first registered in 2015. Mr H acquired the 
car in 2018.
For the year from late March 2022, Mr H had the car insured on a policy arranged and 
administered by an insurance intermediary. UKI was the insurer with which Mr H had the 
policy. Mr H didnt pay for the optional extra of breakdown cover at that time.
On 12 December 2022, Mr Hs cars battery wasnt working. Mr H thought he did have 
breakdown cover. So he contacted UKI to ask for a tow to a garage. UKI told Mr H that he 
didnt have breakdown cover. 
In answer to his question, UKI said he could add breakdown cover to his policy on payment 
of £19.87. Mr H asked if he could make a claim straight after purchasing that cover. UKI said 
that he could. So Mr H bought the UKI breakdown cover and paid £19.87. UKI transferred 
his call to its breakdown company.
On the same day, the breakdown company told Mr H that it wouldnt cover his cars 
breakdown. The company charged Mr H £150.00 to tow his car to the garage.
Within a day or two, Mr H complained to UKI that it had given him contradictory information, 
so it should refund him the £150.00.
By a final response, UKI upheld the complaint in part. It said it was sending Mr H £25.00 as 
compensation. UKI said it had offered to cancel the breakdown cover and to refund the cost. 
It also apologised to Mr H for the circumstances.
Mr H brought his complaint to us in early March 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that UKIs offer of £25.00 went far enough in resolving the complaint. He recommended that 
UKI should pay £50.00 to reflect the trouble and inconvenience caused.
UKI disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
As his car had already broken down before he had cover, Mr H was always going to 
incur high costs of recovery. UKIs breakdown company charged £150.00. Its major 
competitors wouldve charged more.
It has refunded the cost of the breakdown cover and paid £25.00 compensation. That 
put Mr H in a better position than they originally would have been.
Mr H also disagreed with the investigators opinion. He says, in summary, that:
When he spoke to the breakdown company on 12 December 2022, it inferred that if 
the UKI call-handler had made a note that he was covered straight away, it wouldve 
sent a recovery truck there and then without charge.
£50.00 is not enough. He will accept £80.00 as compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance generally covers the risk of an adverse event in the future. Insurance doesnt 
usually cover an adverse event that has already happened when the policyholder takes out 
the policy.
Mr H started off with a broken-down car and no breakdown cover. So he was going to have 
to pay someone to tow the car to a garage. 
The breakdown cover wouldnt cover Mr Hs problem with his car. UKI wrongly led him to 
believe that it would.
I consider that UKI gave Mr H false hope. Indeed, UKI has sent us a recording of a call 
between Mr H and the breakdown company in which that company didnt say he wasnt 
covered or that he would have to pay. Rather the company indicated that it was arranging 
recovery of the car. So there mustve been a later conversation in which the breakdown 
company said Mr H would have to pay £150.00.
I can see why Mr H thinks it fair for UKI to reimburse the £150.00 to honour what it 
incorrectly said. However, Ive thought about the impact on Mr H of the incorrect information. 
Mr H hasnt said that he couldve found an alternative towing service at short notice for less 
than £150.00. And I find that UKI refunded his premium payment. 
I dont find that fair and reasonable to direct UKI to reimburse the £150.00 because that 
would put Mr H in a much better position than his starting point.
I consider that the incorrect information and false hope caused Mr H disappointment and 
frustration when he had to pay the £150.00 and when UKI declined to reimburse him. 
However, UKI corrected the incorrect information promptly and tried to put things right with 
its payment of £25.00 and its apology.
I accept that Mr H wasnt happy with that response to his complaint. However, I havent seen 
enough evidence to uphold his complaint that UKI dealt with him rudely or aggressively.
Mr H has quite recently added a point that UKIs actions caused him to take out more 
expensive cover elsewhere. But I think that point is one that Mr H didnt make until after the 
final response and after his complaint form. So UKI hasnt had an opportunity to respond to it 
and I dont find it fair and reasonable to deal with that point in this final decision.Putting things right
Overall, I conclude that  in addition to its refund of premium and its payment of £25.00  a 
further £25.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience UKI 
caused Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr H  in addition to its refund of premium and its 
payment of £25.00  a further £25.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman