DRN-1558921
The complaint
Mr B complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) recommended 
insurance policies to him, when he only wanted advice about his pension. He also complains 
about the conduct of the adviser. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Although Mr B met with the adviser to discuss his pension, it wasnt unreasonable for 
the adviser to identify other financial needs he may have, and make 
recommendations for those. It was up to Mr B if he accepted any of those 
recommendations.
After Mr B emailed the adviser to say he didnt want to proceed with any of the 
recommendations, the adviser responded to say he would invoice Mr B for the time 
he had spent, and the expenses he had incurred. After Mr B queried this, the adviser 
told him to forget it. SJP has confirmed that no invoice would be charged for the 
advisers time. I think that the advisers response about the invoice was unnecessary 
and highly unprofessional. It was appropriate for SJP to apologise to Mr B for this, 
which Im satisfied it has done. SJP also offered Mr B £100 compensation and, given 
the level of confusion caused to Mr B by the comment, I think that was reasonable. 
Mr B says the adviser didnt make him aware of the fees, the cancellation procedure, 
and no product information was provided to him. The adviser acknowledges that he 
hadnt given Mr B all the necessary information (as his printer had apparently run out 
of ink), however he says theyd arranged for him to drop the remaining documents to 
Mr Bs house as he lived nearby. As the meetings between Mr B and the adviser took 
place face-to-face, I cant be sure what was discussed during those meetings. 
Though as the investigator has pointed out, Mr B didnt go ahead with any of the 
recommendations and therefore I cant conclude that he was mis-sold any of the 
plans or suffered a financial loss. 
Mr B has also raised concerns about the conduct of the adviser, which allegedly 
included threatening behaviour in a public place (when they saw each other in a 
social capacity). As the investigator has explained, we can only consider complaints 
about the employing firm, rather than individual advisers. Its not for this service to 
investigate or comment upon situations that have taken place socially. I havent seen 
any evidence of threatening behaviour from the adviser in his capacity as SJPs 
representative.
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that St Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc has offered appropriate compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman