DRN-3712842
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have refused to pay 
the cost of a barristers opinion and he believes it is delaying a claim he made under a legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
All references to LV are intended to include actions of its agents. 
What happened
What follows is intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint. It therefore 
does not detail everything that happened or is it intended to be a detailed timeline of events. 
Mr P has a legal expenses insurance policy with LV which provides cover for reasonable 
legal costs to be paid. Mr P wishes to make a legal claim for professional negligence against 
a third party. However, before LV agrees to fund the legal claim it must be determined, as 
required by the policy, that it would be more likely than not to succeed. 
Mr P has complained about previous actions by LV under a different complaint which has 
been considered by this service. The result of that complaint was that it was agreed by the 
parties that LV would pay for a non-panel solicitor to produce an opinion on the merits of the 
legal claim, and it would do so at a rate of £185 plus VAT. It was for Mr P to find a solicitor to 
produce such an assessment. 
Mr P however approached a barrister to provide an assessment and asked LV to fund 
counsels fee at a rate of 990 plus VAT. LV refused to do so and said it had concerns about 
the experience and area of law the barrister specialised in. It questioned whether it was 
appropriate for counsel to provide a prospects assessment on a professional negligence 
claim. LV asked Mr P to put its concerns to counsel and it would reassess its position on 
payment of the fee once those answers were provided. 
Mr P was unhappy about this and complained to LV but it didnt change its position. He then 
brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr P know he didnt think LV had done 
anything wrong. He thought it was reasonable for LV to raise the concerns it had and its 
indication that it would review the matter further once answers were received was also fair, 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In doing so he said 
he felt LV was further frustrating the progress of his claim. Mr P also raised issues which 
have previously been dealt with by the service surrounding the hourly rate LV will pay for the 
prospects assessment and that LV refuse to communicate by telephone with him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the underlying legal matter has been ongoing for some time. Im aware that Mr P is 
unhappy about how the insurance claim has progressed to date and he has had a previous 
complaint about that dealt with by this service. I must make it clear I will not be commenting 
or deciding upon anything that has been addressed in the other complaint.  My consideration 
here is solely focussed on whether LV was reasonable to refuse to pay counsels fee and if it 
acted reasonably in asking Mr P to obtain further information from counsel in order to satisfy 
those concerns. 
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Given the type of legal claim Mr P wants to bring, and the background of it. I think it is 
reasonable for LV to be certain anyone instructed to provide an assessment on the 
prospects of such a claim has the relevant experience and expertise in the area of 
law concerned.  This would be the same for any claim, but I can understand why it 
would be important here. 
It isnt unusual for insurers to ask questions of lawyers in order to be certain of their 
experience, qualifications and area of expertise, before agreeing to provide funding. 
And I dont see anything unusual in the questions LV had in this instance. 
Mr P had already instructed counsel directly and therefore had an established 
relationship. It was reasonable therefore for LV to ask Mr P to pass its queries on.
LV indicated it would be prepared to reconsider the position on fees once counsel 
provided its response. I think this was reasonable. 
Any further issues Mr P has had, or if he is unhappy about any further actions of LV, 
these would need to be dealt with as a separate complaint. Both to LV in the first 
instance and then to this service if he is unhappy with its response.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.                                                                                                                                                                                                             
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Ps complaint Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman