DRN-3111159
Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding her liable for a 
series of transactions she says she didnt authorise.
Background
Mrs C has an account with NatWest. In August and September 2020, it was used to make a 
series of payments to a gambling website. The total value of those transactions was just 
over £2,000. She told us that she does have an account with the gambling website in 
question, but that she hadnt used it for over ten years. She says that she wasnt responsible 
for these transactions and they were carried out without her authorisation.
She complained to NatWest. It contacted the gambling website who confirmed that the 
account wasnt in the name of Mrs C  but it was in the name of a person who she knew. 
She said that, on one isolated occasion, shed allowed that person to use her card. But she 
said they suffer with dementia and she thinks theres no way they couldve been responsible 
for the disputed transactions.
NatWest rejected her complaint and said it wouldnt refund the payments. It said shed 
allowed a third-party access to her account and shared her security credentials. It said that 
this was in breach of the terms and conditions of her account. Mrs C was unhappy with this 
response and so she referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator 
who didnt uphold it. The Investigator was concerned that Mrs C hadnt been consistent in 
her explanation of events. When she notified NatWest that shed been the victim of fraud, 
she told it that shed lost her card and wanted to cancel it. But she told the Investigator that 
shed never lost the card. She also told NatWest that she didnt monitor the account in 
question because she never used it. But she told the Investigator that she did monitor it 
using her online banking facility.
The Investigator was also concerned that Mrs C had waited such a long time before 
reporting the fraud to NatWest. She told the Investigator that shed previously reported 
fraudulent transactions to a different bank. She was unhappy when it suggested that her 
husband might be responsible, and she says she was worried that NatWest would take the 
same view. She also says that the reason she told NatWest shed lost her card was because 
she simply wanted the card to be cancelled to prevent future fraudulent transactions.  It was 
only when she received an email from the gambling site that she was satisfied that her 
husband couldnt have been responsible for the transactions.
Because Mrs C disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
The relevant rules in this area say that NatWest can hold Mrs C liable for these transactions 
if the evidence shows its more likely than not that they were authorised by her. NatWest has 
provided us with evidence that suggests each of the disputed payments wouldve been 
properly authenticated  that is, that the relevant identifiers (e.g. the card number, card 
holders address, CVV number and card expiry date) were correctly checked as part of each 
payment. Having said that, I accept that, as these payments were made using a gambling 
website, theres a fair chance that they werent manually entered each time.
However, the fact that the payments were properly authenticated doesnt mean NatWest can 
hold Mrs C liable. I need to be satisfied that its more likely than not that she consented to 
them. She says unambiguously that she didnt consent to these payments. But I agree with 
the investigator that the inconsistent accounts shes given of the circumstances surrounding 
these disputed transactions makes it very difficult to attach much weight to what shes told 
us.
Ive listened to Mrs Cs conversation with NatWest and our Investigator and theres no 
ambiguity. She told the NatWest employee at the beginning of the call that shed lost her 
card and later told the Investigator the opposite. She says that she only told NatWest shed 
lost the card so that it would be promptly cancelled and that she was still worried that an 
investigation of fraud would lead to NatWest wrongly accusing her husband of being behind 
the transactions. Ive considered this carefully but Im afraid Im not persuaded by it.
In the call where she reports her card as lost, she told NatWest that she suspected fraud on 
her account. She also told NatWest that shed already reported the issue to the police. I 
dont think a fear of a fraud investigation falsely accusing her husband was the reason why 
she told NatWest her card was lost.
She also told NatWest that she didnt monitor this account at all and so hadnt seen any of 
these transactions. But she separately told the Investigator that shed seen the payments 
leaving her account but didnt inform NatWest until she was sure her husband wasnt 
responsible. 
In any event, even if Mrs Cs card details had fallen into the hands of an opportunistic and 
anonymous fraudster, its not clear why theyd use those details to make payments like this.
Generally, if a card is used to place bet online, its common practice for any winnings to have 
to paid back on to the account that placed the bet. In order for a fraudster to benefit from 
making any potential winnings, theyd need to have access to Mrs Cs account. But shes 
since told us that she didnt lose her card and that the only person that might know her card 
details (the family friend whos name the betting account is in) is extremely unlikely to be 
capable of committing a fraud of this kind.
Overall, Im not persuaded by the account Mrs C has given us. I think the weight of the 
evidence supports the claim that she consented to these payments and so I find it fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to hold her liable for them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman