DRN-4192432
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr Z complain about their mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. They say it 
pressured them into making a decision, which led to them applying for a smaller mortgage 
than theyd intended. That left them with insufficient funds to cover all their costs, including 
the costs of moving house and renovating their new property. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr Z applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. They attended a video meeting with 
a Nationwide mortgage adviser in February 2022. They say that at the meeting they were 
asked how much they wanted to borrow  which included enough to repay their existing 
mortgage, plus £10,000 towards the cost of repairs on their new property. 
Mrs K and Mr Z say the adviser told them that if they increased their deposit by £12,000 that 
would take their loan to value below 60%, which would reduce the interest rate Nationwide 
could offer. They say they wanted to take some time to think about it, but were told that they 
had to make a decision before the end of the meeting. They agreed, but say they didnt 
understand that this would result in less mortgage borrowing. The application went ahead for 
the lower amount, and Nationwide offered Mrs K and Mr Z the mortgage. 
Mrs K and Mr Z complained. They say they felt pressurised into making a decision on the 
spot  but they should have been given more time. They say that Nationwide didnt properly 
explain the implications of increasing their deposit. It should either have given them more 
information before the meeting, or allowed them some time afterwards, so they had time to 
consider their options and make an informed decision. Although they welcomed the lower 
interest rate, they say they didnt understand that this would leave them with less money 
overall. They only realised the situation when they came to finalise the mortgage just before 
exchanging contracts on the property, by which time it was too late to change things. 
Mrs K and Mr Z say they had to use all their savings and were left with no money to finance 
the repairs to the new property or buy new essential items. They borrowed from family to 
make up some the shortfall, but are having to repay that money and also havent been able 
to carry out all the necessary repairs or fully furnish the property. To put things right, they 
want Nationwide to lend them the additional money  while keeping their mortgage on the 
lower interest rate  and pay them £5,000 which they borrowed from family. 
Nationwide said its adviser made clear at the start of the interview that it could only lend 
funds for purchasing a property  any additional funds for repairs, furniture and so on would 
have to come from an applicants own resources. It said interest rates could change at any 
time and so to secure the rate discussed in an interview, an application had to be submitted 
at that time. But it sent them paperwork confirming the discussion afterwards, so Mrs K and 
Mr Z could have asked for clarification or made any changes if they were unhappy. And it 
said the mortgage interview was based around the figures Mrs K and Mr Z had entered 
online when applying for a decision in principle, so they were aware of what would be 
discussed. 
Nationwide said it had explained what Mrs K and Mr Z were entitled to borrow, and had 
explained how much they were applying for. It had given them enough information to 
understand what they were agreeing to. It didnt uphold their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She said that Nationwide had 
explained things clearly and didnt place unreasonable pressure on Mrs K and Mr Z. Mrs K 
and Mr Z had initially misunderstood how mortgage deposits work but the adviser had 
explained the position correctly. Nationwide gave Mrs K and Mr Z suitable advice, and gave 
them clear enough information so they could understand what they were agreeing to.
Mrs K and Mr Z didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
said they hadnt had a proper explanation and hadnt been given appropriate options. They 
said that in one lengthy meeting they were given a lot of information and expected to make 
decisions quickly without proper explanation. They said they had to make decisions there 
and then because they needed the mortgage to ahead so they didnt lose their property 
purchase. They said the adviser should have checked that reducing their mortgage balance 
made their plans affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K and Mr Z had an existing mortgage with Nationwide, with a balance of around 
£138,000. In moving house, they applied to increase their borrowing to around £338,000, 
against a purchase price of £540,000. Following the meeting with Nationwide, the application 
was reduced to £325,000, which brought the loan to value to just under the 60% threshold (I 
have rounded the figures for ease). Mrs K and Mr Z ported their existing mortgage interest 
rate of 1.24% on the £138,000, and needed a new interest rate for the new borrowing above 
their old balance. 
Only a sound recording of the video call is available, but Ive listened to that recording. Mrs K 
and Mr Z had a lengthy meeting with a Nationwide adviser on 21 February 2022. The 
adviser reviewed the decision in principle from a previous discussion. 
Mrs K and Mr Z said they wanted to borrow an additional £200,000 on top of their existing 
mortgage. The adviser asked if they had any flexibility in their deposit, as if they reduced 
their mortgage by £12,000 it would bring them below the 60% loan to value threshold, which 
would slightly reduce the interest rate they would be able to take on the extra borrowing. 
They said they would look into whether they could do that, but the adviser said a decision 
would be needed today. She explained that if they took a two year fixed rate, the rate would 
reduce from 1.74% to 1.69%. 
Mr Z said they had £12,000 savings they could use to add to the deposit, but also borrow an 
additional £10,000 to offset that. The adviser explained that wouldnt be possible, and that 
they wouldnt be able to borrow any additional money for at least six months after 
completion. Mr Z said that the appointment should go ahead on the basis that they would 
use £12,000 of their savings towards the deposit, Mrs K agreed, and the adviser confirmed 
that they still had additional savings on top of that amount  Mr Z and Mrs K said they did.
There followed a discussion about Mrs K and Mr Zs financial position and the amount theyd 
be comfortable paying each month, as well as the source of funds for their purchase. The 
adviser generated a new decision in principle based on the new borrowing amount (factoring 
in a change to the purchase price). Mrs K and Mr Z agreed they didnt want to pay an early 
repayment charge on their existing borrowing, and so wanted to port the existing rate and 
take a new interest rate on the further borrowing only. There was a lengthy discussion about which rates to take, with Mrs K and Mr Z opting for a two year rate. 
Following the meeting, Nationwide sent Mrs K and Mr Z a recommendation letter, which set 
out the figures agreed in the meeting  confirming exactly how much they would be 
borrowing.
Having listened to the recording carefully, as well as considered all the other evidence and 
everything the parties have said, Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong.
Nationwide did have information about how much Mrs K and Mr Z wanted to borrow before 
the meeting began, because theyd previously applied for a decision in principle.
At the start of the meeting, the adviser said that borrowing that amount would mean that 
Nationwide could offer one interest rate  but if they could reduce the mortgage and increase 
their deposit, that would mean it could offer them a lower interest rate.
The reason for that is that Nationwide  like virtually all mortgage lenders  prices its 
mortgages based on loan to value. Generally speaking, as more money is borrowed as a 
proportion of the overall value of the property, the mortgage becomes riskier for the lender, 
and so it charges a higher interest rate.
Nationwide offered a slightly better interest rate if the total mortgage borrowing was 60% of 
the property value or less, than the rate if the borrowing was more than 60%.
It was right and proper for the adviser to point out that Mrs K and Mr Z were only just above 
the 60% threshold, and that if there was scope for them to increase their deposit and reduce 
their mortgage to bring it below 60%, that would make their mortgage cheaper. The adviser 
did this, and asked Mrs K and Mr Z how they wanted to proceed.
At first, Mr Z didnt understand what they were being asked. He thought that they could 
agree to increase the deposit from their savings, but increase the mortgage balance at the 
same time to replace those funds. The adviser rightly explained that this wasnt how it 
worked, and explained what she meant  that Mrs K and Mr Z would need to reduce their 
overall mortgage balance, and increase the amount they were putting towards the purchase 
themselves, if they wanted to bring the mortgage below the 60% threshold. After some 
discussion between them, Mrs K and Mr Z agreed to go ahead on the basis that they would 
borrow less to bring their mortgage below 60%.  
I dont agree that the adviser put undue pressure on them. She explained the options, and 
the implications, of each, but made clear it was their choice. She did say that they would 
either have to make a decision there and then, or postpone the rest of the meeting if they 
wanted time to think about it. Thats because this meeting was to agree and submit the 
finalised application for the mortgage they wanted. If Mrs K and Mr Z wanted the application 
to be submitted that day, they would need to decide which option to take. And if they wanted 
time to think about it, the application couldnt be submitted until theyd decided so the 
meeting would need to be re-arranged. 
I accept Mrs K and Mr Z felt pressured to go ahead because of their wider circumstances, 
including not wanting to risk delay in their property purchase. But those circumstances 
werent of Nationwides making. The adviser explained that she could go ahead with the 
original borrowing request at the higher rate, but was giving Mrs K and Mr Z the option of 
reducing their borrowing to reduce the rate. She didnt pressurise them to choose one or the 
other  she just made clear that she wouldnt be able to submit their application until theyd 
decided what to apply for. Had Mrs K and Mr Z wanted to take more time to decide, Im 
satisfied she would have agreed to re-arrange the meeting. And while that might not have fitted in with Mrs K and Mr Zs timetable for buying the property, it wouldnt have been 
appropriate for the adviser not to put the possible lower rate to them. 
I understand Mrs K and Mr Z feel there was a lot of information given, and a lot of ground 
covered, in the meeting. A mortgage is a big commitment and a complex product, so 
unfortunately thats inevitable. Ive not seen anything unusual or concerning about the 
process they were put through.
Following the meeting, the adviser sent Mrs K and Mr Z a recommendation letter which set 
out exactly how much they were borrowing. This would have confirmed to Mrs K and Mr Z 
how much of the purchase price they were contributing themselves, and therefore how much 
money theyd have left once the sale completed. It wasnt Nationwides responsibility to look 
at their wider financial situation or advise them on their overall budgeting. Nationwides 
responsibility was to recommend a suitable mortgage, and then arrange it for them (subject 
to their application being accepted). 
Nationwide told Mrs K and Mr Z that it wouldnt be able to agree further borrowing until at 
least six months after their mortgage completed. Mrs K and Mr Z say that in fact it allowed 
them to apply after four months. I dont think this means that the advice they were given to 
take the mortgage they did was wrong  but once Mrs K and Mr Z decided they wanted to 
borrow more money, it allowed them to do so sooner. Thats not unreasonable.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Nationwide to present Mrs K and Mr Z with the options 
open to them, giving them the choice of having time to think about it or go ahead with one of 
the options on the day. It was reasonable for Nationwide to proceed with the option they 
selected. And, if on reflection and having looked at their overall finances in light of the 
reduced borrowing Mrs K and Mr Z wanted to change their minds and take the higher 
amount after all they could have asked Nationwide to amend their application  but they 
didnt. I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman