DRN-3136813
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bamboo Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld and what Bamboo needed 
to do to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr G was given two loans by Bamboo, in September 2018 and June 2019. He 
initially borrowed £1,100 that he agreed to repay in 18 monthly instalments. Around 
eight months later Mr G refinanced that loan by borrowing £1,468  he used part of 
the proceeds of that loan to repay his earlier borrowing, and took a further capital 
advance of around £500. He also agreed to repay that loan in 18 monthly 
instalments. It appears that Mr G has faced some problems repaying the loan and a 
balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
Bamboo didnt agree that it had been wrong to give either loan to Mr G. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered to write off the interest it had charged on the additional 
borrowing Mr G took in June 2019. Mr G didnt accept that offer so he brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr G before it agreed each loan. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Gs normal expenditure. And it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and 
how hed managed credit in the past.
Mr G was entering into significant commitments with Bamboo. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months on both loans. So I think it was 
right that Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about Mr Gs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. 
I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient for Bamboo to achieve 
that aim  I think the checks Bamboo did before each loan were proportionate.
 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of Bamboos checks to see whether 
it made a fair lending decision at the time of each loan application.
When Mr G applied for the first loan Bamboos credit check showed that he was 
making little other use of credit. The results showed that he had taken a small 
short-term loan around a month before, but otherwise he had no active credit 
accounts. On balance I dont think that the presence of the short-term loan should 
have caused any significant concerns to Bamboo, or led it to consider any additional 
checks were necessary. And, since the disposable income that Bamboo had 
calculated for Mr G suggested the loan repayments were affordable, I dont currently 
think it was wrong to give the first loan to Mr G.
Mr G asked to refinance his first loan after less than half of the agreed repayment 
term. That in itself might have caused some concerns to the lender. But the results of 
the credit check at that time showed evidence that Mr Gs finances had most likely 
significantly deteriorated. The credit check showed that Mr G had opened at least six 
other credit accounts in the four months before asking for the new loan. That in itself 
might have been sufficient grounds for Bamboo to decline his request.
But at the very least I think Bamboo should have taken steps to dig deeper into 
Mr Gs finances. So Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements, and what hes told us 
about his financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown Bamboo. 
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check 
that Bamboo should have carried out. I do think Bamboo needed more evidence to 
understand what was happening with Mr Gs finances. And looking at his bank 
statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Gs 
bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
It is clear from looking at those statements that Mr G was facing problems with what 
appears to be heavy spending on gambling transactions. In the months before he 
asked for the second loan Mr G was spending around half his normal income on 
transactions of this nature. And he was funding that spending, together with his 
normal living costs, by borrowing from a number of other lenders. Had it seen that 
information, from better checks, I dont think Bamboo would have concluded that it 
should lend to Mr G.
As I said earlier, Bamboo has accepted that these apparent problems should have 
led to Mr Gs application for the second loan being declined. But I dont agree that the 
redress it previously offered is sufficient to put things right. The second loan was not 
a top up to the first  it was lent under a new credit agreement, and as a result Mr Gs 
obligations under the initial credit agreement were satisfied. So I think the redress 
that needs to be paid should reflect the entirety of the second loan, and not just the 
additional borrowing as Bamboo has suggested.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Bamboo hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr G says that he has 
nothing more to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I think 
it was reasonable for Bamboo to provide the first loan to Mr G. But, as Bamboo has 
accepted, it shouldnt have given the second loan to him. So Bamboo needs to pay Mr G 
some compensation.
  
Putting things rightI dont think Bamboo should have agreed to lend to Mr G in June 2019. So Bamboo should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the 
payments Mr G made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Gs loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr G effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
If reworking Mr Gs loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Bamboo that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G for that remaining capital.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loan 2
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Gs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman