DRN-2747599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) havent paid 
them the full market value for their car under their motor insurance policy. Their car was 
written off after an accident.
 
Mr and Mrs M have a separate complaint with Admiral about the excess on their motor 
insurance policy. But I wont consider that complaint here.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a lease agreement for their car on 3 October 2017. They had a 48-
month contract. 
They were involved in an accident in January 2020. They made a claim on their motor 
insurance policy. Their car was written off. Admiral settled their claim by paying off their 
lease agreement. They made a payment of £8,600 to settle the lease, despite the car having 
a market value of £11,000.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think it was fair that Admiral didnt pay them the difference between the 
market value and the amount that had been required to settle the lease. So they complained 
to Admiral.
Admiral didnt uphold their complaint. They said that theyd found no errors in the handling of 
their policy. They referenced the terms and conditions of the policy, which they said theyd 
followed. Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld their complaint. While he didnt agree that Admiral should pay them 
the difference in the market value and the amount needed to settle their lease, he did feel 
that Admiral should refund them part of the initial deposit theyd paid on the lease.
Admiral didnt agree. They said that part of the deposit should only be repaid if an incident 
happens within the time period of the advanced rental, in this case 3 months.  Mr and Mrs M 
didnt agree either. They felt that the process Admiral had followed was fundamentally unfair. 
They said they insured their car for its market value, not the value of the outstanding finance.
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, I reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Admirals policy terms state the following:
Page 12 Section 1  Damage to your car
.If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or 
contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the 
agreement, whichever is less.
Its not unusual for motor insurance policies to limit cover for lease cars in the way that 
Admiral have done here. And I dont consider that its unfair or unreasonable. 
A customer usually insures their vehicle for its replacement cost. For a car obtained through 
a lease, that replacement cost is a new lease. So, as long as the insurance covers the 
settlement of the old lease, I dont consider that the customer is losing out unless they have 
paid a deposit. Ill cover the issue of the deposit later.
Mr and Mrs M feel that Admiral shouldve paid them the difference between the market value 
of £11,000 and the amount needed to settle their lease, which was £8,600. But I dont agree. 
The terms of their lease meant they were effectively just borrowing the car for 48 months. 
They had no right to ownership of the car after the end of their lease. So I wouldnt consider 
it fair or reasonable to ask Admiral to pay them the additional £2,400 they think theyre 
entitled to.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy terms and conditions say that Admiral will only cover the amount 
owed under the lease hire agreement and wont pay any extra, even if the market value is 
more than what the customer still owes on the agreement. These terms can mean the 
customer loses out, as if theyve paid a deposit they wont get some of it back. So when they 
lease a new car theyd need to find a new deposit earlier than planned. 
Admiral havent considered the deposit Mr and Mrs M paid at the start of their lease 
agreement. Theyve said they usually only expect to do that when an incident happens 
within the time period of the advanced rental, in this case 3 months. But I dont agree. Mr 
and Mrs M have lost part of the benefit of their initial deposit. So I feel that the fairest 
outcome in this case is for Admiral to also pay Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata amount of their 
deposit to make sure they dont lose out. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs M had a 48-month lease. They paid a £612.47 deposit, which wouldve been 
followed by 47 monthly payments of £204.16. In order to work out how much of the deposit 
Admiral should refund to Mr and Mrs M, the deposit is broken down as follows:
£204.16 equivalent to a regular monthly payment for month 1
£408.31 (£612.47 - £204.16) is the additional deposit to be refunded on a pro rata 
basis 
The car was written off after 16 months, which means that Mr and Mrs M had only had the 
benefit of their deposit for a third of the length of the lease. So they should get back two 
thirds of the deposit. Two thirds of £408.31 is £272.21. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs M. But I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Admiral to settle for a higher amount that the amount needed to settle the 
lease. But I do require them to return part of the initial deposit. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £272.21.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr and Mrs M accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman