DRN-2772221
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading now as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M was sold a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two and a half decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since 
closed. So its rather understandable that neither side still have the original documents from 
the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Ms data 
rather than hold onto it for too long, and it would have been unusual for them to keep it for 
much longer than six years or so after the account closed. Meanwhile, Mr M doesnt recall 
buying PPI and says he didnt remember having it when he couldve later claimed. And I also 
think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and 
memories fade over time. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened 
based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr M into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr M 
here  theres no evidence to substantiate that. I think its more likely that Halifax followed a 
relatively normal sales process, offered Mr M a choice, and that he chose PPI at the time  
though I can understand if he no longer remembered doing so as the years went on.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it, so to be as fair to Mr M as possible, Ive 
assumed they did. That means Halifax had to check that the policy was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr M met the policys eligibility criteria and wasnt affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits 
and offered him much more comprehensive cover than what he already had. It also meant 
he could effectively protect his savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially 
having to sacrifice one asset to save another. And ultimately, if Mr M fell behind on his 
mortgage he couldve lost his home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for him in 
protecting his home.
It is possible that the information Halifax gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. And 
the policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr M said there were occasions where he couldve claimed on the PPI, but didnt. If 
thats the case, Mr M may still be able to make a back-dated claim on the policy. If hed like 
to do that, he should get back in touch with Halifax in the first instance. And if Mr M faces 
any issues with the retrospective claim, he may be able to ask our service for help as a 
separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about the sale of this 
particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman