DRN-2059153
The complaint
Miss Y has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claim for her 
horses treatment under her horse policy. 
What happened
Miss Y insured her horse with Allianz from 2001. The policy was originally set up by her 
parents. In 2007 Allianz paid a claim for treatment for her horse. Its notes said it was a claim 
for treatment of capsular rotation affecting both front feet leading to sole discomfort and 
lameness within left fore predominately.
In 2019, Miss Ys horse developed laminitis and Miss Y made a claim to Alliance. Allianz 
said this claim fell under its exclusion feet and pedal disorders, which it imposed after the 
2007 claim. 
Miss Y said no exclusion should have been applied in 2007 and the condition then wasnt 
properly diagnosed. Allianz wrongly said the exclusion was reviewable and paid Miss Y £75 
compensation for the confusion its mistake caused her. However, it maintained its refusal to 
deal with her claim due to the exclusion was correct.
Miss Y then brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought Allianz had done anything 
wrong. Miss Y disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. Also, in this complaint 
I am merely dealing with Miss Ys claim for the vet treatment and not her subsequent claim 
for the sad fact she had to put her horse to sleep. Thats because as the investigator 
explained, Allianz at the time had yet to receive this claim and hadnt made any decision on 
it. And Ive seen no further correspondence from Allianz about it.
This complaint is rather difficult given the lack of information available from Miss Ys vet 
history on the claim made in 2007 and indeed the lack of information available from Allianz 
own file on the matter. 
However, there is no dispute that this policy only provides cover for a condition for 12 
months and therefore that condition is no longer covered by the policy. And theres no 
dispute a claim was made in 2007. The exact wording is as follows:
The policy covers the treatment of each illness and injury for 12 months. The 12 
months start when the injury happens or when the first clinical signs of the illness are 
noticed. After this time all cover for that injury or illness will stop.
The wording of this clause is important as it doesnt require a formal diagnosis as Miss Y 
believes, it simply requires clinical signs and indeed the payment of a claim for treatment. 
Also, this clearly shows the limitation of the policy on which her horse was insured.
There doesnt appear to any vet history from Miss Ys vet for the claim made in 2007. Allianz 
also no longer have the claim form and vet history for that claim form in 2007. This isnt 
surprising given the passage of time. Allianz system notes record suggests that Miss Ys vet 
put capsular rotation affecting both front feet leading to sole discomfort and lameness within 
left fore predominately down under the section diagnosis of the illness or injury of the 
claim form. There are however, some x-ray films. Both Miss Ys vet and Allianz vet agree 
these films are of poor quality. Miss Ys vet didnt think the films showed any laminitis. 
Allianz vet said the following: 
Some rotation is evident but I would want to see other angles and better views which 
I know are not available. Equally I suspect it would be the clinical record from the 
time that would have given us the whole story to explain why the U/Ws placed the 
exclusion at the time, but again I dont think that is available. What we can be sure of 
is that the radiographs were taken for a reason and that reason for these views would 
have been laminitis, suspected laminitis or a foot-related lameness.
Neither vet can agree other than the x-ray films are of very poor quality. However, on that 
basis of these poor x-rays, a successful claim was made and paid by Allianz in 2007 which 
in turn gave rise to the exclusion it thereafter imposed on Miss Ys policy concerning her 
horses feet and pedal disorders. And I consider a claim for laminitis falls within that 
exclusion as it agreed between Miss Y and Allianz that it affected her horses forelimbs. 
Also, Allianz vet explained it includes foot related lameness and not just laminitis. 
So, in the absence of any other evidence to show that claim was wrongly paid and that 
consequently the exclusion was wrongly imposed, I dont consider theres any evidence to 
show Allianz were unreasonable in declining to pay Miss Ys current claim. 
Miss Y said Allianz arent permitted to underwrite on conformational issues. We take the 
view that insurers are permitted to decide what issues they want to insure and what issues 
they dont want to insure as thats permitted under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
regulations as being part of their commercial discretion. We also asked Allianz for its view on 
this point and it said the following:
 
This is not a conformational issue. Capsular rotation/rotation of the pedal bones is a 
change that occurs within the horses foot. But the important thing to note here is that 
we would underwrite on conformational issues. A few examples of conformational 
issues we would underwrite on would be: Cow hocked, Dipped back, Toed- In 
(Pigeon Toed). Therefore, even if it was a confirmation issue, which it isnt, we would 
still be able to underwrite on it accordingly.
I agree that Allianz mismanaged Miss Ys expectations by telling her in error this exclusion 
was capable of being reviewed. So, I also think it was appropriate Allianz paid Miss Y 
compensation for it. The sum paid, namely £75 is reasonable and in line with what I would 
have asked Allianz to pay for this if it hadnt already done so.
So, to conclude, there is no evidence that Allianz payment of the claim in 2007 was wrong, 
so consequently there is no evidence that the exclusion for foot and pedal disorders then 
imposed was incorrect. Since that exclusion includes issues concerning laminitis, since that 
affects a horses feet, I dont consider Allianz did anything wrong in refusing to pay Miss Ys 
claim.My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman