DRN-3975138
The complaint
Mr E complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) valued his car in a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car.
In April 2022, Mr Es car was damaged when a third party collided with it when it was parked 
at the roadside. He made a claim to esure.
esure assessed the car and declared it as beyond economic repair. It said it would declare 
the car a write-off and assessed its market value.
Mr E didnt agree with this valuation, so esure increased it to £8,497.
Mr E said his car had better than average condition with a full history. He says he was told 
by garages that a like-for-like replacement would cost him about £10,000.
esure didnt agree and it settled Mr Es claim. Mr E complained about esures service, and 
the valuation, and asked for the unused portion of his premium to be refunded.
esure agreed to pay Mr E £150 compensation for the poor service hed had. Mr E has said 
he hasnt cashed the cheque yet. In its final response, esure also said it would refund the 
unused portion of his premium when the third party admitted liability.
Mr E remained unhappy with esures decision and brought his complaint to this service. He 
asks that his car should be valued at around £10,000. He also asks for a refund of the 
unused portion of his premium. In his approach to this service, Mr E didnt ask for esures 
service to be taken into consideration, so Im not going to consider it further.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and upheld it. Hed looked at various trade 
guides which said Mr Es car had a value between £8,430 and £9,633. He said esure should 
settle Mr Es claim at £8,975.
esure didnt agree with the investigators view. It said our investigator had used a trade guide 
which wasnt in use by the service in April 2022. Because esure didnt agree with the view, it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision agreeing with our investigators view, but adding interest to 
the balance owed by esure to Mr E. My provisional decision is below:
Vehicle valuation
Ive said above that esure gave Mr E a vehicle valuation of £8,497 and I can see from its 
evidence that it arrived at this figure by taking the average of three values from trade guides 
it uses. We think the trade guides are generally more persuasive in indicating the likely 
selling price of a car rather than adverts for similar cars, as the adverts give an advertised 
price, rather than a selling price. Its important that I say we look to whether the insurers 
offer is reasonable.
These guides use data from various sources to give what they consider to be the likely 
selling price for cars of a similar specification, age, mileage and condition at the time of loss.
In esures evidence, I can see that it obtained the following values from the guides:
Company 1: £8,430
Company 2: £8,786
Company 3: £8,275
Company 4: £10,072
Its this services approach that if any of the trade guide values are significantly different from 
the others, then it can be discounted. And I can see that esure removed Company 4 from its 
calculation, arriving at a final value for Mr Es car of £8,497.
Ive done research into Mr Es car and Ive found these trade guide values:
Company A: £9,633
Company B: £9,063
Company C: £8,775
Company D: £8,430
Its esures contention that Company As value shouldnt be used by this service, because it 
wasnt a guide being used by us then.
I appreciate esure say its not reasonable for this service to use a trade guide that wasnt 
part of our approach at the time of Mr Es claim. I would generally agree with this if I thought 
esure had made a fair offer at the time. But Im not satisfied esure did fairly value Mr Es car, 
because if I remove Company As value from my list, the figure I get is still higher than 
esures valuation.
So, I think its reasonable for me to use all the information and evidence available to me 
today to arrive at a fair valuation, given Ive said I dont think esures valuation is adequate.
I dont regard any of the four companies A to D as being an outlier, so taking the average of 
the four figures above, I think a fair settlement would be £8,975.
So, to put things right for Mr E, esure should make an additional payment to him of £478, 
which is £8,975 less £8,497. esure should also add 8% simple interest from the date the 
claim was initially settled to the date the payment is made.
Ive noted Mr E was told by garages that he would need to spend nearer £10,000 to be able 
to replace his car, which is above the figure Ive just reached. As Ive mentioned above, we 
normally consider that the valuation tools give a more accurate figure for market values, as 
they are based on likely and actual selling prices, advertised prices and other data.
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me I should disregard the values given by the 
valuation tools in favour of a garages valuation.Premium refund
Mr E has asked that the unused portion of his premium is refunded to him. I can see in 
esures policy that it says:
If we decide your car is a total loss:
We may reduce the claim payment by taking the balance of the full annual 
premium you still owe us.
It seems to me that this indicates esure would keep the full premium following a total loss 
payment. This is a common approach in insurance as it effectively means that Mr E has 
used his policy.
But I can also see that esure has confirmed to Mr E that it will refund the unused portion of 
his policy if the third party who hit his car admits liability for it. This situation would normally 
mean esure is able to recover its costs, which can mean that some insurers make a refund 
of some payments to its insured customers.
I cant see from esures file what it would actually do when liability is confirmed, but I think its 
unreasonable to wait until liability is finally agreed before I issue my decision as this may 
take several months.
So Id propose that I deal with the settlement of Mr Es claim for his car in this decision, and 
if the issue of the premium refund isnt settled then Mr E can complain to esure and make 
another approach to this service in due course if he remains unhappy.
Id also ask that Mr E confirms whether he has cashed the compensation cheque for £150, 
as it may have expired. If it has expired uncashed, Id ask that esure re-issue it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties didnt respond to my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as my provisional decision.
Mr E didnt respond to my query about whether hed already cashed the compensation 
cheque for £150, so Id ask that he and esure liaise about this to ensure he receives the 
compensation it agreed to pay him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr E:
An additional £478, making the vehicle value £8,975.
8% simple interest on this figure, calculated from the date esure initially 
settled his claim, to the date esure make this payment.esure Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman