DRN-3068145
The complaint
  The complaint, in summary is that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly declined Ws application to 
switch its business bank account from another provider and placed a CIFAS marker against 
its director.
With the liquidators consent Mr N, the director of W, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
  The background to the complaint is well known to the both parties. So, I wont repeat them 
in detail here. 
Briefly, in January 2020 W applied to open a new business current account with Clydesdale. 
Ws application was made as part of a scheme called Business Banking Switch (the 
Scheme) whereby Ws existing bank - which Ill refer to as R - offered an incentive to its 
customers to transfer their business accounts to other providers. The amount of the 
incentive depended on the level of turnover of the relevant companys account with R. This 
ranged from Band 1 for turnover of less than £15,000 to Band 10 for turnover in excess of 
£750,000. 
Mr N completed the application form on behalf of W. Where turnover details were requested 
on the form, Mr N stated Ws turnover was £150,000. He based this assessment on figures 
for the current year which was 2019-20.  
As part of the Scheme, Clydesdale asked R for details of Ws turnover. R told Clydesdale 
that Ws turnover fell within Band 1 (so turnover of less than £15,000). R had calculated Ws 
turnover by reference to the period 31 October 2017 to 1 November 2018 as this was the 
turnover calculation period required under the Scheme.
In late January 2020 Clydesdale wrote to Mr N to tell him Ws application had been declined 
and that a CIFAS marker was placed against his name. The marker was later removed in 
March 2020. 
Mr N believed Clydesdale rejected Ws application because of the difference in the turnover 
figures he and R gave to them. He was of the view that this problem arose because 
Clydesdales account opening application form wasnt clear regarding the turnover period, 
they wanted figures for. Mr N also thought Clydesdales decision to place a CIFAs marker 
against his name was unjustified. 
Clydesdale acknowledged that their application form didnt state that the turnover period for 
the Scheme was 31 October 2017 to 1 November 2018. And they apologised for the 
confusion that was caused by their omission. But they said Ws application wasnt rejected 
because the turnover figures Mr N gave differed from those provided by R. They said the 
application was rejected because it didnt meet the banks criteria. 
In relation to the CIFAS marker, Clydesdale said that it was placed against Mr Ns name 
based on information available at the time. They said, however, that as soon as they 
received further information, they removed the marker and no adverse information was 
placed on Mr Ns credit files.   
Our investigator upheld Ws complaint in part. In summary she concluded that: 
Although Clydesdale acknowledged their application form was unclear regarding the 
turnover information they needed, ultimately that had no bearing on their decision. 
However, this caused some avoidable inconvenience to W. 
Clydesdale added the CIFAS marker against Mr Ns name following their routine 
internal checks. However, they did remove it on receiving further information. Mr N 
says that Ws applications to other scheme providers were declined due to this 
CIFAS marker but there is no evidence to support this assertion. However, this 
matter also caused some avoidable inconvenience to W. 
Overall, the investigator thought Clydesdale, should pay W £300 compensation for the 
inconvenience W suffered.
Clydesdale accepted the investigators recommendation and paid the £300 to W.  But W has 
come back not agreeing with the recommendation. On its behalf Mr N didnt think the 
amount went far enough. He reiterated that on Ws behalf he tried to apply for accounts with 
other banks, but the applications were declined because of the CIFAS marker. He says also 
that although hes unaware whether anyone saw the CIFAS marker, nonetheless, the 
information was publicly available and may have affected his reputation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, essentially for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why, but first I start with a clarification. 
Mr N has told us about the impact the CIFAS marker had on him personally, and that he was 
unable to open a personal savings account elsewhere as a result. I understand Mr N has 
made a complaint about this which was being considered separately. So, under this 
complaint I am only considering Ws complaint about Clydesdale and the impact of 
Clydesdales actions on it. 
In relation to the CIFAS marker therefore, what that means is I am only considering whether 
Clydesdales decision to place the marker against Mr Ns name impacted W. 
The decline of Ws application 
As the investigator noted, Clydesdale have acknowledged that their application form wasnt 
clear enough regarding the relevant period for which Ws turnover needed to be calculated. It 
is Mr Ns belief that this resulted in the discrepancy between the two figures and that caused 
Clydesdale to reject Ws application. In fact, Ws complaint to Clydesdale was on that basis. 
However, Clydesdale has clarified that it wasnt the case that the application was rejected 
due the discrepancy between the figures Mr N and R provided. As the investigator noted, the 
reason Clydesdale rejected the application was because it didnt meet the banks criteria. In 
other words, Ws application wasnt declined for the reasons Mr N believed it was. 
In the circumstances therefore, Im unable to conclude the lack of clarity on the application 
form which meant Mr N didnt provide correct turnover information to Clydesdale was 
ultimately the cause of Ws financial loss. In other words, Ive not been persuaded the 
unsuccessful transfer of Ws account from R to Clydesdale flowed from Clydesdales error. 
And it follows Im not persuaded the loss of the incentive payment resulted from it.
The CIFAS markerThe CIFAS marker was registered against Mr Ns name because Clydesdales internal 
checks raised some concerns. And the marker remained in place for two months between 
January and March 2020 when it was removed after Clydesdale received further information. 
I can understand why this would have been upsetting for Mr N personally and Im aware he 
thinks the placing of the marker was defamatory and could well have impacted his personal 
reputation. But as noted above, this was being considered separately. 
As regards the impact that had on W, Mr N has told us the applications made on behalf of W 
to approximately five other providers under the Scheme were declined because of the 
CIFAS marker. The investigator did ask Mr N for evidence demonstrating that was the case, 
but Mr N has not provided any. 
 So, I am unable conclude Clydesdales action caused W to suffer a financial loss in the form 
of the incentive. 
Putting things right
  In summary I agree that this matter caused some inconvenience to W not least the time Mr 
N had to spend establishing on Ws behalf the reason for the rejection of its application for 
an account with Clydesdale. Having considered this, I agree with the investigator a payment 
of £300 in this regard is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint
My final decision
  My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay £300 in full and final settlement of 
the complaint. As I understand it, they have already made the payment. Therefore, they 
need take no further action.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman