DRN-2167470
The complaint
Mr A says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) 
irresponsibly lent to him. He says MoneyBoat cant have carried out proper affordability 
checks and that the lending caused him to borrow further. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr A between August 
and December 2017. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Total 
Monthly
Repayment
1 08/08/2017 21/09/2017 6 Weekly £200.00 £172.42
2 10/10/2017 23/11/2017 6 Weekly £250.00 £215.54
3 29/12/2017 Outstanding 6 Weekly £350.00 £235.79
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint and didnt think any of the lending should have 
been given. They thought that the credit checks carried out by MoneyBoat indicated that the 
lending would be unsustainable for Mr A. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said it would be unrealistic to review every line 
of a credit report prior to lending, especially at the early stages of a lending relationship, and 
particularly bearing in mind the nature of the market where customers required a quick and 
efficient service. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
 
MoneyBoat has said that before it agreed to lend to Mr A it carried out an income and 
expenditure check, an affordability check as well as a credit check through a credit refence 
agency. 
For Mr As first loan MoneyBoat recorded that he was earning a monthly income of £1,645. 
His monthly expenses including housing costs, transport and food etc were £1,231. This 
included a monthly cost for credit of £513.This left Mr A with a monthly disposable income of 
£414 and the monthly repayment for the loan was £172.42. So, on the face of it the 
borrowing for loan one would seem affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
But MoneyBoat has also provided us with a copy of a credit report it obtained at the point of 
Mr As first loan application. And I think the information contained in that report should have 
suggested to MoneyBoat that Mr A was having problems managing his money. As explained 
by the adjudicator there were 18 active accounts, 13 of which had been opened in the 
previous six months. And the report also shows that 8 credit searches had taken place in the 
previous three months and a total of 29 in the previous year. The total balance on loans and 
instalment credit stood at £7,409. 
And as Ive said above, Mr A declared his total monthly credit expenses to be £513 but 
MoneyBoats own search showed that it was significantly higher than that and repayment due was £1,314. So, this represented the majority of Mr As income and that is before taking 
any of his essential expenses such as housing costs and food etc into account. 
If MoneyBoat had taken note of the information it had obtained I think it would have done 
more to build a bigger picture about Mr As financial circumstances. It could have done this 
by asking for copies of Mr As pay slips, bills or bank statements as examples. And Mr A has 
given us copies of his bank statements from the time of the lending and they show significant 
usage of other short-term loans from other credit providers. 
MoneyBoat has told us it would be unrealistic to review every line of a credit report prior to 
lending. Particularly at the early stages of a borrowing relationship and bearing in mind the 
nature of this type of credit where its customer wanting an efficient and speedy service. But I 
disagree. MoneyBoat had relevant information about Mr As financial circumstances. And I 
think it should have used that information when considering whether it should lend to Mr A. 
Its not reasonable to disregard this information given its responsibilities to make 
proportionate checks before lending. 
The evidence given in that report suggested that Mr A was having real problems managing 
his money, was over indebted and bearing in mind the number of other accounts he had, the 
lending at loan one  and the subsequent loans looked unsustainable. So, I dont think 
MoneyBoat should have agreed to the lending. 
In conclusion, Im upholding the complaint about loans one to three and MoneyBoat should 
put things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr As final loan has been transferred to a third party 
MoneyBoat should buy the loan back if it can. If MoneyBoat cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr A having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. 
MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move 
to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B     
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr A. E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to loans                                                  
one to three.  
                                                                                                                                
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr A still has an outstanding balance due, then MoneyBoat should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr A in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr A fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman