DRN-2235516
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
AXA didnt directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision.
What happened
Mr H took out a store card with AXA in 1999. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover the repayments on his card if he couldnt work. It also offered 
purchase and price protection.
Mr H says that he doesnt think he would have been covered by the policy because he had 
an existing medical condition when he took the policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged Mr Hs condition, and thought it was serious enough to 
prevent him wanting to take the policy.
AXA disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im going to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr H took out the store card and PPI by filling in an application form. AXA has supplied a 
copy of this and I can see that theres a separate section for the PPI. Mr H has signed to say 
that he wants the cover. 
AXA had an obligation to make sure Mr H had all the information he needed so he could 
make his decision. I dont think AXA did this well enough. And I dont think Mr H wouldve 
bought the policy if hed had all the information he required. 
Theres a very brief explanation of the cover on the application form. Its a few lines long and 
doesnt include anything about the exclusions on the policy. I think this was important 
information for Mr H to have. The policy excluded existing medical conditions from cover. It 
said You must not be aware of any sickness, disease, condition or injury in the 12 months 
before the start date that may cause you to claim for disability benefits; or any sickness, 
disease, condition or injury that may cause you to claim for accidental bodily injury, 
hospitalisation, life or accidental death benefits.
I think it wouldve been important for Mr H to understand this before he took the PPI. Mr H 
had a medical condition when he took out the policy. It didnt cause him any significant day-
to-day problems and he took medication to control it. But it had potential consequences for 
his health in the long term and couldve caused or contributed to a number of different 
serious conditions. Any conditions which arose as a result of his existing condition wouldve 
been excluded from cover. And Mr H has told us hes had to take periods of time off work 
over the years because of his condition. 
I think Mr H wouldve viewed his condition, or another disease or condition related to it, as 
the most likely reason for him to need to make a claim on the policy. So if AXA had made 
him aware that it would be excluded from cover I dont think hed have thought the policy 
offered him a useful benefit and I dont think hed have bought it.
I think Mr H lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his account if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed AXA something on his card. The interest rate should be 8%. 
D. AXA should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr H that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay 
compensation as described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman