DRN-4296912
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Wealthify Limited about what he considers to be the poor 
performance of his pension plan, and the lack of clarity on the figures which were being 
shown for the plan. Mr G also queried as to why 10% of his plan value was held in cash, 
given his adventurous investment approach. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr G transferred three existing pension plans into Wealthifys 
Adventurous Plan, which at the time held the following asset split:
Equities 87%
Government bonds 8%
Corporate bonds 2%
Thematic 2%
Cash 1%
Wealthify Limited is a discretionary investment manager, and following a suitability test 
(which may limit the options for particular clients), Mr G himself chose the adventurous risk 
rating for his pension plan.
Following the inception of his plan, Mr G complained about the delays in transferring his 
existing pensions into the plan and, following an investigation by Wealthify, it paid £466 into 
his plan as redress in respect of this.
Mr G then complained to Wealthify in August 2022 about several matters, including the 
manner in which growth was displayed on his plan and the responses and customer service 
hed received from Wealthify in respect of his concerns.
Wealthify replied, saying that it had identified a problem with the way in which the redress 
payment had been invested, which resulted in the growth view being skewed, but it 
reassured him that his money had been invested as it should have been.
It apologised and paid £50 into Mr Gs bank account. It said that, if Mr G remained 
dissatisfied with the outcome, he could refer the matter to this service, but that this would 
need to happen within six months, or this service wouldnt then have its permission to 
consider it.
Mr G then complained again in October 2022 saying that the plan was showing the wrong 
performance and that the 11% held in cash was incorrect. Wealthify replied to say that it had 
checked his plan and the performance was correct. And it said that plans were rebalanced in 
October 2022 so that cash allocations were increased to 10.5%. It said that Mr G would have 
received an email confirming this and the rationale behind it.
But further investigation into the way his redress sum had been invested had revealed a 
delay in that process, and that as a result there was a small loss of around £12. It said that, 
as a resolution it would pay £25 to Mr Gs bank account. Again, it said that, if Mr G remained 
dissatisfied with the outcome, he could refer the matter to this service, but that this would 
need to happen within six months, or this service wouldnt then have its permission to 
consider it.
Mr G then complained again in April 2023, saying that he was unhappy with the performance 
of his plan and would like an explanation, and that he didnt feel he had clarity on the figures 
which were showing for his plan. 
Wealthify responded to say that, when establishing his Adventurous Plan, Mr G would have 
received a factsheet which outlined the aims of the plan and the typical risks associated with 
it. It commented that the factsheet said the following:
Whats the aim of the Adventurous Plan and who is it for?
The aim of the Adventurous Plan is to maximise growth over the longer term. Investing 
always involves some level of risk, and movement up and down in value is to be expected. 
The Adventurous Plan is suitable for investors focused on maximising potential gains, and 
willing to see substantial movements up and down in value to try and achieve high returns. 
Investing should be part of a long-term savings strategy and whilst money can be withdrawn 
from a Wealthify Plan at any time, investing for less than 5 years is unlikely to be appropriate 
for an Adventurous Plan.
And it said there was a further section of risk as follows:
Risk of loss
With investing, theres always a chance that investments can go down in value. In a one-
year period, theres a 5% chance you may lose more than 14.4% of the value of an 
Adventurous plan. This is not a maximum loss, and losses in the future may be greater.
It added that the Adventurous Plan was suitable for investors who were comfortable with 
substantial increases and decreases in the value of their pension funds. It pointed to the 
positive performance of Mr Gs plan in the 12 months preceding May 2023, but said that the 
overall performance since the plans inception had been just over -11%.
It noted Mr Gs continuing concerns regarding the cash in his plan, but reiterated that this 
was to shield his pension funds from the current market volatility and to provide liquidity 
should investment opportunities arise.
It further reiterated the comments in its previous responses relating to the accuracy of the 
figures shown for his plan, and restated that they were accurate.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr G referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator assessed the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said the following in summary:
He didnt think this service could consider the complaint about the rebalancing of the 
portfolio and the movement of some of the funds into cash, as this had been 
addressed in a final response letter which was issued more than six months before 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. And Wealthify had said that it wouldnt 
consent to us considering the matter outside of that six month timeframe.
Wealthify had provided sufficient warnings about the risks involved in the 
Adventurous Plan, and that policyholders may get back less that they invested. He referred Mr G to the plans terms and conditions.
Wealthify hadnt recommended the Adventurous Plan to Mr G  it had been Mr Gs 
choice.
Had more of Mr Gs fund been invested rather than retained in cash, the losses 
would have been greater.
Mr G disagreed, however, saying that he didnt think his questions had been answered and 
he still didnt understand the performance of his portfolio, and what it had been based upon.
Mr G added that he considered it dangerous for a robo advice company to be able to ruin 
the performance of a portfolio without taking ownership or responsibility for it. Mr G didnt 
think that Wealthify had looked after his portfolio properly. He said that he had the highest 
risk and should therefore receive the highest returns. He queried as to how, therefore, his 
portfolio was down -10%, despite the market recovery.
Mr G further queried as to the difference between an investment and a scam, and the point 
of having a pension administered if he was losing money.
The investigator responded to say that, whilst high risk investments could achieve high 
returns, they could also suffer large losses, and that Mr G ought to have been aware of this 
before investing in the plan. He also sent a link to Wealthifys fund fact sheet, which provided 
more information about how his pension fund was managed.
Mr G continued to disagree, however, saying that if people were making losses on their 
pension despite positive market performance, then it was a catastrophe on a massive 
scale.
He also envisaged a huge scandal involving robo advice and poor performance, as 
evidenced by the numbers of people complaining about this on sites such as Trustpilot.
Mr G restated his request that an explanation be provided as to why his pension performed 
poorly whilst most indices performed well. He noted that, between late 2021 and mid-2023, 
the performance of his plan didnt change much.
The investigator said, in response, that it wasnt for this service to comment on performance, 
but we could consider whether Wealthify had done anything wrong in the management of his 
plan which may have caused it to depreciate more than it should.
But Wealthify had set out in its literature that losses could be as great as 16.4% over a one 
year period and Mr Gs losses were currently around 10%.
He also commented that Mr Gs pension funds were invested in a number of different 
indices, markets and asset types. And so the indices to which Mr G had referred may not be 
a fair reflection of what hed actually been invested in.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, saying that it appeared that no one wished to take ownership for 
the situation. He repeated his point about the major indices performing better than his plan, 
and that if the disparity couldnt be explained, then there was something fundamentally 
wrong.
As he had been investing for over a year, with no ownership of the situation by Wealthify, the 
FCA should begin investigating the performance of these schemes and whether they offer 
good value for money as per the regulations, Mr G added.As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that I acknowledge and understand Mr Gs point about the performance of his 
portfolio compared to stock market indices. But Mr G wasnt invested in a tracker fund, 
which, as the name suggests, tracks the performance of a particular index  rather he was 
invested in a mix of equities (shares), bonds and cash, which was also geographically 
diverse. It may well be the case that, sometimes, indices perform better than the more 
diversely invested portfolios into which Mr Gs pension funds have been placed, but it will 
often not. 
Mr G would have been aware, or in my view ought reasonably to have been, by virtue of the 
literature provided to him, that his pension funds werent invested in a tracker fund. And due 
to the different performance of different types of asset in the pension portfolio, along with 
exchange rate fluctuations, this will have meant that his portfolio reacted differently to a 
basic index.
As set out by the investigator, I dont think the available evidence supports the position that 
Wealthify has in some way failed to invest according to the manner set out in the fund fact 
sheet. It did rebalance so that more assets were held in cash during a period of what it 
considered to be market volatility, but it informed Mr G of this, and as commented by the 
investigator, this will likely mean that, during downturns in financial markets, Mr G will have 
been better protected.
It may also have invested in higher risk shares whose performance also wouldnt necessarily 
have mirrored that of the shares of more mainstream companies which constitute the stock 
market indices.
And so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint. Mr G was, or ought 
reasonably to have been, aware that he could incur losses by investing in a high risk 
manner, and there is no direct correlation between the performance of stock market indices 
and portfolios which invest in range of different assets. Nor do I think it would be reasonable 
to expect that to be the case.
In closing, Ive noted Mr Gs comments about an investigation which he feels should be 
undertaken by the FCA, but this is something he would need to refer to that organisation 
directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman