DRN-2906286
complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a loan. Their 
recollection is that they applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. NBS has told us the 
application was made by post. It has given us a copy of the paperwork from the time of the 
application and I see that the loan application itself has been completed by hand and signed 
and dated by Mr and Mrs T. The instruction on the form was for Mr and Mrs T to complete 
the form and then return it to their local NBS branch. So, I think it unlikely this was an in-
branch sale and more likely to have been made through the post. 
The policys one-off upfront premium of £381.14 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The monthly 
loan repayment was £119.42 with the PPI costing an additional £13.01 making the total 
monthly repayment £132.43. 
The policy provided cover solely for Mr T for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ts monthly loan 
repayment for the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
At the time, Mr T was employed as a mechanic MOT tester. He told us he was not entitled to 
any employee sick pay and didnt have any other financial means such as savings of 
repaying their loan should he be unable to work. He didnt tell us of any employee 
redundancy pay he would have received if he lost his job. Mr T told us of a medical condition 
he suffered from which resulted in him having an operation and then three months off from 
work, but he couldnt give us much detail about the date of that condition and operation.
Mrs T was employed as an assistant cook and would receive between three- and six-months 
employee pay if she was too unwell to work. She would receive redundancy pay from her 
employer if she lost her job. Mrs T didnt have any other financial means she could have 
relied upon to make the loan repayments in the event she wasnt working. Mrs T told us of 
some medical condition she suffered from.
  
As the policy solely covered Mr T, Ill be mainly considering his circumstances from the time 
of the sale.
 
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2001.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
NBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                   
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means NBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG).
 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2000. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.
 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:- If NBS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
- Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent                  
Mr and Mrs T suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs T say they were told 
they had to have the PPI in order for the loan to be agreed.
But, and as Ive said about, NBS has been able to give us a copy of the loan application and 
subsequent agreement.
 
I see from the loan application form that there is a separate section entitled PROTECTING 
YOUR REPAYMENTS  and the YES box has been ticked to say I would like to take 
advantage of the peace of mind offered by LoanCare Cover in the event that I am unable to 
work due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness or death. Mr T has also signed 
this section. There was an equally prominent box to say NO which could have been ticked if 
the policy wasnt wanted so I think Mr and Mrs T knew the policy was optional at the point of 
application. 
Mr and Mrs T were also sent a loan agreement form after they returned the application. On 
that form there is a table setting out the costs of the loan itself as well as the PPI and the 
monthly cost. The PPI column is entitled Optional Credit Insurance so again I think it was 
made clear Mr and Mrs T had a choice at the time they signed to agree to take the loan and 
policy. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs T say that advice was given. 
Looking at what happened when NBS sold Mr and Mrs T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice. I say this because Im satisfied this was most likely a postal sale which 
would have meant there was no meeting with an NBS representative or any intervention at 
the point of application. So, Mr and Mrs T completed the application in their own time and it 
was for them to decide whether they wanted the policy.
  
This means NBS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs T to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mr T was unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached 
this conclusion because this was set out on the credit agreement Mr and Mrs T signed and I 
think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have taken out the policy without any sense of what 
the policy was. And I think Mr and Mrs T knew that the single premium being added to the 
loan was £381.41, the interest added to the premium was £86.95, the total cost was 
£468.36, and the monthly cost was £13.01 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs T signed.) 
 
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether NBS gave sufficient 
information about the about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take 
out the policy.
 
So, I dont think NBS gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Ts. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court 
would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did         
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs T. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude                
Mr and Mrs T suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly.
 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs T had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what             
Mr and Mrs T thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss 
or detriment. 
As Ive already said, while Mr and Mrs T might not have been clearly given the cost 
information during the application itself, the information Mr and Mrs T were given in the credit 
agreement which followed the application  and which required their signature before the 
loan and the PPI started  was clear. So overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would 
have found the cost unacceptable if they had been given all of the cost information when 
they completed the loan application. If they had found it unacceptable, I would have 
expected them to have raised this on receipt of the credit agreement which set this out 
clearly to them. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get back in return in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ts expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet their 
loan payments) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition or disease which Mr T 
knew of or should reasonably have known of on the start date of the policy. Or any 
medical condition or disease for which Mr T received treatment, advice or was 
referred for investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date of the policy; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T would have to 
be unable to do any work as certified by a doctor.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to         Mr and Mrs T should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr T wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr T 
was in permanent employment. 
Mr T did tell us of a medical condition he suffered from which resulted in him having an 
operation and then three months off from work. But Mr T couldnt give us details about when 
this happened but was able to say they were no further complications which makes me 
consider this to be a one-off condition and not ongoing. So, I dont think this would have 
been uppermost in Mr Ts mind to the extent that when he applied for the policy this potential 
exclusion would have put him off from taking the policy. So, I still think they had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence 
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be totally unable to do any work as certified by a 
doctor.  I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected to make 
a claim. After all, the loan application form says the policy provides cover if Mr T was unable 
to work due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness or death. So it seems unlikely 
they would have thought Mr T would have able to make a successful claim if he was still 
working.
The policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs T decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them 
manage the consequences were Mr T made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account                    
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs T found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
they were buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would put them in a better position 
than they would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court might take 
if it were to find NBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman