DRN-3833620
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc lent to her irresponsibly when they agreed 
a fixed sum loan for her on 15 April 2019.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties which set out the background to this 
complaint and my provisional findings. These are copied below and form part of this 
decision. 
What happened 
By way of background to this complaint, on 24 August 2015 Mrs M arranged a Barclayloan
for £15,000 over 60 months (Loan 1), with an interest rate of 4.9% and a monthly payment of
£281. The loan was used to clear Mrs Ms Barclaycard and pay for sundries. And on 4
August 2016 a second loan was taken out to repay Loan 1 and use the additional funds for
general use (Loan 2). Loan 2 was for £15,000, over 60 months. The interest rate was 5.8%
and the monthly payment was £287.56.
Mrs M has shared that due to building up debts because of gambling, she and her husband
sold their property in February 2018 and downsized, using the proceeds of the sale to clear
some of Mrs Ms other outstanding debts and reduce the amount she owed on Loan 2.
However, by April 2019 Mrs M had maxed out her available credit through gambling and
general use.
On 15 April 2019 Mrs M took out a Barclayloan for £25,000 over a term of 60 months (Loan
3). The interest was 6.22% fixed per annum, the monthly payment was £486.50 and the total
to be repaid was £29,190. This loan was taken out for debt consolidation. The funds from
Loan 3 were used to repay the outstanding balance on Loan 2, and of the remaining amount
(£17,426) £9,999 was used to reduce the outstanding balance on the Barclaycard. Mrs M
also used the remaining funds largely towards gambling.
In October/ November 2019 Mrs M approached a charity for help with her outstanding debts,
and she entered into a debt management plan. Mrs M says that at the time she approached
the charity her outstanding debts were in the region of £69,000. Around this time Mrs M also
submitted her complaint to Barclays.
Loan 3 was defaulted in November 2019, and was later sold to a third-party in April 2021
with an outstanding debt of £19,933.
Mrs Ms complaint to Barclays was that they should not have sold her the loan. Mrs M said it
was unsolicited and unnecessarily increased her borrowing. Mrs M has said she told
Barclays during a phone call on 15 April 2019 that she was struggling financially and that
she was in debt, and gambling in the hope of clearing her debts. Mrs M says Barclays
shouldve realised this due to the outgoings showing on her Barclaycard, and it wouldve
been apparent if they had properly considered her circumstances and carried out
appropriate credit checks. Mrs M told us Barclays had said to her that the loan would cost
less than continuing to repay her credit cards. Mrs M also said that Barclays should not have
allowed her to gamble using her Barclaycard.
Barclays did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They said consideration had been given to her
income and expenditure at the time and there was nothing to suggest she was unable to
afford Loan 3.
Mrs M brought the matter to our service where our investigator concluded Barclays couldve
carried out more checks when agreeing to lend to Mrs M. The investigator said if Barclays
had done this then a more in-depth assessment would have shown Mrs M should not have
been given the loan.
Barclays did not accept they had done anything wrong as they maintained that proper
consideration had been given to Mrs Ms loan application. They also noted Barclaycard was
a separate entity so they would not have had access to specific details of Mrs Ms spending
on that card. Barclays also pointed out that the interest Mrs M was paying on her
Barclaycard (19.37% standard rate and 25.10% cash rate) was significantly higher than the
6.22% interest rate being applied to the loan, so the loan wouldve benefited Mrs M when
consolidating her debts.
That said, as a gesture of goodwill only, Barclays agreed to write off the interest Mrs M had
been charged for the increased amount of borrowing taken out in April 2019. Barclays
calculated this figure as £809 and explained they would pay this sum towards the
outstanding balance of the loan.
Mrs M did not accept this as a resolution to her complaint and said it would do little to clear
the outstanding balance of around £19,000 that she still owed for this loan. Mrs M also felt
Barclays had benefited because she had paid £9,999 to her Barclaycard, and that the
gesture of goodwill was an admission by Barclays that they had done the wrong thing when
lending to her in April 2019.
To resolve things Mrs M explained to our investigator she was seeking a refund for the
capital difference between Loan 2 and Loan 3, with interest and charges to be repaid as well
as statutory interest paid on these sums. Mrs M also felt an apology from Barclays for the
distress caused to her and her family would be appropriate, and that any negative
information relating to this loan should be removed from her credit file.
As our investigator could not resolve things, the matter has come to me to decide. Before
reaching my findings I requested some further information from Barclays about what
happened when Mrs M first took out the loan. The additional information is referenced in my
findings below, and as these are my provisional findings both parties will have an opportunity
to respond once theyve had a chance to consider them.
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help Mrs M to be aware that our service has explained how we handle complaints
about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to
help me decide Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, while I agree with our investigator that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld,
my reasons for doing so differ as Ive set out below.Reviewing the submissions from both parties about how the loan was sold to Mrs M, it is not
clear to me exactly what happened. Mrs M says she was approached by Barclays on the
phone and Barclays, while initially suggesting the sale was colleague assisted on the
phone, have more recently said there was no sales call.
I asked Barclays to evidence their searches for a call with Mrs M from around the time in
question, and their screenshots show no record of a call. I also asked for a copy of Mrs Ms
credit agreement and this records that the sales channel was an online third-party broker
service. So while it seems most likely the application was made online, its difficult for me to
say with any certainty that Barclays did not speak to Mrs M at some point during the sales
process.
That said, Barclays still needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure
Mrs M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
There is no set list of what reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather
greater thoroughness might be reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of
income may be borrowing a high sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which
could potentially cost more in the longer term. Or it could be that a greater number of loans
taken out within short succession could potentially indicate that further scrutiny would be
warranted.
Barclays have said Mrs M would not have been offered the loan if she had not passed their
checking criteria. They explained that part of their checks involved reviewing a customers
account to assess the individuals income and expenditure, and they also used information
from the persons live credit file.
Mrs M was borrowing a significant amount, but Mrs M was also in permanent employment
on a good salary  as evidenced through her current account statements  earning on
average £3,400 net per month. She also received a regular monthly payment of £600 into
her account from Mr M towards the mortgage payment, as well as child benefit of £82.80.
Barclays submissions note that at the time, Mrs M had no adverse credit showing on her
credit file and that she was managing payments to her creditors. Barclays also completed a
retrospective income and expenditure assessment using Mrs Ms current account
statements, which they submit showed a monthly disposable income in the region of £1,700.
Given the above it would appear Mrs M was able to sustainably afford the new payments for
Loan 3. However, I think it would be fair to say there was more information available to
Barclays when considering Mrs Ms circumstances and I think it reasonable to say this would
have highlighted that further consideration was warranted to decide if lending to Mrs M
would be a fair thing to do.
Barclays submissions to this service hinted that their systems would have highlighted any
potential issues about Mrs Ms transaction history to them as part of their checks. With this in
mind, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that it wouldnt have taken much to bring to
light Mrs Ms struggles with gambling.
For example, through Mrs Ms current account statements its possible to see multiple
gambling transactions totalling over £1,000 in the six months prior to Mrs M taking out Loan
3.
And while Ive considered what Barclays have said about being a separate entity to
Barclaycard, Im mindful of the privacy terms Barclays have in place to share information
about their customers with other Barclays companies. I also understand it is possible forcustomers to view both their current account and Barclaycard account through the Barclays
app. So it doesnt seem a stretch or unreasonable to say Barclays systems would be able to
access Mrs Ms Barclaycard details or that they should use that information as part of what
they already know about their customer when considering a decision to lend a significant
amount of further money.
Im also mindful of Mrs Ms submissions that she alerted Barclays to her situation during a
phone call. She says she made it clear she was struggling with her gambling and that she
was doing this to try and clear her debts, and that the Barclays staff member told her the
loan would be a cheaper way of repaying her debts. While there appears to be no record of
the call, Mrs M has remained consistent with her submissions on this point and given she
approached the debt charity around six months after Loan 3 was taken out, I find it plausible
that Mrs M was looking for help.
In their submissions Barclays also mentioned Mrs Ms current account statements showing
that a large sum of money (£112,611) was paid into her current account in 2018, and that
subsequent large payments were made from these funds to Barclaycard and other third-
party creditors. As noted earlier, Mrs M said that by April 2019 she had again maxed out
her available credit. The available submissions set out that by April 2019 Mrs Ms
Barclaycard was over its limit with a balance of £20,219.
In view of the above, I therefore feel it wouldve been reasonable of Barclays to further query
Mrs Ms circumstances at that time given she had made a significant payment to reduce her
Barclaycard debt, but in a little over a year had exceeded the credit limit of £20,000 and was
applying for another loan.
Mrs Ms Barclaycard statements show that she was gambling heavily using her credit card.
And having queried Barclays about the transactions on Mrs Ms Barclaycard, it appears that
in the five months leading up to April 2019, Mrs Ms gambling transactions totalled around
£17,000.
While I agree it would appear from the checks Barclays did carry out that Mrs M was able to
afford the monthly payments for Loan 3, I have to consider - given the above  whether it
was fair in the circumstances for Barclays to approve Loan 3 for Mrs M. And taking
everything into account, Im unable to say that it was.
I think Barclays had information available to them about their customer that would have
highlighted Mrs Ms gambling to them, and I dont think it was unreasonable to say that
Barclays could have looked at this information given the size of the new loan. So I think with
minimal further investigation and questioning it would have been possible to see that Mrs M
was potentially vulnerable.
By agreeing Loan 3 and repaying Loan 2 Barclays was putting Mrs M in a worse financial
position as the interest rate on Loan 2 was lower than Loan 3, and with only around two
years remaining on Loan 2, rolling Loan 2 up into Loan 3 extended Mrs Ms time to repay
Loan 2 and increased the amount of interest she would pay for that borrowing.
After repaying Loan 2, this meant Mrs M was left with new money of £17,426, and while I
acknowledge this money and the purpose of Loan 3 was for debt consolidation, this did give
Mrs M access to money that could significantly increase her indebtedness if she did not use
all of it to repay existing debt and close down other revolving lines of credit available to her.
Given the level of Mrs Ms gambling, I think its fair to say if Barclays had better reviewed her
circumstances at the time they could have considered Mrs Ms vulnerability in terms of
making decisions about her financial affairs at this point and considered what measures theyhad available within the Barclays group to help her.
Taking everything into account, I therefore think Mrs M should not have been sold Loan 3
and so I cant say that Barclays decision to lend to Mrs M in April 2019 was fair in the
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays replied to say they accepted the provisional findings. 
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision and said that while it appeared her complaint 
had been upheld, it seemed that Barclays were getting away with irresponsible lending 
without even being asked to apologise for their part in her stress and anxiety, and losing her 
family home. Mrs M said she felt that big corporations were taking advantage of individuals 
and not being appropriately punished for their actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Ms additional comments in reply to my provisional decision, but there is 
nothing here to make me change my findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
The section below Putting things right also formed part of my provisional decision and set 
out to both parties what I proposed to fairly resolve the complaint, and responded to Mrs Ms 
previous request for an apology. I said: 
I understand Mrs M is also seeking an apology from Barclays for agreeing this loan. While I
understand Mrs Ms situation has not been easy, I feel it would be unfair to say that Barclays
should apologise given Mrs Ms overall circumstances are not a direct cause of Barclays
alone, and I think what I have suggested above to put things right is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs M was seeking the capital difference between Loan 2 and Loan 3, I 
maintain that this would not be fair given I am unable to ignore that Mrs M had use of the 
money. In the circumstances, I also see no reason to change what I previously said with 
regards to Mrs Ms request for an apology. 
Mrs M feels that Barclays should be punished. However, the role of this service is not to fine 
or punish firms  that is for the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to 
consider. The role of this service is to resolve complaints on the basis of what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
So based on my further considerations, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons above, 
and Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things right as Ive described below. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs M in the position she would now be in if she hadnt
been given Loan 3.However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about irresponsible lending. Mrs M
was given Loan 3 and she used the money. In these circumstances, Im unable to undo what
has already been done, and the loan agreement for Loan 2 no longer exists and cannot be
reinstated. So it isnt possible to put Mrs M back in the position she would be in if she had
not been given Loan 3 in the first place.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs M made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mrs M has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mrs M to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan (once Mrs M has repaid any outstanding balance).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK Plc to deduct tax from this interest.
Barclays Bank UK Plc should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted, if she asks for one.
It is my understanding that Barclays Bank UK Plc have not paid out the offer previously
made to Mrs M; however, if this has already been paid, then the payment already made
should be deducted from any sum calculated using the above approach.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my Final Decision is that Mrs Ms complaint is upheld and Barclays 
Bank UK Plc need to put things right as Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman