DRN-3433479
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked and closed his bank account and 
havent provided a proper explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer. He 
says this all led to him missing his loan repayments and his credit file being impacted 
negatively.
What happened
Mr S had a personal account with Santander.
 
In February 2019, Santander blocked and reviewed Mr Ss account. It completed the review 
in June 2019. Santander blocked Mr Ss account again between February 2020 and April 
2020. Following this, it decided to close Mr Ss account and wrote to him giving him 60 days 
notice that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements.
 
Mr S complained to the bank. He said hed missed his loan repayments due to his account 
being blocked and because of this his credit file had been adversely impacted. 
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong and had blocked Mr Ss account to comply 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. And that it had closed the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators said Santander had been entitled to block and close the account. And they 
werent obliged to provide Mr S with an explanation. The investigator also said that it was 
Mr Ss responsibility to rearrange his loan repayments. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S disagreed. He wants to know why Santander blocked and closed his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to review. 
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. In it I said the following:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Mr Ss account. Santander has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Santander were complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. And the terms of Mr Ss account. So, whilst I can 
appreciate the banks actions caused Mr S inconvenience  especially as the bank blocked 
his account more than once, I cant say the bank treated him unfairly.
I next turn to Santanders decision to close Mr Ss account. A bank can make its own 
decisions about who its prepared to offer banking services to. Santander have said it made 
the commercial decision to close Mr Ss accounts. And this service wont usually interfere 
with a banks commercial discretion. As the investigator explained, its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santanders gave Mr S 60 days notice. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Santander acted in line with them. So, it 
was entitled to close the account as it has already done. 
I know Mr S wants to know the reason why Santander decided to close his account, but the 
bank isnt obliged to share this with him. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to 
do so either as much as hed like to know. But I want to reassure Mr S that Ive looked at all 
the information provided by him and Santander, and there is nothing that would lead me to 
conclude Mr S has been treated unfairly. And that Santander have not exercised its 
commercial discretion legitimately.
Mr S has said that the block on his account led to him falling into arrears on his loan 
repayments and his credit record being impacted. Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to 
support what hes said about his credit file. So, Ive not considered this point further. I note 
too that Mr S appears to have made alternative arrangements to pay for his loan in March  
2019, very soon after his account was first blocked. I can see that he provided Santander 
with details of another account he held with a different bank so that his direct debit payments 
towards his loan could continue to be made. So, Ive not seen any evidence that the blocks 
to his Santander account meant he wasnt able to meet his loan repayments. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr S feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander has acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr S unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. So, I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mr S didnt provide anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ombudsman