DRN-2279267
The complaint
Mr F and Ms B are unhappy with the information provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited when dealing with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
Mr F was the policyholder dealing with Admiral, so for ease of reference, Ive referred to him 
throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mr F contacted Admiral on 1 October 2019 to discuss wet patches hed noticed on his 
kitchen ceiling. Mr F discussed this with call handler J, and was provided with information 
about how to make a claim. The claim notes recorded PH doesn't set the claim up at this 
point & he is aware that he needs to arrange a plumber to have the COD [cause of damage] 
sourced/confirmed. This will be his responsibility and provided the claim is valid, Admiral will 
cover the costs of the resultant water damage. 
Mr F contacted Admiral around half hour later, and a first notification of loss (FNOL) was 
recorded by Admiral. A claim was registered for escape of water (EOW) with call handler B. 
Mr F says that he was told by call handler B that Admiral would send someone out to assess 
the damage. Mr F says he understood that he wouldnt need to worry about instructing his 
own plumber to start with, and so he decided to let Admiral deal with his claim. Admiral have 
been unable to provide a recording of this call. 
About an hour later, a representative from the escape of water (EOW) team contacted Mr F 
to discuss next steps for his claim (call handler R). Admiral have provided a recording of this 
call. During this call Mr F was told that You do need to get a plumber out to help us validate 
the claim and find out where the water is coming from depending on value of claim as has 
to be more than your excess, your excess of course is £400. If however its not a valid claim, 
because the water is escaping because of say sealant, then none of it is covered.  
Mr F complained about the what he was told during the FNOL call. He said I was under the 
impression once I put this claim in youre going to send someone from your company, 
validate this claim, have a look at where the leak is coming from, cost it all up, thats how I 
thought it was going to work Mr F said he wouldnt have registered a claim if hed been 
told about needing to find a plumber first. He said he wouldve waited until the plumbers 
report had found the cause of damage before deciding whether to make a claim under his 
home insurance policy with Admiral. Mr Fs complaint was logged. 
On 4 October Mr F contacted Admiral to ask for an update on his claim. The claim notes 
recorded clarified next steps with claim advised he needs to contact plumber to find and 
repair the leak On 10 October Admiral received notification that Mr F didnt want to 
continue with his claim. 
On 31 October Admiral responded to Mr Fs complaint, saying that they wouldnt be doing 
anything in settlement of it. Admiral informed Mr F that they couldnt locate the FNOL call. 
But based on the earlier call with call handler J, and the later call with call handler R from the 
EOW team, the information provided to Mr F about needing to source his own plumber to 
determine the cause of the water damage, was correct. Admiral also found that the 
timescale in dealing with the claim was reasonable. Admiral confirmed that the claim would 
be recorded on Mr Fs insurance claim record. 
Mr F was unhappy with this response, saying that he was provided with incorrect information 
which led him to making a claim, and his insurance premium has increased. Unhappy with 
Admirals response, Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator contacted Admiral to find out how Mr Fs claim had been recorded. As 
Admiral didnt co-operate with our investigation, the investigator relied on Mr Fs testimony to 
determine the complaint. 
The investigator found that Admiral shouldve treated Mr Fs claim as a notification only, and 
asked that they update their claim record to reflect this, and refund Mr F the difference in 
cost of his insurance premium since the claim was recorded. The investigator also 
recommended £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr F by Admirals 
poor handling of the claim. Mr F accepted these findings. Admiral didnt respond to the 
investigators findings. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 September 2020 saying that I dont uphold this 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr F feels strongly that his claim has been incorrectly recorded for reporting purposes, and 
this has had an adverse impact on the cost of his home insurance premiums. The Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) records details of any incident its made aware of, and 
whether it leads to a claim or not. Claims remain on CUE for six years from the date the 
claim is closed. 
I checked the information recorded on CUE for Mr Fs claim. It shows the status of Mr Fs 
claim as withdrawn. From what Mr F and Admiral have explained about the circumstances 
of Mr Fs claim, I think this status is a fair reflection of what happened. So I dont agree with 
the investigators findings about Admiral needing to take any action to update, or change 
whats been recorded with CUE in respect of Mr Fs claim.
Mr F says that he was provided with incorrect information during the FNOL, which led him to 
making a claim under his home insurance policy. He says during the initial call with call 
handler J, he wasnt sure whether Admiral would send a plumber out or not. He says he 
called a second time, and spoke to call handler B, who told him that Admiral would arrange 
for a plumber. Mr F says it was this information which led him to making a claim.  
Admiral havent provided either of these two call recordings. They have provided case notes 
of the initial call with call hander J. These case notes indicate that Mr F was clearly told that 
hed need to arrange a plumber to have the COD [cause of damage] sourced/confirmed. 
Admiral say the subsequent FNOL call wasnt recorded due to a technical issue. So they 
havent been able to verify what Mr F was told when the claim was set-up. 
Without the FNOL call recording, its difficult to determine what induced Mr F into making a 
claim under his home insurance policy. So Ive looked at all the evidence as a whole in 
deciding what would be a fair outcome, and whether Admiral needs to do anything to put 
things right. Mr F would like Admiral to change the way the claim has been recorded. But 
having considered all the evidence, I think the information with CUE fairly represents what 
happened with the claim. Mr F accepted the investigators findings about the claim being recorded as notification 
only. So Mr F accepts that he notified Admiral of wanting to make a claim. Mr F has 
highlighted the impact on his premiums, and I can appreciate the disappointment with this 
cost increasing. But changing a record from claim to notification only wouldnt necessarily 
mean that the cost of his insurance premium would be lower. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Admiral to change the way the claim has 
been recorded because of the impact (if any) on the cost of Mr Fs insurance premium. Wed 
only ask Admiral to do something to put things right, if there was evidence that theyd done 
something wrong. It has since been confirmed that the claim has been recorded as 
withdrawn. I think this status fairly reflects of what happened with Mr Fs claim. 
Mr F had two conversations with Admiral before reaching a decision to make a claim under 
his policy. Its not disputed that a claim was set up. The calls were half an hour apart, so Mr 
F had time to think about his options before deciding what to do. Mr F feels strongly that the 
ease of Admiral organising a plumber to look into the cause of damage, determined his 
decision to make a claim. But I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that this 
was the reason in itself for Mr F making a claim. 
It is common practice in an insurance claim of this type for a policyholder to involve/ instruct 
their own third party, to provide an estimate or opinion about the work that needs to be done. 
Theres nothing to suggest this wouldve been particularly onerous/ difficult for Mr F to 
arrange. Although Mr F may have chosen to make his claim with the knowledge that Admiral 
would deal with the initial sourcing of a plumber, I cant say that the claim wouldnt have 
gone ahead if Admiral had done more to highlight this.
As it stands, Mr F did make a claim on his home insurance policy. He later withdrew from the 
process. So the record on CUE currently reflects what actually happened. 
I accept that the absence of the FNOL call recording leaves open the question of what 
induced Mr F to make a claim. And my findings are likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
F, who believes strongly that he was provided with incorrect information. But the current 
record on CUE fairly reflects what happened with Mr Fs claim. And on balance I dont think 
Admiral did something wrong which led Mr F into making a claim. 
For the reasons provided I wont be asking Admiral to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr F but this means I dont intend to tell 
Admiral to pay the £100 our investigator recommended for trouble and upset.
Responses
Mr F didnt agree with my provisional decision. His comments include:
1.the complaint is that a claim would have never been registered in the first place if I 
had been given the correct information. So regardless that is shows as 'withdrawn' it 
shouldn't have been
2.The works completed was less than my excess. So again why would i make a claim?
3.You think Admiral haven't done anything wrong even though you can see this £50.00 
charge on the CUE database? Even though they physically did NOTHING
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F feels strongly that it was the information provided to him by Admiral which determined 
his decision to make a claim under his policy. He says that if hed been told from the outset 
that hed still have to pay his excess before Admiral would meet any claim costs, he 
wouldve made an informed decision on what to do.
Ive considered what Mr F has explained about the excess. But I dont think it would be 
reasonable to say that Admiral acted unfairly because this wasnt explained in the initial call, 
as Mr F has described. 
Ive seen that Mr Fs policy summary did clearly state that there would be a £400 excess. So 
this information was made known to him by Admiral at the time he took out his insurance 
policy. Without the call recording, I cant say whether this was clearly explained in the earlier 
calls with Admiral. But with the evidence I have seen, I think the service provided by Admiral 
was reasonable. 
Mr F says you can see this £50.00 charge on the CUE database? Even though they 
physically did NOTHING. The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) shows a charge of 
£50 for this claim, to reflect the cost of instructing the third party. 
Shortly after Mr F set up the claim, Admiral instructed a third party to contact him about the 
claim. Admiral found out that Mr F didnt want to continue with the claim after the third party 
told them that Mr F had been in touch with them directly. At this point, the claim was 
cancelled. Although the claim was cancelled, the third partys costs still needed to be met. 
So I think its reasonable that CUE has reflected what happened with the claim, and costs 
involved. 
Mr F is concerned about the cost of his home insurance premiums because of this claim 
showing on CUE. The cost of any insurance premium is determined by a number of factors. 
Some of these factors are commercially sensitive and we wouldnt expect a business to tell 
us what they are. It wouldnt be fair for me to direct Admiral to take action to put things right, 
unless I could see evidence that theyd done something wrong. 
I can appreciate Mr Fs disappointment with the claim showing on his record as withdrawn, 
and the cost of £50 involved. But the evidence Ive seen supports that the information on 
CUE fairly reflects what happened with this claim. So I wont be asking Admiral to do 
anything in settlement of Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman