DRN-3269058
The complaint
Mr B complained that the settlement of his claim made by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
under his home insurance policy was unfair and he was unhappy with the service UKI 
provided.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr B made a claim under his policy when a soil stack / soil pipe failed 
resulting in damage to his kitchen.  Mr B said he advised UKI on 10 December 2020 that his 
plumber had completed a temporary repair. He informed UKI that his floor and kitchen units 
were contaminated and would need replacing.
A week later, UKI appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and validate the claim. 
Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the loss adjuster was unable to visit and assessed the damage 
remotely by video on 7 January 2021.
A drying company visited on 21 January 2021 to scope the strip out of the kitchen and the 
subsequent drying needs. The builders stripped the kitchen on 8 February 2021 and UKI 
started paying a £50 disturbance allowance for the purpose of hot meals. Mr B said only the 
damaged base units needed to be replaced, the rest of the kitchen was suitable to remove 
and reinstate.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the quality of the replacement kitchen units offered by UKI, he 
thought they were of inferior quality. However, UKI said the units were of equal or better 
standard than those fitted before. As an agreement couldnt be reached, UKI followed a 
course to agree a cash settlement with Mr B. Mr B was unhappy with the service provided by 
UKI and its contractors during this period.
Mr B wasnt happy with UKIs plans to lay his underfloor heating directly on to a concrete 
slab. He thought this was environmentally unethical (through inefficient heat loss), and he 
thought it would add to his heating bills. He said previously there was an insulation build up 
along with the adhesive. So, Mr B said he would be willing to pay for insulation boards / 
matts, but UKI wouldnt consider the fitting costs as it said it wasnt covered by the policy. 
UKI said I understand you have advised that the matts should be considered under 
buildings regulations, which our surveyors advised does not apply in this situation. In order 
to investigate the matter, we appointed an independent surveyor to provide a detailed 
opinion as to the regulations. It was their considered opinion that they did not apply, and we 
are happy to make their full report available to you should you require it. As such we are 
unable to consider the matter any further.
UKI offered Mr B a cash settlement of £25,984 for the required works (re-instatement costs 
£12,956, disturbance allowance £2,950, kitchen £10,078). Mr B disagreed with the offer for 
the kitchen and UKI increased this by £1,000 as consideration for some minor issues raised. 
Mr B said he had no choice but to accept the offer, but he said he didnt agree with it and it 
wasnt negotiable. Mr B said the reinstallation costs were unknown, but he thought they were 
low. He said he has since found out they have not covered the actual cost. With Covid and 
a shortage of installers the cost has been more than wouldve been expected as well as 
some of the allowance been insufficient in the first place.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought UKI had sought expert 
advice at the appropriate times to guide its decisions and he thought these decisions were 
reasonable. He thought as an agreement couldnt be made over certain aspects, UKI was 
fair to offer a cash settlement in order that the claim could be resolved. Mr B disagreed, so 
the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see two main strands to this complaint  the settlement of the claim and the overall 
service provided by UKI. The complaint about settlement related specifically to how UKI 
chose to settle the claim in relation to the kitchen units and the flooring. 
I have started by considering the process that was followed for deciding the settlement of the 
kitchen. UKI agreed that the kitchen units were damaged and agreed to replace these, which 
I think was reasonable. However, UKI was only able to offer one specific kitchen unit type to 
Mr B from its supplier base which it felt matched closely to the units that were damaged.
Mr B was unhappy with the units UKI proposed, as he thought the units were of inferior 
quality. Mr B said his original unit doors were 24mm thick, compared to 18mm thick for the 
units proposed by UKI. However, UKI said, [it] appreciate[s] the client believes the kitchen 
we are suggesting is a lower quality door thickness than his previously fitted kitchen but 
industry standards have changed since his kitchen was fitted 10 years ago and we are 
certain this still represents a like for like replacement or slightly better.
As a direct replacement of Mr Bs units wasnt available and Mr B said himself didnt know 
where his supplier sourced his original units from, I think UKI has been reasonable in trying 
to find alternative units that were a close match to the previous units. This is what UKI was 
required to do under the policy.
However, as there was a contradicting view between the parties on the quality of the units, 
UKI sought an independent view from another surveyor and did some further research 
themselves. I can see UKI wrote to Mr B in some detail explaining why it thought the 
proposed units were a good match, of sufficient quality and could be adapted so the kitchen 
could be laid out in a similar way to the existing design (e.g. explaining how the units around 
the oven and fridge / freezer could be adapted).
I think UKI has acted reasonably in providing Mr B with the option it did for new units. As the 
kitchen was old, a direct replacement wasnt possible. I think UKI has taken Mr Bs concerns 
seriously, and I think it has reasonably sought a third party to check what it offered was fair. 
Mr B explained that some of his previous kitchen was of a bespoke design, but UKI said it 
would be able to reproduce this with the units offered. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest the proposed units were of inferior quality. I have viewed photographs of the 
proposed units against the old ones and Im persuaded that UKI wouldve been able to 
create a similar kitchen to the one taken out if it had been given the opportunity.
I understand Mr B wouldve liked UKI to have searched the market more to find a better 
match of units, or ones he was happy with. However, I think its reasonable to source the 
units from its own network of suppliers, where it has arranged commercial rates. As UKI found units that were a close match, it didnt have an obligation under the policy to offer Mr B 
other options.
Mr B declined the kitchen, so UKI offered Mr B a cash settlement for the kitchen units to try 
and resolve the claim. I think this was a reasonable approach, as Mr B had declined the 
other option that was available. Mr B was unhappy with the cash settlement offered. He said 
he couldnt buy a kitchen and get it fitted for the money offered. I know this would be 
extremely frustrating and disappointing for Mr B, but I dont think UKI has acted unfairly. Ill 
explain why I think this.
As I think UKI made a fair offer to Mr B for the supply and fit of a similar kitchen to the one 
he had before, I think UKI has met the policy conditions. The cash settlement is an 
appropriate course of action in these circumstances, where Mr B has rejected the option put 
forward. Our services approach here is to say an insurer cant force a replacement of 
damaged property and think its fair the insurer offers a cash settlement as an alternative. 
However, its considered fair if the insurer provides a cash settlement equivalent to the costs 
it wouldve incurred itself in supplying the goods and completing the works. I think UKI has 
done this in this complaint, so I wont be upholding this aspect of the complaint. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr B, but in offering a similar kitchen UKI has indemnified Mr B as 
the policy intended, so its not fair UKI would be expected to cash settle at rates higher than 
it could do the work itself. 
I did note, Mr B said he wouldve been happy keeping some of his original units and he 
thought this option was taken away from him. I havent seen evidence that Mr B told UKI at 
the start of the claim this is how he wanted his claim to be resolved. So, I dont think its fair 
to hold this against UKI. Im also not convinced this was a plausible approach as the 
evidence shows the base units couldnt be re-used. And, I dont think any part replacement 
of the kitchen wouldve made sense as the units werent an exact match, just a close match. 
So, its likely this solution wouldve less ideal than a new kitchen. 
The other part to Mr Bs complaint was UKIs decision not to allow in their settlement the 
labour costs for heating mats to support his underfloor heating. Mr B said this was required 
to meet building regulations. UKI said this wasnt a like for like replacement, so it wouldnt 
cover the cost of this even if Mr B paid the material cost. UKI said the labour costs to fit the 
mats would be a significant extra as the floor height would need adjusting. So, as the policy 
didnt cover this, UKI said it wouldnt cover this cost.
Mr B said he contacted a chartered surveyor and he said, if more than 50% of your flooring 
is being refurbished then part L of the current building regulations applies. Mr B said he 
spoke to Building Control and whilst he openly said their views were subjective, four different 
areas confirmed the regulations applied.
Given the different views held, UKI appointed an independent surveyor to review what had 
been proposed and report his findings. I think its a reasonable approach to use an external 
party to provide an independent view where two parties dont agree. So, I have looked at 
what was reported.
The surveyor has written a report that explains the building regulations in relation to
flooring works. I have read the report in detail. It is clear and well written. The conclusion of 
the report states replacement of the tiling and underfloor heating mats would
not meet the threshold for Renovation under Approved Document L1B, and therefore the 
50% criteria under regulation 23 is not applicable at all. Replacement of the tiling and 
underfloor heating can be carried out on a like-for-like basis. The commentary within the report provides a compelling and persuasive argument that 
supports the conclusion. I think UKI has been fair in using the expert report to inform its 
reasoning to Mr B for not been able to cover the labour costs in relation to the flooring mats. 
I appreciate Mr B has gone to some length to set out the regulations himself and has spoken 
to several representatives who work in building control. However, as UKI has used an expert 
and his findings are documented, I think this evidence holds more weight. So, on the 
balance of probabilities, I think UKI has been right to decline this part of the claim. I cant say 
the approach UKI has taken in these circumstances is unreasonable or unfair. I know Mr B 
holds a different opinion, but UKI has made a decision based on the documented evidence 
provided by an expert. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Mr B raised concerns about the service he received from the contractors during this claim 
process. He was unhappy with the professionalism of the loss adjuster and fell out with the 
builder. UKI is responsible for the contractors it chooses to employ. I can see Mr B has been 
frustrated and annoyed with the progress of his claim and the relationship with his builder. 
However, I havent seen evidence which suggests UKI hasnt followed a reasonable process 
during this claim. I think the breakdown in relationships has been caused as the parties have 
disagreed on some points of the claim. However, I think UKI has communicated clearly with 
Mr B and provided evidence to support its decisions. I think UKI has listened to Mr Bs 
concerns and shown flexibility, such as when it increased the settlement by £1,000 in 
response to a few smaller issues raised. I appreciate it wouldve been difficult for Mr B 
arrange his own contractors to do the work. But, as he wasnt happy with what UKI proposed 
for the reinstatement works (the flooring mats) and the kitchen (units), I dont think UKI 
couldve done anything else but offer the cash settlement. So, as I havent seen evidence 
that UKI has provided an unsatisfactory service, I dont uphold this final part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman