DRN-2413196
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about a Virgin One Account mortgage she has with The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
 
Mrs A says that various facility limit increases were applied for fraudulently by her now 
ex-husband, and shes unhappy that RBS is unable to find copies of all the signed 
agreements. 
 
What happened
I issued a decision in November 2020 setting out which parts of Mrs As complaint we could 
consider. In that I concluded  the only part of this complaint Ill be considering is whether 
£500 is sufficient compensation for the missing documents. 
 
Our investigator said £500 was a reasonable offer, and that it was more than wed normally 
award for a similar issue. Mrs A didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken note of everything Mrs A has said, and I was sorry to read about the difficult time 
shes been through. I wont be responding to each and every point, or in as much detail. No 
discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role in it. 
 
Mrs A has said that RBS is complicit in her ex-husbands criminal behaviour and I 
understand Mrs A believes that RBS has chosen to misplace or destroy the documents. 
But the available evidence doesnt point to that. The documents we are talking about go 
back to 2001, with the most recent being from July 2004. RBS had admitted it should have 
retained all the paperwork until six years after the mortgage ended, but its not unusual for a 
lender to not have a complete file of historical paperwork. I see it fairly often, and its not due 
to a choice made by the lender to withhold or destroy evidence. Its just an unfortunate fact 
when a lender is dealing with so many accounts, each potentially with a lot of paperwork, 
things go astray. 
 
I understand Mrs A feels it would be easier to prove her case if she had all the paperwork, 
but she has two signed agreements. I understand she says she signed the 2007 one 
unaware what it was, but that she didnt sign the 2005 one. In any event, even if Mrs A did 
have all the paperwork its not unusual in cases like this for that to be inconclusive as there 
are many reasons why a signature may not perfectly match that held on file. 
 
To be clear, Im not saying any complaint Mrs A may make about the alleged fraud wont be 
successful, Im just mentioning it here to explain why Im satisfied the missing paperwork 
isnt the win or lose evidence Mrs A may think it is, such that more compensation is 
warranted. 
 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. RBS has accepted it let Mrs A down by not being able to provide copies of all the 
paperwork and it has apologised for that. 
 
Mrs A says £500 isnt enough compensation. Its not our role to fine or punish a business 
and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can make the paperwork 
appear, and Mrs As request that all the increases be written off isnt proportionate to the 
mistake.  
 
Although I recognise Mrs As strength of feeling - and whilst acknowledging what a difficult 
time shes had - I consider the offer of £500 compensation to be fair. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc made a fair offer in its response to the complaint. I leave it to Mrs A to decide if 
 on reflection  she now wishes to accept that offer directly with RBS. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman