DRN-4239845
The complaint
Mr H complains about the affordability of a hire purchase agreement provided by Advantage 
Finance Limited (Advantage). 
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr H said it himself.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr H acquired a used caravan through a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage. The agreement ran for 60 months, Mr H was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £313.75 and a final payment of £488.75. 
In December 2022 Mr H complained to Advantage. In summary he said the finance 
shouldve been deemed unaffordable as he had very little, or no money left over after paying 
his bills and debts each month. He also said his income changed between taking out and 
repaying the lending, but Advantage didnt check. 
Advantage looked into Mr Hs concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said 
appropriate checks had been made as to whether Mr H could afford the agreement and said 
the loan was affordable. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because she didnt think there was 
enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr H. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided Advantage dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Advantage to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
a. If it did, was the decision to then lend to Mr H fair?
b. If it didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr H about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check in order to understand how Mr H managed his existing and previous finance 
arrangements. It also verified Mr Hs income using Current Account Turnover data, 
confirmed his accommodation type, his employment and that he had no dependents. It used 
statistical data specific to Mr Hs location and household to estimate his likely expenditure on 
rent, utilities and council tax. 
Advantage also considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and 
made an allowance of approximately £1,300. It noted that even after the estimated expenses 
had been taken into account, Mr H would have had enough disposable income to afford 
monthly repayments of £313.75. 
I think Advantage made a reasonable assessment of Mr Hs likely expenditure and, whilst I 
accept Advantage didnt consider every individual expense Mr H was likely to incur, it had 
allowed around £1,300 for those expenses. I think this was a considerable amount of 
headroom after the main expenses of rent, utilities and council tax had been taken into 
consideration. 
Having said that, Ive reviewed the credit check provided by Advantage and I dont think the 
checks were proportionate, given that the check revealed amongst other things that Mr H 
had a county court judgement with an outstanding balance. Further, he had two additional 
hire purchase (HP) agreements prior to taking this one out with Advantage. Both HP 
agreements had outstanding balances and were intended to run for a considerable length of 
time. These three active accounts alone had a total outstanding balance of approximately 
£14,300. I also think Advantage couldve been more specific in asking Mr H about his 
monthly expenditure to assess his circumstances at the time, rather than relying on 
statistical data. 
Advantage says, due to Mr H passing its internal credit check it didnt think it needed to 
verify anything further before approving the finance. But given the outstanding amount of the 
active accounts along with the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the 
term of the agreement I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to have done 
more to ensure it was affordable. So, I find Advantage didnt complete proportionate checks 
in the circumstances of this case. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H could sustainably repay 
the borrowing? 
Ive thought about whether Advantage would still have chosen to lend money to Mr H if it had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
I cant be certain what evidence Advantage would have asked Mr H to provide or what 
questions it would have asked him. But having reviewed Mr Hs credit file I can see he had 
two active current accounts. Ive seen some bank statements for one account but Mr H has 
failed to provide a set of statements for his other account as he said he doesnt recall having 
another account. He doesnt deny being employed at the time, but he also hasnt provided 
other evidence such as pay slips. 
Having reviewed the bank statements Mr H has sent us I dont think they contain enough 
information to establish what his daily living and committed expenditure at the time would 
have likely been. This is because the bank statements provided show little committed monthly expenses and do not show any form of employment income. I appreciate Mr H has 
said he received his employment income by other means, but again he hasnt provided any 
evidence for me to consider this further. And so, Im unable to see what his overall income 
and expenditure was at the time, this means I cant say that the agreement should have 
been considered unaffordable. 
I have thought about the income and expenditure Advantage considered in 2018. From the 
information it provided I can see it estimated Mr H wouldve been left with a disposable 
income of around £1,300 out of which making a monthly repayment of £313.75 wouldve 
been affordable.  So even if Advantage had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, I think its fair to determine that the repayments wouldve appeared to be affordable.  
Im therefore not persuaded that Advantage acted unfairly in approving the finance.
As Mr H hasnt been able to demonstrate that his agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Advantage ought to have known he may struggle to make the 
repayments due under the agreement.
I appreciate Mr H has indicated that the borrowing was unaffordable but the question for me 
is what Advantage would have been able to find out if it requested further information from 
him at the time of lending. But as Ive said, in the absence of any information from 
Mr H I am unable to see what Advantage would likely have seen if it had carried out further 
checks.
Advantage has provided me with what information it did rely on which Ive outlined above 
and based on this I cant fairly say it made an unfair lending decision. 
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Whilst Ive carefully thought about everything Mr H has told us, Im afraid it doesnt affect my 
findings. I dont think there is enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr H, or that Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in any 
other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman