DRN-4419204
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way in which QIC Europe Limited (QIC) handled a claim 
under his home insurance policy following a fire at his home.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term QIC includes its agents, loss adjusters and contractors
for the purposes of this decision letter.
What happened
Mr A took out his home insurance policy with QIC in January 2022. Unfortunately, Mr As
property was very badly damaged in a fire in April 2022 and most of the contents and
personal belongings were ruined. The damage included destruction of the roof, and ceilings
had collapsed into the rooms and water had poured into the ground floor rooms. The fire had
been caused by faulty solar panel equipment. Mr A promptly reported the matter to QIC and
QIC accepted the claim.
Mr A complained to QIC that his claim was taking too long to progress, that QICs
communications had been poor, and it hadnt provided adequate updates. He considered
that the alternative accommodation hed found wasn't suitable for long-term occupation. He
also considered that QICs offer to settle the contents portion of the claim for £35k was
inadequate. QIC offered £200 in compensation for certain delays but didnt think that it had
acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner regarding its settlement offer for the contents or
in relation to alternative accommodation.
Mr A was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to QIC, and he therefore referred his
complaint to this service. The relevant investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She appreciated
Mr As frustration as he wanted to return to his home and the claim had taken some time.
However, she stated that unfortunately this type of claim could be lengthy. She didnt uphold
the complaints regarding the alternative accommodation and the contents. However, she
considered that QIC had caused claim and administrative delays and recommended that
QIC pay Mr A £325 in compensation. QIC has since agreed this amount.
Mr A remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In September 2023, I 
issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold 
Mr As complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to consider is whether QIC has treated Mr A in a fair and reasonable
manner in its handling of his claim. My provisional conclusion is that it hasnt acted in a fair
and reasonable manner in all respects. Ill explain why. In reaching this provisional decision 
Ive also considered the submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Mr A described the devastating impact of the fire at his home. His complaint revolved around
what he considered to be avoidable delays in progress and felt that it had taken QIC 16 to 17
months to get something in place. He said that the initial promise by QIC was that hed be
back in his home by Christmas 2022. He still had to pay a mortgage on somewhere he
couldnt live. QIC had eventually arranged for contractors to start work with some bits of
wood for a roof but no tiles in May 2023, with the property still open to the elements. Mr A
was then told that it couldnt get materials such as plaster, windows, and doors. He thought
that it would be another 17 months before hed be back in his home.
Regarding QICs argument that it found asbestos which delayed putting a roof on, he said
that the adjoining property had to have its roof replaced due to the fire, but no asbestos was
found on that adjoining roof. Mr A also referred to a mix up regarding a local authority fee of
just under £500. QICs agent had said the local authority was holding up a permission even
though the contractors were in place, whereas the authority was simply awaiting payment of
the fee and the roofing could have commenced 48 hours later. Mr A paid this sum himself at
the beginning of March 2023. Mr A then rang the claims handler 12 times but still no work
was carried out and he was reimbursed for the payment at the end of April 2023.
Mr A said that a claims handler was allocated to the claim, however every time Mr A rang for
updates, he hadnt been able to contact him. He said he spoke to different QIC
representatives who said the claims handler would be in touch. Hed been awaiting a call for
quite a few months now. However, Mr A said he heard about matters such as delivery of
materials to his property from neighbours rather than from QIC. Mr A said that it was bad
enough losing all of his treasured memories such as photographs, but he said that the
insurance episode was now seriously affecting his, and his partners mental health. He said;
Surely having building and home contents insurance we should be helped and not ignored.
As to the contents of the property, Mr A said that the cost of most items had increased
immensely. With regard to certain personal and household items, Mr A said that these were
very expensive and were presents from family over the years. He said he was never given
the opportunity to salvage them and would love to know what happened to them.
As to alternative accommodation, Mr A and his partner initially went to stay with a relative.
He then sourced a one-bed bungalow as it was on a month-to-month basis, until QIC could
find them a three-bedroom property, so they could accommodate the grandchildren at
weekends. Mr A said hed asked on many occasions on the QIC portal for it to find
somewhere more suitable, but this never happened. Mr A acknowledged that QIC sent a link
which he said he couldnt open.
I now turn to QICs submissions regarding this case. As to the length of time it had taken to
reinstate Mr As property, QIC said its fair to say that a claim of this nature will take time to
resolve due to the large scale of the works required. It described the initial steps taken as
regards this claim, to include a surveyors site visits and certain mitigation works which were
carried out by the end of May 2022. It said that make safe works were undertaken in June
and July 2022 and reference was made to asbestos in the debris. It said the contractor was
also tasked with checking permission requirements for the roof in July and that it was
necessary to reinstate the roof before a full scope of work to reinstate the internal damage
at the property can be finalised.
QIC said that it had to gather information for the local authority and due to the extent of the
roofing work required, this took some time to source and prepare. Debris was cleared in
September 2022 and a contents list compiled with a contents cash offer made in October
2022. In October and November 2022, contents disposal and environmental clean was
carried out. In December 2022, QIC said that the local authority confirmed that a planning
application was required for roofing works.
The contractor confirmed that it submitted the appropriate application in early January 2023,
however the local authority sent its invoice to Mr A instead of to the contractor. In early
March 2023, Mr A confirmed that hed paid the relevant fee and QIC refunded this in April.
The local authority granted approval for the roofing works in April 2023. QIC said the
contractor could then book in the work but due to their lead times, they could not begin thiswork until the first week of June. It said, Once the roofing works are completed, we will look
to finalise the scope of work for the remaining reinstatement work that is required, so our
contractor can book in a start date for the work. QIC felt that it had attempted to progress
the works as soon as possible and it said that the claim was mainly delayed due to the local
council building control granting approval for the works
In the meantime, QIC said it reviewed the contents settlement. Due to the extent of the
damage to the contents, it offered settlement at the value of the contents the policyholder
declared when they renewed their policy. This amount was £35,000. QIC said that it had
given Mr A the opportunity to evidence his loss for contents over and above the amount
offered in the form of images or invoices and receipts but to date, it hadnt received this. If
provided, it said it would be happy to review this settlement further.
With regard to alternative accommodation, QIC stated that at the end of April 2022, Mr A had
informed QIC that he had been contacted by someone who had an available property to rent
and that this alternative accommodation was agreed. It accepted that Mr A had contacted
QIC in mid-May 2022 to advise that he no longer felt the accommodation was suitable as it
required cleaning. QIC said that it had provided alternatives to Mr A but that no reply was
received and at the end of May 2022 and six-months worth of rental was paid.
In summary, QIC didnt accept that it was responsible for all delays between January and
April 2023. It felt that compensation of £200 would be more appropriate, in light of the
reasons it had outlined, although it ultimately accepted the recommendation to pay £325.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence and submissions, the reasons for my
provisional decision are as follows. I note that the policy covers the property and contents up
to particular values in the event of fire, subject to the usual exclusions and conditions. With
regard to alternative accommodation, it states that QIC will pay reasonable and necessary
costs of alternative accommodation and any rent which the policyholder may have to pay.
The insured event in this case was a catastrophic fire, which would clearly require very well
co-ordinated and planned claims management and reinstatement of the property. This would
inevitably be a complex project involving a number of agents and contractors. Looking at the
first phase of QICs response to the event, between the end of April and early July 2022, I
consider that the timescales for this response werent unfair or unreasonable.
By July 2022, QIC had asked its contractors to progress roof fitting and also became aware
of the possible presence of asbestos in the debris. It had also realised that it would be
necessary to contact the local authority regarding permission requirements for the roof
works. In turn, the roof needed to be reinstated before a full scope of works could be
finalised for the internal works. However, there is no evidence to demonstrate efforts to
contact and diligently progress an application to the local authority between July and
January 2023. I consider six months was an unreasonable timescale for submitting such an
application. Certain items were progressed during this period, such as arranging quotes,
property clearance and eventually asbestos testing and removal, further making safe and
scoping of works. Im persuaded from the available evidence that there was asbestos
present in the debris, and I agree clearance of asbestos may have caused some delay to the
overall process. However, on a provisional basis, I consider that an application to the local
authority regarding the roof should have progressed in parallel with these other work items.
I appreciate that there was then some confusion between January and April 2023 which
stemmed from the local authority sending documents and an invoice to Mr A rather than to
the contractor. As the local authority fee hadnt been paid due to this confusion, this delayed
the issue of the permission. I agree with our investigator in this respect that QIC cant be
held responsible for all delays during this period. However, some confusion was caused dueto QIC confirming that the fee had been settled by the contractor. This is likely to have
caused a further months delay. I appreciate that it would then be necessary for works to be
scheduled and I cant say that the lead-in time for work to be progressed between April and
June 2023 was unreasonable.
As to communication with the policyholder and support during the claims process, Ive
carefully considered the exchanges on QICs portal. While Mr As communication was
intemperate on occasions, some of his frustration about delays were justified. I consider that
QIC could have done more to ensure that Mr A was given regular support and updates on
progress in the circumstances. The confusion over payment of the local authority fee
exemplifies avoidable communication issues and which inevitably increased Mr As distress
at an extremely difficult time.
With regard to the contents which were destroyed in the fire, it appears that some minor
items were salvaged and then cleaned, wrapped and stored. I note that QIC offered £35k to
settle the claim, being the amount Mr A declared it would cost to replace the contents,
including valuables in his home, should an incident of this nature occur. I note that QIC has
said it would be happy to consider any other losses over and above this amount if it received
evidence to support such additional loss and I consider this to be a fair offer. I can
understand that any paper evidence will have been destroyed in the fire. I also understand
that it would have been difficult for Mr A to have tried to evidence any additional valuations.
However, I note that QIC has offered the total amount declared by Mr A as the replacement
value in early 2022 and Mr A would therefore need to show why £35k is no longer a fair
value, bearing in mind that some of the items have been salvaged. On a provisional basis, I 
therefore dont intend to uphold this element of Mr As complaint.
As to alternative accommodation, I note that Mr A had quickly arranged accommodation as
from May 2022. However, he soon realised that this wasnt suitable and informed QIC of
this. I note that QIC had already issued a rent payment for six months. It then sent a list of
rental properties and asked Mr A to review them. I note that Mr A again expressed
dissatisfaction regarding the alternative accommodation on other occasions. However, I
agree with the services investigator here that QIC had acted in a fair and reasonable
manner and had kept channels open for Mr A to source more suitable accommodation. QIC
will be expected to continue to engage with, and support Mr A to ensure that his needs are
met in this respect. On a provisional basis however, I cant say that QIC acted unfairly or
unreasonably during the period referenced in the current complaint.
In conclusion, I cant say that QIC has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in relation
to the elements of his complaint about the house contents and alternative accommodation
up until April 2023. However, this doesnt preclude Mr A from raising any further complaints
with QIC for any further matters concerning his claim. On a provisional basis however, I dont
consider that QIC fairly and reasonably progressed the claim, in particular with regard to the
roof. The evidence indicates that it didnt diligently and proactively proceed with obtaining the
necessary permission regarding roof replacement between July 2022 and January 2023.
I appreciate that a catastrophic fire and loss of a home and personal belongings will cause a
huge amount of worry, distress and inconvenience. Whilst the incident itself is outside the
insurers control, the prompt and diligent handling of claims is within its control. Complex
claims of this nature which require total reinstatement of a property, will inevitably be difficult
and lengthy. However, I provisionally conclude that it shouldnt have taken six months to
lodge an application for permission to the local authority. This will have inevitably mean[t] 
that it will take longer for Mr A to return to his home. [It] will also have prolonged the distress, 
upset and worry over many more weeks than was necessary. I also consider that QICs
communication and support for the policyholder was not as effective as it could have been.
In the circumstances, I consider that £1,000 would be a fair and reasonable level ofcompensation in relation to this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both QIC and Mr A if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its pleasing to note from information supplied by Mr A that QIC has now arranged for the 
roof of Mr As property to be replaced, although Mr A also describes on-going issues which 
are unfortunately outside the scope of this decision letter. However, Mr A hasnt provided 
any other evidence or arguments relating to the provisional decision.
QIC has provided further submissions and evidence in response to the provisional decision. 
Following further investigations, it noted that after the make safe work in July 2022, a site 
visit was carried out and during this visit, potential asbestos-containing materials required 
testing. The testing was required in the upstairs of the property. QIC said that in order for the 
local building control to approve the planning application, they required access to review the 
roof space. It stated, It was clearly not safe for building control to attend before the testing 
and potential removal had been completed.
QIC explained the sequence of events and that the results of the asbestos testing were 
received in September 2022. It initially instructed a company to carry out the asbestos 
removal, but they couldnt complete the removal for some time due to the large-scale 
removal and also couldnt give a start date due to further make safe works in the upper 
floors. It then instructed another company in October 2022, and they completed the removal 
in November. It reiterated that the contractor approached the local building control 
department in December 2022, with an aim of getting it approved in January 2023, but 
following the initial contact there was some confusion caused by the local building control 
which added further delays.
Finally, having reviewed the provisional decision, QIC accepted that there had been 
occasions when avoidable delays had occurred. However, it considered that it had now 
explained why building control couldnt be approached sooner.
Ive carefully considered QICs further submissions. However, I dont consider that the 
submissions and evidence adequately explain why contact with the relevant local authority 
didnt progress between July and December 2022.
Its fully appreciated, as recorded in the provisional decision, that this was a complex project 
involving a number of agents and contractors. The testing for, and presence of, asbestos 
inevitably creates further unavoidable complexity and delay. However, one of the key issues 
here is whether more could have been done between July and December 2022 to ensure 
that, once asbestos removal had taken place, work then rapidly progressed to replace the 
roof to the property. I remain of the view that QIC hadnt fairly and reasonably progressed 
parallel discussions and preliminary work to submit the appropriate applications to the local 
authority during the relevant period. Its also not clear that building control required physical 
access to the property.
QIC accepted that the contractor was tasked with checking permission requirements for the 
roof in July 2022 and that reinstatement of the roof was critical to progressing full internal 
scoping of work. Ive seen no evidence to show that these checks and discussions occurred. 
Whilst the presence of asbestos explains certain complexities and delays, it doesnt explain the apparent lack of parallel contact with the local authority. Even if it hadnt been possible to 
submit an early desktop application, it seems that QIC hadnt made early enquiries, and 
seemed not to become aware of the need to make an application for planning permission 
until December 2022. I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for QIC to have 
established this point and to progress the application process much sooner than it did.
I therefore remain satisfied that there is no evidence to demonstrate efforts to contact and 
diligently progress an application to the local authority between July and January 2023. I 
consider six months was an unreasonable timescale for submitting such an application...I 
consider that an application to the local authority regarding the roof should have progressed 
in parallel with these other work items. I also remain of the view that this will have inevitably 
meant that it would take longer than necessary for Mr A to return to his home. I also remain 
of the view that this will have prolonged the distress, upset and worry over many more 
weeks than was necessary. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr As complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to 
pay Mr A £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman