DRN-2821304
The complaint
Mr C complains that Northern Bank Limited wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr C says he saw a piece about investing in cryptocurrency on a television programme and 
so decided to invest himself. He says he clicked on a link on a website and was then 
contacted by someone claiming to be a broker, but who we now know to be a scammer. 
Mr C was contacted by the scammer several times and ultimately agreed to send them 
money for an investment. He initially tried to send £20,000 but this payment was stopped 
and then returned by Northern Bank after it spoke to him over the phone. Mr C then 
successfully sent payments of £10,000, £10,000 and £5,500 over the next few days.
Mr C says he was told by the scammer that he was making a significant profit from his 
investments. But when Mr C asked to remove some of the money, he was told he couldnt 
and was then told all his money had been lost. Mr C then realised it was a scam and 
reported it to Northern Bank.
Northern Bank investigated but said it wouldnt refund the money Mr C had lost as he agreed 
to send the money despite warnings it gave him when it spoke to him over the phone. It also 
said it had tried to recover the money from the bank the money was sent to but hadnt been 
able to. Mr C wasnt happy with Northern Banks response, so referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They 
thought Mr C had agreed to the payments and would likely have still made them even if 
Northern Bank had carried out further checks. And they thought Northern Bank had done all 
it could to try to recover the money. So they didnt think Northern Bank should have to refund 
the money Mr C lost. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Northern Bank to refund the 
payments. Ill explain why below.
Its not in dispute that Mr C authorised each of the payments. He says the scammer asked 
him to install software on his computer which allowed them to remotely control it. And that it 
was the scammer who actually set up and completed the payments while they were remotely 
controlling his computer. But Mr C allowed the scammer to do this and was happy with the 
payments being made at the time. So while I recognise he didnt intend the money to go to 
the scammer, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that 
Mr C is liable for the payments and Northern Bank doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Northern Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Northern Bank did identify that Mr C was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of the first 
attempted payment of £20,000. And it stopped that payment until it could speak to him about 
it.
During that call, Mr C initially told Northern Bank the payment was going to a personal 
account in his name. After further questioning, he then said he was looking to invest in 
cryptocurrency and had been speaking to a broker about it. Northern Bank then warned 
Mr C that it had seen a lot of scams involving fake brokers and that the return his broker was 
offering was unlikely to be genuine. It strongly recommended that he researched who he 
was speaking to, spoke to a regulated broker or financial planner if he wanted to make 
investments and didnt send any money to someone he didnt know. And it explained that, 
once he sent any money, there was no guarantee hed ever see it again.
Despite these warnings, Mr C sent £10,000 to the scammer later that day and then further 
payments of £10,000 and £5,500 over the next few days.
It doesnt appear as though Northern Bank identified that Mr C was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of any of these later three payments of £10,000, £10,000 and £5,500, or that it 
carried out any additional checks before processing them. But, even if it had done, I dont 
think it would have made any difference to Mr C as I think he would have continued to make 
the payments anyway.
The warnings Northern Bank gave him during the call about the attempted £20,000 payment, 
about the types of scams it had seen and the risks of making payments to someone he didnt 
know, were clear and specific to what Mr C was thinking of doing. The warnings were in line 
with what wed expect a business to do if it identified that a customer was at risk of fraud. But 
Mr C didnt heed those warnings, take the action or carry out the research Northern Bank 
recommended. Instead he continued to make a payment to the scammer later that same 
day. So even if Northern Bank had spoken to him again before each of the later three 
payments, I think its likely Mr C wouldnt have heeded those warnings or done as Northern 
Bank recommended then either, and would have continued to make each of the payments.
Mr C has said that he wouldnt have made the payments if Northern Bank had made him 
come into branch to discuss them. But Northern Bank did suggest he take some of the 
information hed received from the scammer into branch to discuss it, but he didnt do this. 
And, as I said above, I think the warnings Northern Bank gave him were in line with what wed expect a business to do if it identified that a customer was at risk of fraud and I dont 
think it would be reasonable to say that Northern Bank should have done more than that.
As I think Mr C would likely have continued to make the payments even if it had given him 
further warnings, I dont think it would be fair to say anything further Northern Bank could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have prevented Mr C from losing the money. 
So I dont think it would be fair to require Northern Bank to refund the money Mr C lost.
Ive also considered whether Northern Bank couldve done more to try to recover the money 
Mr C lost, once it had been told about the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable 
steps to try to recover the money from the bank the money was sent to. But Northern Banks 
records show it contacted the receiving bank and was told there was no money left. And the 
receiving bank has told us the money was removed before Mr C realised it was a scam. So I 
dont think Northern Bank could have done anything further to recover the money.
I sympathise with the position Mr C has found himself in. He appears to have been the victim 
of a very sophisticated scam. But I cant hold Northern Bank responsible for the scam. I can 
only look at whether anything it could reasonably have done would have made a difference. 
And, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would have. So I dont think it would 
be fair to require Northern Bank to refund the money Mr C has lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman