DRN-4065127
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost as the result of an
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr W brought his complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer
solely to Mr W in this decision.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr W accepted an invitation to connect from an individual on a professional
networking platform. The contact introduced Mr W to a cryptocurrency investment
opportunity based overseas, sharing details of her trading profits and the platform she was
using. Mr W reviewed the platform and found it to be very professional  he says there was a
certificate showing the platform was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA);
testimonials from satisfied users; market predictions; a 7-day cooling off period; and a web
chat facility. There was also a Know Your Customer verification process. Mr W concluded
the opportunity was genuine, and after he passed the identification checks he opted into
direct messaging with a support agent.
By 13 September 2021 Mr W had decided which investment plan he wanted. He visited a
Lloyds branch to make an international money transfer. He sent £3,827.97 to invest and ten
days later a further £453.72 for the quarterly platform fee. He recalls on each visit the branch
instructed him to use the overseas desk and that the bank asked what the payments were
for, but not for any other detail. Due to the time that has passed the branch staff cannot
confirm what questions it asked of Mr W. After making the first payment Mr W could see
trades and that his investment was generating credible returns and so he did not doubt it.
Mr W then tested how easy it would be to withdraw money and this proceeded without issue,
crediting his bank account on 10 November 2022. It was only when he messaged the 
company about making more withdrawals and received no reply that he became concerned. 
In February 2022 he told Lloyds he was the victim of a scam. He argues Lloyds should have
intervened as the payments were out of character for his account.
Mr W wants both payments to be refunded, compensation and for Lloyds to cover any
related legal costs.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said the payments werent so unusual
they should have triggered further checks. And she was satisfied the bank had done all it
should to try to recover the money after Mr W reported the fraud.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the nature
of the payments should have triggered additional checks which would have prevented his
loss.
I reached the same conclusion as the investigator but made different findings in places so I 
issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked 
both parties to submit any comments or new evidence by 31 March 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
In this case I dont think Lloyds ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
Im not wholly persuaded that the transactions were not unusual based on what I have seen
of Mr Ws account activity. Based on the statements I have seen for his sole name account,
until 9 August 2021 he had made no international payments in the previous 12 months and
these transactions were to a new payee. However, I wont comment further on this as I dont
think more probing from Lloyds would have prevented the scam.
I say this as Lloyds submission shows that it had spoken to Mr W in August 2021 after
blocking an international payment he wanted to make using his debit card (the one
referenced above). This was to another overseas crypto platform  so the circumstances
were very similar. Its notes show that at that time it warned Mr W that such payments are
high risk, and said that it wanted to make sure he was not the victim of a scam. He was
adamant that he wanted to make the payment and it went ahead.
I think this is very relevant here. I can find have no evidence that had Lloyds intervened and
spoken to Mr W in more detail about these September payments that he would have
doubted this crypto investment either, and that the spell of the scam could have been
broken. Mr Ws testimony is clear that he was satisfied with the due diligence he had
completed and believed that the investment opportunity was genuine.
I have also considered if Lloyds did enough to try to recover Mr Ws money once he reported
the scam. This was months after the payments were made. It contacted the recipients bank
and was told no funds had been recovered, so was unsuccessful. I dont think it should have
done anything more in the circumstances.
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to refund any money to Mr W. This is a difficult decision
to make, Im sorry Mr W has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why
he would like to be compensated for his losses. I do accept he has fallen victim to a
sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in
the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out
above I do not find Lloyds can be held liable in the circumstances of this case.
Lloyds responded saying it had no further comments to make. Mr W did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, the regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice to prevent fraud at the 
time.
As neither party submitted any comments or new information, I have no reason to change 
the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows, for the reasons set out above, I dont find Lloyds can be held liable for the 
transactions and I am not instructing it to refund the money Mr W lost.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman