DRN-2963607
The complaint
Ms B and Mr C complain about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros
y Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to
Mapfre includes reference to its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Ms B and Mr C have an annual travel insurance policy with
Mapfre. Ms B became ill and had treatment whilst on a trip. When she returned home,
Ms B made a claim against the policy. Mapfre settled her claim in part. Ms B and Mr C 
didnt think that was fair.
My provisional decision 
On 5 July 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint except to the extent that if Mapfre hadnt paid the partial 
settlement its offered, it should do so, with interest. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably in paying only part of Ms Bs claim. Ill
explain why:
Ms Bs policy provides that private medical treatment isnt covered unless authorised
by Mapfres emergency assistance service. Ms B didnt ask Mapfre for authorisation
for treatment, so she remains responsible for the costs she incurred in having private
treatment.
I note what Ms B says about why she didnt seek authorisation from Mapfre, but it
was for Ms B, or Mr C on her behalf, to contact Mapfre in advance of any
treatment. It wasnt for the treating hospital to obtain authorisation from Mapfre. I
dont doubt that Ms B was unwell but the diagnoses she received dont suggest that
she couldnt have contacted Mapfre in advance of the treatment or instructed Mr C
to do so on her behalf.
Mapfre says that if Ms B had contacted it before treatment, as required by the policy,
she would have been referred to a hospital that would have treated her under the
European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) scheme. As Ms B didnt contact Mapfre in
advance of the treatment, it lost the opportunity to refer Ms B to a public hospital for
treatment.
Mapfre also says that if Ms B had contacted it after her initial treatment at the private
hospital, it would have provided cover for the initial consultation and advised Ms B to
go to the public hospital. Mapfres medical panel reviewed the hospital charges
arising from Ms Bs first visit to the private hospital. It offered to settle Ms Bs claim
based on the charges which it thought were medically necessary in the initial
consultation. I think thats a fair approach. It effectively puts Ms B in the position she
would have been in if she had sought authorisation after her initial treatment at the
private hospital.
Ive noted that the amount Mapfre has offered to pay is slightly more than the treating
hospital charged Ms B on the first day of treatment, less the excess due under the
policy. I think thats a fair approach.
Mapfre declined Ms Bs claim for subsequent treatment, on the basis that Ms B could
have contacted it before any further treatment took place. I think thats reasonable,
as if Ms B had contacted Mapfre, as shes required to do under the policy, it would
have referred her to a public hospital for any subsequent treatment.
Considering everything, I think that Mapfre treated Ms B fairly and reasonably in
offering to settle her claim in part. Ms B says that she hasnt received the settlement.
If the settlement hasnt been paid, Mapfre should make the payment and pay
interest, as Ms B has been kept out of the use of that money.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B and Mr C said they accepted my provisional decision and looked forward to the 
final settlement. Mapfre said that it paid the settlement on 10 March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms B and Mr C nor Mapfre have made any substantive comment on my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached. So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think that Mapfre treated Ms B and Mrs C fairly and reasonably in 
settling Ms Bs claim in part.
Mapfre has shown that it made the payment by BACs and says that it hasnt been returned. 
Ms B says that she closed her account before Mapfre made the payment. As Mapfre has 
shown that it has made the payment, Ms B should take this matter up with her previous 
account provider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms B and Mr Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman