DRN-2769192
The complaint
Mr H says XTB Limiteds trading platform had/has inherent faults that caused trades he 
neither opened nor closed to be opened and closed in his account and that caused his 
account balance to fluctuate despite having no open trades in the account.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly said:
Mr Hs complaint related experiences happened a number of times in late 2019. In its 
responses to his complaints about these experiences XTB maintained that it had 
looked into the issues he raised, that it had not operated his account, that it had 
checked its platform and that it had found nothing wrong with its platform. It also 
suggested that the cause of the issues he had presented was probably at his end 
and was probably his internet connection. Mr H disagreed with this suggestion and 
said he had 4G connectivity with a good network provider.
Mr H has only been able to refer to two trades that he considers to be suspicious  
one on 12 November and the other on 6 December. XTBs investigations confirmed 
that trades in his account were opened and closed through its Xstation mobile app. 
There is no evidence to show otherwise and no evidence to show that trades were 
not opened or closed by Mr H.
Mr H also has video recording evidence of his fluctuating account balance, in the 
absence of open trades. This was put to XTB to investigate further. It responded to 
say its IT and Trading teams looked into it but could not find a cause for it, that they 
could not explain it and that no other customer had experienced the same so they 
consider it an isolated problem faced only by Mr H. Whilst it admits that it is uncertain 
about the cause of this issue XTB also maintains that the cause could relate to       
Mr Hs internet connection or his mobile phone, given that he only appears to have 
experienced problems when he used the mobile app and not when he used the web-
based platform.
There is insufficient evidence to determine the cause of Mr Hs experiences and 
insufficient evidence to rule out the possibility that the cause was/is at his end, 
especially as there is no evidence of any other accountholder having the same 
experiences. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome; he said even though he cannot prove XTB was 
manipulating his account he has proved that there were problems; and he argued that more 
weight should be given to the undisputed video evidence he has submitted. He also 
considers that reference to his internet connection is irrelevant because he had no problems 
with his internet connection. The investigator confirmed that he was not disputing the issues 
Mr H faced but given the lack of evidence of its cause and the source of its cause the 
allegation that XTB is to blame cannot be upheld. The investigator also noted that even if 
there was such evidence, Mr Hs claim for compensation would fail because he does not 
appear to have suffered financial loss in the matter.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H appears to have initially sought from XTB compensation in the amount of £7,500, then 
in his referral of his complaint to this service he made a claim for £15,000. As the 
investigator noted, there appears to be no evidence of an actual financial loss in Mr Hs 
case. I note that he has argued a form of potential or hypothetical financial loss, but there is 
no evidence that an actual loss was incurred in his case. I am mindful that his claim also 
relates to compensation for what he considers to be a failed or flawed trading platform 
service. However, as I explain below, this is inherently dependent on establishing that XTB is 
to blame for the problems he has faced.
I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling in this matter. He is correct in saying that the video 
recording evidence should be given due weight in terms of proving the unprompted 
fluctuation in his account balance. This appears to have happened in January 2020 and I 
refer to it as unprompted because no open positions appear to have existed at the time, so 
there was no cause or reason for the account balance to fluctuate  and the video shows 
such fluctuation. I am satisfied that the investigator gave this video the weight it deserved. I 
have done the same, and I accept that it suggests a fault in Mr Hs platform account.
However, I am without evidence to explain the above balance fluctuation problem and 
without evidence to show that its cause (or source) was at XTBs end. Given that the 
platform is under XTBs control, not Mr Hs, it could arguably be assumed that responsibility 
for the issue rests with XTB. However, for the reasons given below I do not consider it safe 
to make that assumption. 
Mr H accepts that he experienced no problems when using the web-based platform and that 
he only experienced them when using the platform on his mobile phone. This suggests that 
the platform itself is unlikely to have been the source of the issue and that either the mobile 
app for the platform or something related to Mr Hs mobile phone could have been the 
source. 
Evidence from XTB is that no other accountholder experienced the same issue, so that 
further suggests that the mobile app for the platform appears unlikely to have been the 
source of the issue. I appreciate that Mr H could argue that XTBs claim in this respect has 
not been verified, but this services ability to determine his complaint relies on evidence 
made available to us. Based on available evidence, I have not seen reason to doubt XTBs 
submission on this issue and it is arguably unreasonable to ask XTB to prove a negative so, 
on balance, I consider its submission reliable. 
A similar analysis applies to Mr Hs complaints about the events in late 2019. In this respect, 
there is somewhat less weighty evidence, or at least evidence that does not appear to be 
comparable to video recordings  but I acknowledge that he has sent in screenshots. The 
problem for Mr Hs complaints about these phantom trading issues in late 2019 remains the 
same as addressed above for the fluctuating balance issue in January 2020  that is, the 
lack of evidence that they were caused by XTBs platform or that XTBs platform was the 
source of the suspicious trading activity he has referred to. The unavoidable conclusion in Mr Hs case, especially given the state of evidence in the 
case, is that whilst he appears to have experienced unexplained activities in his account, the 
cause of those activities  and therefore responsibility for them  is unclear. This means I do 
not have a credible basis to say, on balance, that XTB is to blame for the problems Mr H has 
complained about. It also means a service failure based claim for compensation is not 
supported by the balance of evidence  that is, it has not quite been established that XTB 
provided Mr H with a failed platform service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman