DRN-4181439
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Euroins AD didnt accept a claim he made under his travel insurance 
policy.
Euroins appointed another company, who Ill call R, to handle the claim on its behalf. Euroins 
accepts responsibility for R. Any references to Euroins below also relates to R.
What happened
Mr D purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering him for trips in Europe. 
The policy started on 30 March 2022 and ended on 29 March 2023. The policy provided 
cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr D went abroad in August 2022. When his flight landed at its destination Mr D went to 
collect his suitcase from baggage reclaim. But his suitcase never arrived. Mr D said he 
reported this to the airline and received a property irregularity report for the loss.
Mr D has explained he continued to contact the airline to retrieve his bag. But this was 
unsuccessful. So, he made a claim under his travel insurance policy for the loss.
After making the claim Mr D provided various pieces of documentation to Euroins, including 
a list of the items lost. On 21 September 2022 Euroins responded to Mr Ds claim, and said it 
wasnt able to provide a settlement for the claim at that time. 
Euroins said this was because Mr D first needed to make a claim for the lost baggage with 
the relevant airline, under their conditions of carriage, via the Montreal convention. Euroins 
said that if, after Mr D had done this, there was a shortfall between his claim and the amount 
the airline paid him, he could come back to Euroins, who could consider the balance of the 
claim.
Euroins did however tell Mr D that the policy didnt provide cover for mobile phones. And, it 
said it also excluded cover for valuables that were not carried within hand luggage when 
they were lost. Euroins said Mr Ds computer was checked in luggage when it was lost. So, it 
highlighted that any claim wouldnt provide settlement for the mobile phone or computer.
Mr D was unhappy with Euroins response. He explained hed been trying to get his luggage 
back from the airline and hadnt been successful. Mr D forwarded an email to Euroins, dated 
21 September 2022, from the airline, saying Mr D hadnt logged his claim within 24 hours, 
and so it wouldnt be doing anything more in relation to the bag.
In addition to this, Mr D was unhappy with the lack of cover for his mobile phone or computer 
item. As Mr D was unhappy, he raised a complaint about that matter.
Euroins responded to Mr Ds complaint and maintained its position on the matter. As Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. They said it was reasonable that in September 
2022 Euroins required Mr D to pursue the airline for costs first. And they also noted that 
Euroins had acted fairly in saying Mr Ds mobile phone and computer werent covered by the 
policy.
Our investigator did however think it was likely Mr D had requested call backs on multiple 
occasions and these werent answered. Our investigator considered that was frustrating for 
Mr D, and that £75 compensation should be paid to him for the impact this had.
Euroins didnt respond to our investigators outcome. Mr D disagreed. 
As the parties didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, and require Euroins to pay 
Mr D £75 compensation. I dont require it to do anything more than that, in relation to this 
complaint.
I appreciate Mr D is going to be disappointed with this. Its clear he feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all information provided to 
me when arriving at my decision. However, when explaining my decision, Ive only referred 
to information I consider necessary to explain my reasoning. That isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to the parties  but is instead a reflection of the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Euroins 
acted in line with these requirements, when it told Mr D that he would need to pursue the 
airline before it could accept any claim. And in Euroins telling Mr D his mobile phone and 
computer wouldnt be covered in this instance.
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds insurance policy, as these form the 
basis of the agreement between Euroins and Mr D. 
Mr Ds claim
Having considered the above, Im satisfied Euroins acted fairly in the decisions it made on 
Mr Ds claim.
Firstly, Euroins told Mr D, on 21 September 2022, that before it could provide any settlement 
for Mr Ds loss, he first needed to pursue a claim with the airline, under the conditions of 
carriage, via the Montreal convention.
Euroins wasnt telling Mr D it wouldnt accept any claim at this point  just that Mr D needed 
to complete the above first. It told Mr D that after doing this, if there was any shortfall 
between the airlines payment and his claim, he would be able to approach Euroins to 
consider the balance of his claim.
I consider this to be fair. Mr Ds policy explains, under the what is not covered part of the 
personal possessions and baggage section, that the policy doesnt provide cover for 
property more specifically insured or recoverable under any other source. This is usual in insurance policies of the nature, and means Mr D would need to pursue other avenues of 
compensation fully, before the insurance policy would step in. 
I do understand Mr D had attempted to gain his bag back through the airline and had been 
contacting it to resolve the issue. But Im aware that at the time Mr D made his claim he did 
have the right to compensation from the airline, via the Montreal Convention. So, whilst the 
situation may have been frustrating for Mr D, it was reasonable for Euroins to tell Mr D to 
pursue this avenue further first, and return to it, following that avenue being exhausted.
Its my understanding that the matter may have moved on now, with Mr D receiving some 
compensation from the airline. With that being the case, Mr D would now be able to return to 
Euroins, for it to consider the remainder of his loss. So, if Mr D wishes to pursue any 
outstanding balance, he should return to Euroins for it to consider the matter further.
Mr D is also concerned that Euroins said that when Mr D returned to it, it would not be able 
to provide a settlement for Mr Ds mobile phone or computer. Mr D said he didnt consider 
this to be fair  and said that his policy provided him with £250 cover for his computer. 
Ive therefore considered these concerns too. I agree Mr Ds policy does provide cover for 
valuables (of which a computer is one of these under the policy), up to the value of £250. But 
this is only where the terms and conditions of the policy are met.  Mr Ds policy is clear in 
explaining, under the personal possessions and baggage section of the policy, that the 
following isnt covered:
What you are NOT covered for 
()
6. Loss, destruction, damage or theft:
b) of valuables not carried in your hand luggage (i.e carried on or about your person) whilst 
in transit;
()
12. mobile phones or smart phones
Mr Ds computer was in his suitcase, which was handed to the airline and placed in the hold 
whilst the airplane was in transit  rather than carried in his hand luggage. And as this is 
something the policy specifically says it doesnt cover, I dont think Euroins acted unfairly in 
saying it wouldnt be able to provide settlement for Mr Ds computer. Euroins was acting in 
line with the policy terms.
Based on the above, the policy also makes it clear that mobile phones arent covered. So, I 
dont think Euroins did anything wrong in confirming it wouldnt be able to pay anything in 
relation to the phone either.
Customer service 
Mr D has raised concerns about the level of communication provided to him from Euroins. 
Mr D said he would receive generic email responses. And he said there were occasions 
when he had tried to speak to Euroins on the phone and had been unsuccessful. 
Mr D also said he had spoken to one representative from Euroins, who Ill call A, who had 
told him he could send emails to the general mailbox, with As name attached. This would 
mean Mr Ds emails would go to A to respond. Mr D said he took this action, but A didnt 
respond. And Mr D said he asked A to call him numerous times, but this didnt happen. Overall, Im satisfied Euroins responded to Mr Ds claim promptly. Mr D had a response to 
his claim inside a month of raising it with Euroins. I do however think that following 20 
September 2022 Mr D was led to understand that if he mentioned representative As name 
on an email, A would be provided with the email  with the inference being he would 
respond. But this doesnt seem to have happened as agreed.
I can see that Mr D emailed, mentioning A on 30 September 2022, and again on 3 October 
2022, and I cant see A responded to him in the agreed way. Im also aware Mr D said he 
has asked A to call him on a number of occasions, but this didnt happen either. For 
example, on Mr Ds email of 3 October 2022, he said hed asked A for a call five times and 
not had this response. 
I dont know for sure how many times Mr A asked for a call  Ive not seen all the evidence in 
relation to this. Or why A themselves didnt respond to Mr Ds emails on 30 September 2022 
and 3 October 2022. But, given the content of Mr As emails I think its likely he did try to 
speak to A and was successful. And its clear A didnt respond to Mr Ds emails. Given that 
this was what Mr D was led to believe would happen I can appreciate why that was 
frustrating for him.
With that in mind, I agree with our investigator that Euroins should provide Mr D with £75 
compensation. Its clear from Mr Ds email correspondence that he was frustrated and upset 
with A not responding to him  given what he was led to believe. And I think £75 fairly 
recognises the frustration that Mr D experienced.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Euroins AD to pay Mr D £75 
compensation. I dont require it to do anything more than that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman