DRN-4058705
The complaint
Mr M, through his representatives, complains that the advice given to him by Best Practice 
IFA Group Limited (Best Practice) to transfer his pre-existing defined contribution pensions 
to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) provided by Intelligent Money was unsuitable.
What happened
In August 2015 Mr M wrote to two of his pension providers stating that he was homeless, 
unemployed, and needed to access his pension monies. He gave his authority for these 
pension providers  Zurich and Standard Life - to send policy information to a financial 
adviser who was acting for Mr M at that time. 
In September 2015 Standard Life provided an update to that adviser confirming that there 
was no option to access any funds earlier than 55 years of age. 
Mr M was introduced to Best Practice in 2015 by the Citizens Advice Bureau. 
Best Practice requested policy information from both Standard Life and Zurich on 15 
February 2016 including what would be required for Mr M to access funds early due to ill 
health. 
Information provided by Zurich confirmed that they did not offer income drawdown as an 
option but that they would consider early access to the funds held with them prior to Mr M 
reaching age 55 upon completion of an Incapacity Medical Evidence form, which would also 
have required input from Mr Ms General Medical Practitioner. 
Also, in February 2016 Mr M provided Best Practice with a signed letter of authority stating 
that they could discuss his situation with this friend  Mrs B. This letter stated: 
Following our meeting today at the Citizens Advice Bureau in Crawley I give you full 
authority to discuss my situation and information with [Mrs B] of [address] who is like a sister 
to me. 
In April 2016 Best Practice completed the fact-finding process with Mr M. This documented 
his circumstances and objectives at that time and formed the basis of the advice given. This 
fact-find confirmed that Mr M was divorced, medically retired, was living in a hotel / hostel, 
had no savings or investments other than his pension monies and had no income other than 
£76 per week in non-means tested state benefits. 
Commentary within the fact-find also confirmed that Mr M had been referred to Best Practice 
by the Citizens Advice Bureau and that Mr M was in trouble due to ill health having suffered 
seven strokes in addition to other health issues. The notes confirmed that Mr Ms good 
friend was helping Mr M and that he has no quality of life at all and is surviving on £76 per 
week which is not means tested. He wants to take his tax-free cash and up to his annual 
allowance for income as feels he might not have long left, he wants to go on holiday to 
Thailand where he has friends along with treating some lifelong friends, he would rather 
have some money accessible so if he fancies a pint he can have one. 
Additionally, it was noted that Mr M was surviving currently and not living he is fully aware 
that his pensions have to last him however his health is terrible so needs money to give him 
a standard of living better than he has now whilst he is alive and can have a better life. 
The fact-find recorded that additional income of £500 per month was required in order to 
give Mr M an improved standard of living. This £6,000 per year need was then clarified with 
the document noting that income of £11,000 would be taken in the first year in order to allow 
Mr M to maximise his nil rate income tax allowance and allow some funds to build up as a 
float in his bank account. 
Finally, as well as reconfirming the above, the fact-find documented that the adviser had 
discussed the longevity of the funds stating, have discussed in depth with him that his 
pension money has to last which he is fully aware of but he came to me as had tried to get 
money directly but no existing providers allow fadd [flexi access drawdown]. 
Also in April 2016, Best Practice received information from Mr Ms doctors confirming that 
having assessed his medical records it was their opinion he was not fit to work. Additionally, 
his doctors confirmed Mr M health conditions and noted recent issues with Hypertension, 
type 2 diabetes, CVA (cardiovascular accident) and TIA (transient ischaemic attack) and 
documented the fourteen medications Mr M was currently taking. 
Following the provision of this information to Intelligent Money, they confirmed that they 
would be willing to allow Mr M to enter income drawdown early but would not allow him to 
take the whole plan out without a consultants report on Mr Ms health. 
Prior to specific advice being given, Mr M was provided with a Retirement Options Booklet. 
This was Best Practices guide to the various options open to people at retirement and 
included a section covering the below topics for a range of retirement options. 
 Overview.
 Tax-free cash implications.
 Income implications.
 Death benefit implications.
 Advantages.
 Disadvantages.
 Suitability.
The products covered in the above document included:
 Annuities.
 With profit annuity.
 Unit linked annuity.
 Enhanced or special situations annuity.
 Drawdown pension.Mr M singed this document on 4 July 2016 to confirm he had been fully made aware of the 
associated advantages and potential disadvantages of these products. 
The advice itself was documented in the suitability letter dated 11 July 2016. This 
reconfirmed Mr Ms circumstances and objectives as per the above. The advice given was to 
move four pensions. 
 Zurich FSAVC - £35,998.11
 Aegon Scottish Equitable, Personal Pension Plan - £8,322.18
 Standard Life, Group Pension Plan - £41,692.78
 Zurich, Personal Pension Plan - £59,407.91
The income to be taken was again confirmed to be £11,000 in the first year. 
Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) was documented as being medium-high and the recommended 
product was confirmed as an Intelligent Money SIPP with the funds to be invested into the 
Fusion 07 Index Portfolio in line with the ATR assessment. 
The charges associated with the new plan were confirmed and compared to the existing four 
schemes however retaining the existing schemes was discounted on the basis that they 
would not allow flexible drawdown which was required in order to allow Mr M to meet his 
objectives. Additionally, alternative pension products such as stakeholder pensions and 
personal pensions were discounted on the same basis. 
As per the fact find the suitability letter also discussed the longevity of the funds stating: 
When establishing your objectives, it was confirmed that your main priority was to improve 
your quality of life now that you are retired due to ill health. You want to take full advantage 
of the income tax allowance, currently £11,000 that you are entitled to per year so you have 
a float in the bank for your future and to enjoy now whilst you can. You also want to go on a 
trip of a lifetime abroad. My recommendation has taken account of these needs and we have 
discussed in depth that this pension money will need to last. You are fully aware of this but 
confirmed that you tried to get money directly from your existing providers, but none of your 
existing providers will not allow fadd [flexi access drawdown]. 
Mr M followed Best Practices advice. 
Mr Ms doctors reconfirmed their earlier medical information to Intelligent Money in July 2016 
and confirmed there had been no changes. 
In the months after the advice, there were numerous withdrawals made from the pension 
over and above those recommended in the suitability letter which ultimately led to the entire 
fund being exhausted by the end of 2018. 
On 27 October 2016 Mr M asked for £20,000 in order to purchase a property in India. Within 
the email Mr M noted Ive sorted the money out for my rent and hopefully this opposition 
has now come to an end, just to say thank you for your help in this matter. 
On 18 September 2017 Mr M emailed a request for a withdrawal of £20,000. Mr M confirmed 
he was aware of the tax position and that he was allowed £16,000 in his account and was 
aware there would be tax to pay on the £20,000 withdrawal which would ensure his stayed 
under this £16,000 limit. A further email was sent by Mr M later the same day confirming he had since spoken to his 
adviser at Best Practice with a smaller withdrawal of £3,000 now being requested. 
On 29 September 2017 Mr M emailed Best Practice regarding a £3,000 withdrawal 
confirming the funds were needed within days and that Mr M was willing to pay £30 to 
facilitate the transfer. The withdrawal history on the pension account shows this was in 
relation to the previous request where funds had not yet been received. 
On 11 June 2018 Mr M emailed Best Practice stating he had passed his driving test and was 
buying a business in Thailand. The email was sent to chase a previous question raised. 
On 22 June 2018 a further withdrawal was chased by Mr M with the email stating that Mr M 
was intending to move and noting that Mr M only had £30 in his account with his TV 
(television) having been cut off having not paid the bill. A further email was sent later the 
same day requesting an answer to the above. 
The relationship between Mr M and Best Practice was formally ended on 29 June 2018 with 
the termination letter confirming that the relationship had been terminated as Best Practice 
felt they were unable to advise you further as you are unwilling to take my advice which has 
come to a head with your proposed move to Thailand. 
In July 2018, following on from the termination of the relationship between Mr M and Best 
Practice there was further communication as Mr M was looking to make further withdrawals 
but was struggling to complete these as Intelligent Money would not action his request. 
Following the termination of the relationship between Mr M and Best Practice further 
withdrawals were made in July, August, and September 2018 totalling around £28,500. In 
November 2020, with the help of his representatives, Mr M complained to Best Practice 
stating that the advice he was given was unsuitable, did not consider his vulnerability and 
allowed him to withdraw the entirety of his pension fund. 
Best Practice responded to the complaint stating that they considered the advice appropriate 
and that whilst it was unfortunate that Mr M had withdrawn and spent his whole pension 
fund, this was not upon their advice and as such they were not responsible. 
The case was referred to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the advice given and concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. They stated that Best Practices advice was appropriate at that time and said that it 
was clear that Mr Ms circumstances at the time meant accessing pension funds was 
reasonable, that the product and fund recommended were appropriate and that the 
withdrawals which depleted the pension monies were not Best Practices responsibility. 
Mr M and his representatives did not agree, stating that it was clear Mr M was in ill health 
and vulnerable and as such Best Practice owed a duty of care to Mr M that it did not meet. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision stating:
The first issue I have considered is whether the advice given to Mr M to transfer his 
pensions was suitable. There are no recordings of what was actually said in meetings 
between Mr M and Best Practice and as such I have relied on the paperwork produced at 
the time. This is contemporaneous evidence which is unaffected by the passage of time or 
the benefit of hindsight. In 2009 the Financial Services Authority, the predecessor of todays Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), published a checklist for pension switching that is still relevant and useful 
when assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr M. 
It noted four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason? 
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early. 
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances? 
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
It is clear that Mr M had been trying for some time to access his pension monies and had 
engaged with other financial adviser firms and the Citizens Advice Bureau prior to Best 
Practice. It is also clear from the file that Mr M was in financial distress and not in good 
health. 
Best Practice did contact Mr Ms doctors and were provided with their opinion that Mr M was 
not fit to work and were also given a medical history including the numerous medications Mr 
M was taking at that time. 
Whilst this medical information did not go as far as providing an assessment of Mr Ms life 
expectancy it is clear that Best Practice did take steps to gather the appropriate medical 
information about Mr M before advice was given. 
I would note here that Best Practice are entitled to rely on the information given to them by 
Mr M and that none of the information provided by Mr M himself was contradicted by his 
doctors. 
In addition, in order for the pension provider  Intelligent Money  to allow access to pension 
funds prior to age 55 without incurring the associated penalties and tax charges, they must 
also have been confident the health issues documented were sufficient to merit such a step. 
The advice process itself was not a quick one. The file shows that Mr M and Best Practice 
had been introduced some months before either the fact find was completed in April 2016 or 
the advice was given in July 2016 and a such Mr M was given considerable time to assess 
the advice, his options and decide whether he wished to proceed with the transfer. 
Given Mr Ms health issues at the time, an extended advice process is not unreasonable to 
ensure he had adequate time to consider the advice prior to agreeing to it. 
I also note that the file documents Mr Ms friend was helping him around the time of advice. 
The complaint made notes that it is this friend who subsequently encouraged and 
manipulated Mr M into withdrawing and spending the entirety of his pension funds before 
the end of 2018. Where a consumer is potentially vulnerable it can often be the case that a 
friend or family member attends advice appointments to assist the consumer in making an 
informed decision. As such I do not see anything unusual in someone in Mr Ms circumstances being accompanied to his meetings with Best Practice. 
Whilst I would have expected Best Practice to act accordingly if there had been any signs of 
Mr M being coerced into accessing his pensions, I can see no evidence of this within the 
advice paperwork, with Mr Ms own individual circumstances supporting the advice given at 
that time. 
The advice process was an extended one taking several months. Information was sought 
from Mr Ms doctors and Mr M was also accompanied to the advice meeting by a friend. 
Whilst the file is clear that Mr M was not a well man, and was in financial difficulty, I can see 
no evidence on file that Mr M was not in a fit state of mind to make decisions about his 
pensions. Whilst subsequent actions have caused Mr M and his representatives to question 
the actions of Mr Ms friend, there is no evidence Best Practice should have been concerned 
at the time. As above, it is not uncommon for people to be accompanied to appointments 
and Mr M had signed a letter of authority allowing his circumstances to be discussed with the 
friend in question. 
The fact-find documented Mr Ms circumstances and his objectives with the ceding scheme 
information confirming that these objectives could not have been met within his existing 
pension schemes. 
I have considered that there is no information on file regarding the Aegon policy transferred 
at the time however this was a small part of the overall transfer with the policy itself being 
documented as a personal pension  a type of pension which would not normally allow 
flexible access. 
Whilst the Intelligent Money policy was more expensive than those it replaced, the existing 
polices could not meet Mr Ms main objective of accessing his tax-free cash and 
commencing income in the first year of £11,000, as such I agree with the investigators 
conclusion that the advice to transfer was appropriate. 
I would note here that there is limited information on file as to how the income need and 
initial withdrawal amounts were arrived at. The amounts appear to have been derived from 
conversations between Mr M and Best Practice with no real detail as to how these had been 
calculated nor what other options were available to Mr M. 
However, whilst the suitability letter itself does not detail the various options which were 
considered in order to meet Mr Ms objectives, the Retirement Options Booklet provided by 
Best Practice included information, advantages and disadvantages on the alternative options 
available to Mr M. These included both annuities in general and more specifically enhanced 
(or special situations) annuities. This document was signed by Mr M to confirm these options 
had been discussed and explained and as such I consider it reasonable to conclude that the 
various ways in which funds could be accessed were fully considered prior to specific advice 
regarding income drawdown being given. 
I have gone on to consider the suitability of the underlying investments recommended. Mr M 
was assessed as medium / high risk with the underlying Fusion 07 Index Portfolio being 
chosen to match this. I do not consider this level of risk or the underlying fund to be 
inappropriate with the pre-existing pensions also exposing Mr M to similar levels of risk. 
Whilst Mr Ms pension fund now has a zero value this is not as a result of any losses made 
by the underlying investments, rather the high level of withdrawals made by Mr M. Had the 
funds remained invested in line with the assessed ATR, with withdrawals limited to the 
£6,000 per year noted in the fact find, I see no reason (in normal investment market 
conditions) why the transferred funds could not have lasted for many years. Overall, Mr Ms existing pensions would not have been able to meet his objectives at the 
time of advice. Given Mr Ms financial situation and poor health at the time, a 
recommendation to transfer in order to access cash at the time is not considered 
inappropriate. The advice process itself took place over a number of months and allowed Mr 
M time to consider his options before deciding to accept the advice given. The product 
recommended is considered suitable in that it allowed Mr M to access his tax-free cash lump 
sum and select an ongoing level of income to meet his expenditure requirements. 
Having established the advice itself was suitable I have also considered whether following 
advice and the completion of the transfer Best Practice should then have limited Mr Ms 
access to his pension and prevented the high level of withdrawals made by Mr M which led 
to the fund being exhausted by the end of 2018. 
The advice given by Best Practice involved accessing tax free cash and taking income of 
£11,000 in the first year, with this income level to be reviewed annually. Had this advice 
been followed, with income in subsequent years being linked to the £500pm income need 
identified in the fact find, it is likely that Mr M would still have pension funds available. It is 
not unreasonable to conclude that this course of action would have been in Mr Ms best 
interests long term. 
However, the funds in question were Mr Ms and he had the legal right to access them 
however he saw fit. Whilst Best Practice could advise Mr M to limit spending in order to 
preserve the funds for the long term, they had no standing to actually prevent him accessing 
the funds. 
It is clear from the chain of events above that a number of requests for withdrawals were 
made through Best Practice and I have considered carefully what actions they took in order 
to protect Mr M and ensure they met their duty of care to him. I note that the original 
suitability letter did contain confirmation that Mr M had been made aware that the funds 
needed to last and accept that these subsequent withdrawals were not part of the original 
advice. When dealing with the subsequent withdrawal requests made by Mr M, the 
documentation on file does support the idea that Best Practice did seek to question Mr M 
about the withdrawals and his reasons for them. As early as 2016 Mr Ms email to Best 
Practice notes he hopes opposition to his plans is now at an end, clearly suggesting that 
Best Practice had not simply actioned the request with no further consideration. 
Whilst it would not have been unreasonable for Best Practice to provide further additional 
warnings to Mr M as he withdrew his funds, I also have to consider whether there is any 
evidence to support the idea that Mr M would have listened to and heeded any such warning 
had it been given by Best Practice. 
I have listened to the recorded calls supplied by Best Practice of Mr M chasing a withdrawal 
he had requested in 2018, during the calls Mr M is very clear that he requires the money 
requested and the delays to this being provided are unacceptable to him. Whilst I appreciate 
that these calls refer to just one of the withdrawals made, they do indicate Mr Ms insistence 
regarding the withdrawal and in turn do not support the idea that Mr M would have been 
willing to follow any advice given to him to cease or reduce his spending. 
This assertion is additionally supported by the fact that even after Best Practice terminated 
their relationship with Mr M, and stopped all servicing of his pension in June 2018, Mr M still 
continued with his withdrawals until all funds were exhausted. 
Whilst I can sympathise with Mr Ms current circumstances, in that he now regrets the 
withdrawals he made and finds himself without any pension provision, I do not consider it 
reasonable to hold Best Practice responsible for Mr Ms actions or losses. As such I am not proposing to uphold this complaint.
The provisional decision I previously issued asked both parties to provide any additional 
evidence or commentary they wished to be considered by 30 March 2023.
Neither party has provided any additional information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, following the issuance of my provisional decision neither party have provided any 
additional commentary or evidence relating to this complaint and as such I have concluded 
the provisional decision issued provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the issues at 
hand, therefore I am not making any changes to it.
For the reasons documented above I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman