DRN-3178395
The complaint
The complaint is about a mortgage Mr A holds with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Hes unhappy with how his account has been handled during a period of financial hardship 
and arrears. Mr A is represented in the complaint by Mr M.
What happened
Kensington dealt with the complaint in a final response issued in December 2019. When the 
case was referred to us, in July 2020, Kensington objected to us considering the complaint 
on the grounds it was time-barred. Our investigator agreed, so Mr M, on Mr As behalf, 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
By way of a provisional decision in July 2021, I concluded that exceptional circumstances 
had prevented Mr A from referring his complaint to us in time. That allowed me to set aside 
the time limit, thus paving the way for us to consider the issues addressed in the 
December 2019 final response. Both parties accepted my provisional decision; meanwhile, 
Mr A had raised a new complaint in January 2021 about Kensingtons dealings with Mr M 
about contact with Mr As estate agent. Both parties agreed that we should deal with the new 
issue alongside the December 2019 complaint.
There was another complaint, that Kensington refused to remove Mr As former partner from 
the mortgage. However, that complaint is time-barred, because Kensington issued a final 
response on it in May 2018, it wasnt referred to us within six months and there were no 
exceptional circumstances that prevented the referral being made in time.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr A, Mr M, and Kensington. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which 
has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions 
are published, the circumstances of this dispute are a little unusual, and its important that I 
dont include any information that might result in Mr A being identified. Instead Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to recordings of phone calls between Mr M (on Mr As behalf) and 
Kensington. Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
The 2019 complaint
This is about Mr As attempt to apply for a Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI) loan from the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). It was rejected because Mr As former partner is 
still a joint borrower on the mortgage with Kensington. Mr M, on Mr As behalf, argues that 
Kensington should have made it clear at the outset that SMI loan wouldnt be granted unless 
Mr As former partner consented to and joined in the application. Better yet, he says 
Kensington should have agreed to remove her from the mortgage.
For reasons I referred to earlier, whether or not Kensington should have removed Mr As 
former partner from the mortgage isnt in my remit. The point is that she remained a joint 
borrower at the time of Mr As application for an SMI loan (and does so to this day) and 
therefore the DWP would expect her to be part of the application. 
The rules governing SMI loans arent a matter for Kensington; theyre a matter for the DWP. 
I wouldnt expect Kensington to volunteer unsolicited information about the DWPs rules and 
requirements; if it were asked a question directly, Id expect it to refer the questioner to the 
DWP rather than attempt to provide answers itself. Thats what Kensington did throughout 
the year-long period that Mr M was in phone dialogue with it about Mr As application.
As far as the arrears generally are concerned, Mr A (with Mr Ms help) has done all that 
could reasonably be expected of him, by keeping Kensington full apprised of his 
circumstances, the reasons behind the arrears, and his plans for addressing them. 
Kensington, in turn, as done what Id expect it to do, in that it has showed patience and 
forbearance towards someone whose financial difficulties are clearly long-term. But it isnt 
required to do so indefinitely. 
Ultimately, Kensington is owed the money outstanding on the mortgage, and the contract 
allows it the right of recovery through its security. Thus far, Kensington has held off seeking 
to enforce its security but instead allowed Mr A to try and sell his home. That brings me to 
the second part of the complaint.
The 2021 complaint
This is about contact between Kensington and Mr M regarding Mr As estate agent. This isnt 
something on which I have to find fault. Kensington has accepted the contact was 
inappropriate, and that it should have spoken to the agent directly. Its also offered 
Mr A £100 compensation for this; in all the circumstances, I think thats fair, and I wont be 
awarding more.
Ongoing matters
As I understand it, Mr A is continuing to try and sell his property, and for the moment at least, 
Kensington is continuing to allow him to do so. Im not going to direct either party on what 
they should do next, other than remind Kensington of its duty to treat a borrower in financial 
difficulties fairly. If Mr A thought that wasnt happening, he could start a new complaint about 
more recent events or actions on Kensingtons behalf.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman