DRN-3665023
The complaint
C is unhappy Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc declined its claim for storm damage made
under its buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2021, C reported a claim for storm damage to the hall roof.
Ecclesiastical declined the claim, it said the hall roof is believed to be the original 
dating from around 1876, and it believes the damage to the roof most likely occurred 
as a result of its age and natural deterioration over the last 145 years. It doesnt think 
the weather conditions around the date of damage were the dominant cause of the 
damage.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She was persuaded there was a storm, 
and that the damage was consistent with a storm. But she didnt think the storm was 
the main cause of damage.
C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 10 August 2022. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained when we consider storm damage complaints, we ask three
questions:
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all the above questions is yes the claim would be covered under the storm 
peril. But if the answer to any of the above questions is no the claim wouldnt be successful. 
So, Ive thought about these questions when coming to my decision.
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
The policy document doesnt define what it means by the word storm. So, Ive thought 
about what this service would consider as a storm. This service thinks a storm is normally a 
period of bad weather with very high winds, and generally some accompanying rain or snow.
Ive looked at the independent weather records from around the time C discovered the 
damage. Taking into account the weather records at the time Im aware there were some 
strong gales that peaked at 49mph that could be severe enough to be considered storm 
conditions. So, Im satisfied the answer to this question is yes.
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Our investigator noted the nature of the damage in this case was consistent with what they 
would expect to see from storm damage. However, I disagree, although I agree that there 
mayve been some strong gales these are recorded at speeds that could cause slight 
structural damage. Having looked at the photos and considering the loss adjuster (LA) report 
as well as the opinion of the contractor that was asked by C to do the temporary repair. Im 
not persuaded that the wind speeds recorded wouldve caused the extent of damage noted 
to the hall roof.
Both the LA and contractor thought the laths that supported the tiles had failed due to age 
and wear and tear. The LA went on to explain that the iron nails, used to hold the lathes in 
place, have probably rusted due to age (approximately 145-year-old roof) and this failure 
caused the roof covering to slide down the rafters. The type of damage typical of a storm 
varies with windspeed. Whilst a roof collapsing might be typical at very high speeds, in our 
experience its very unlikely at lower speeds. Around 49mph damage is usually minor. i.e. 
lifted tiles, toppled chimney pots etc. So, Im persuaded the damage in this case is not 
commensurate with the windspeed involved.
I also note in a report dated 2019 where the whole building was inspected, under general 
observations it said the plain tile roofs, whilst generally still performing in a satisfactory 
manner are noted has having many cracked or slipped tiles and it is considered that the tiling 
and its fixings are coming to the end of their service life. Im persuaded from what Ive seen 
that this appears to be what has happened to this north section of the roof. I also note in one 
of the tender reports that it mentions the remaining roof shows some signs of slippage. So, 
this in my opinion would also indicate that the roof as a whole is coming to the end of its life.
Im therefore satisfied the answer to the second of the questions listed above is no. And 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly in saying the claim wasnt covered by the storm peril contained 
in the policy.
It hasnt been shown that the damage to the hall roof has been caused by any other peril 
listed within this policy. C does have accidental damage cover, but damage caused by wear 
and tear and gradually operating causes are excluded from cover. So, Im satisfied 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly in saying Cs loss isnt something thats covered. Given, this 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
C have also used the services of a Chartered Insurer Ill refer to as Mr P to challenge 
Ecclesiastical declination of the claim. Mr P also responded on behalf of C to the views 
issued by our investigator. Ive taken his comments on board whilst making this decision.
Mr P has raised the insurance principle of Proximate cause  and referred to a supreme 
court judgement. He has said in the well-established principle of English Law that where 
there are concurrent proximate causes, if one cause is an insured peril and the other is not 
insured then the policy should respond in full. So, in this instance he thinks even if wear and 
tear is the main cause of loss the proximate cause is storm and without an exclusion of wear 
and tear the claim should be met in full.
Ive considered this but it first has to be shown the claim falls under one of the insured perils 
the policy covers. So, in this case we have storm force winds, but not damage caused by storm. We only have damage caused by wear and tear. So, there arent concurrent causes 
here. And that means the principle set out in the law isnt relevant in this case. 
I appreciate Mr P says the damage happened around the time of the storm and that means 
the storm must have been the cause of the damage. But, at this service were interested in 
the underlying cause of the damage. And for the reasons given above by the experts, thats 
long-term age-related wear and tear and general degradation. The storm didnt cause any of 
that, it just highlighted it. Put another way, if the wear and tear wasnt present do I think the 
storm of the magnitude recorded wouldve caused the type of damage? My answer based on 
the information Ive seen would be no. As it hasnt been shown that the claim falls under one 
of the insured perils the policy covers, I think its fair for Ecclesiastical to decline the claim. 
Responses to provisional decision.
Ecclesiastical havent responded to the decision.
C in summary have said:
They feel their insurer has looked at the claim from a point of view of limiting their 
liability by actively seeking reasons not to cover the damage.
They feel Ecclesiastical has relied heavily on a comment made by the contractor C 
used. C question the competence of the foreman to offer this as a professional 
considered opinion.
The fact there was a storm, C feel that shouldve been reason to accept the claim 
they disagree with my decision that this wasnt the primary cause as since February 
2021 there have been other storms and this hasnt resulted in further slippage. 
There is no exclusion for wear and tear from the storm peril so question why it has 
been such a major feature in the investigation.
Mr P on behalf of C also said in summary:
Wear and tear is a gradually operating cause and as such it would usually manifest 
by individual tiles slipping. Eventually it becomes difficult and uneconomic to 
continually have to replace the tiles and the roof reaches the end of its economic life. 
It is unlikely to result in a sudden and catastrophic collapse of a roof as in this case. 
The damage does not appear in Mr Ps opinion to be consistent with gradually 
operating wear and tear.
As I have accepted that the wind speeds would be sufficient to cause minor damage. 
Mr P feels the Supreme court decision that he cited in earlier correspondence means 
that minor damage is in itself sufficient to be the proximate cause even if greater 
damage is caused by other uninsured perils. He therefore cannot see how I can be 
so sure that no damage was due to the high winds. He feels C has demonstrated that 
on the balance of probabilities the winds were sufficient to lift one or more tiles which 
then caused a chain reaction with the laths on the section of the roof collapsing under 
the increased weight of the tiles slipping from above. As the architect pointed out for 
the roof to collapse, even in its weakened state there had to be an outside force 
acting on it. The only outside force at the time was the high winds. On the civil law 
test of causation, the balance of probabilities is that the insured cause of damage has 
to be the storm peril.
C accepts that wear and tear increased the extent of damage, but the insurer has 
chosen not to exclude wear and tear from the storm peril. But it chose to include a 
wear and tear exclusion from the All Risks peril. When an insurer includes and 
exclusion under one peril but not another this is taken as evidence that the approach 
to each peril is intended to be different. So, Mr P feels to reject the storm claim on the 
basis of wear and tear where there is no exclusion appears unfair.
Mr P feels that the ABI guidelines on storm and our approach to storm damage complaints result in a definition of what constitutes storm damage that is at variance 
with the current law on causation, especially where there is no exclusion of wear and 
tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The responses above are broadly similar to what I already considered in the provisional 
decision, so I wont go into detail again. 
The onus is upon the policyholder to prove an insured event has caused the damage 
claimed for. Storm conditions alone are not enough to do this. The policyholder also needs 
to show the damage is consistent with a storm and the storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage. This has been our long and established approach to storm cases.
I appreciate C feel that Ecclesiastical have relied on the comments of the contractor they 
used to do the temporary repair to reject the claim and question the competence of the 
contractor to offer a professional opinion. It isnt unusual for builders/contractors to offer an 
opinion based on the nature of the work they see and experience. But I can see when Mr P 
raised this with Ecclesiastical it also arranged for a LA to review the damage. And the LA 
also came to the same conclusions. So, I think it was fair for Ecclesiastical to rely on the 
expert/professional opinions.
Mr P has said how can I be sure no damage was caused by the storm as he believes on 
grounds of probability C has demonstrated the winds were sufficient to lift one or more tiles 
which then caused a chain reaction with the laths on the section of the roof collapsing under 
the increased weight of the tiles slipping from above. As the architect pointed out for the roof 
to collapse, even in its weakened state there had to be an outside force acting on it. The only 
outside force at the time was the high winds. On the civil law test of causation, the balance 
of probabilities is that the insured cause of damage has to be the storm peril. 
In general, the wind speeds identified can cause minor damage. But just because they can 
doesnt necessarily mean they did here. And even if one or two tiles came off, we need to 
consider what caused that  was the roof in otherwise sound condition but for the impact of 
strong winds? Or was it suffering from a degree of degradation or poor condition prior to the 
storm?
Its accepted the roof was in a weakened state prior to the storm. And after winds that would 
usually cause minor damage at most, the roof has collapsed. That damage simply isnt 
consistent with the storm conditions  and the existing condition of the roof means the storm 
wasnt the cause of the problems. So, it hasnt been shown the storm conditions caused the 
damage claimed for. And this doesnt rely on a wear and tear exclusion. Im not persuaded 
an insured event happened, so the insurer doesnt need to turn to any exclusions.
Having considered all the points raised by C and Mr P these havent changed my decision to 
not uphold this complaint. I therefore wont be asking Ecclesiastical to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman