DRN-2304486
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice he got from Santander UK Plc when he asked about a new 
mortgage product. Mr G would like to be put back in the position he would have been in with 
his existing product. 
What happened
Mr G has a mortgage with Santander. In August 2019, Mr G had a balance of £88,160 on his 
account and the account was on a lifetime tracker at 1.99% above Base Rate giving a rate of 
2.74%. Mr G intended paying £60,000 off his account and to pay off the rest of the balance 
within the next two years. So, he wanted a product from Santander that would allow him to 
do that and the adviser recommended a product with a rate at 0.69 % above Base Rate - 
1.44%. The new product had a fee of £999. 
Mr G accepted the recommendation but on reflection realised that, with the product fee, he 
would be paying more with the new product than he would with his existing product. Mr G 
asked that to return to the old product which he felt was more suitable for him.  Santander 
refused to allow him to do so. Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be 
upheld as he would have expected the adviser to check whether it would have been more 
cost effective for Mr G to stay on the old rate or move but didnt do so. Santander disagreed 
saying in summary that when Mr G made the £60,000 overpayment that this distorted the 
picture and that there were potential savings before this was done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G worked out that on the new rate recommended to him by Santander for the two-year 
period, he would save £228 on the monthly repayments but, because of the product fee, he 
would be out of pocket by £773. Thats why he made his complaint to Santander and his 
complaint is understandable. In essence hes saying that Santander should not have 
recommended a product to him that was likely to leave him financially worse off. As I 
understand it, Santander may have been working off the higher figures before Mr G made 
his overpayment of £60,000, but part of this deal was that he would make this substantial 
overpayment bringing his account below £30,000. Its also the case that the Santander 
adviser cant anticipate the future and what would happen if the base rate increased. 
But on the information available to the Santander adviser when giving the advice it was likely 
that if Mr G followed the advice that he would be worse off. That should have caused the 
adviser at least to raise this as a warning signal to Mr G so that he could reconsider the 
matter in the light of that warning. I dont believe that to do so would be putting too high a 
burden on the adviser. After all, the mortgage was less than £30,000 and there would have 
to be a very high interest rate advantage over two years to make up for the product fee of 
£999. So, I believe that the adviser should have weighed the product fee against the interest 
rate advantage and discussed the implications of this with Mr G in order to properly advise 
him. I believe that if properly advised Mr G wouldnt have proceeded with the product as 
evidenced by the fact that having weighed up the matter, he asked Santander to transfer him 
back to his original product. So, on that basis, I uphold this complaint and require Santander 
to put Mr G in the position he would have been in had he continued with his existing product 
together with compensation of £150 for his upset. 
Putting things right
Santander UK PLC should calculate the difference Mr G will pay over the two years from 
August 2019 had Mr G stayed on the existing rate against the rate he was recommended 
and refund the difference taking the product fee into account. It should also pay Mr G £150 
compensation for his upset.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman