DRN-2807569
The complaint 
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc is chasing him for debts which he 
believes are unenforceable or statute barred. He wants collection activity to be stopped.
What happened
Mr B complains that NatWest has been chasing him for some historic debts. He says that it 
hadnt provided him with copies of the agreements or other information hed sought. And had 
continued to chase him for the debts even though hed made it clear he thought they were 
unenforceable and / or statute barred. And after hed indicated that he wouldnt be paying. 
He also complained that hed not received much of the correspondence which NatWest 
claimed to have posted.
NatWest told us that the debt had been in recoveries for several years. It stated that the 
account remained open but was non-operational. Meaning that it was open only for 
payments to be received. It stated that correspondence had been sent to the address it had 
on record. It didnt accept that it had acted incorrectly in the way it handled the debt.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that NatWest 
had reasonable grounds for believing the debt to be Mr Bs. Given that hed previously 
appointed an agency and made payments towards the debts. He went on to say that overall, 
he thought NatWest had treated Mr B fairly.
As Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr B has faced financial difficulties over a number of years. And I can 
understand that being chased for debt can be a stressful experience. 
Mr B has provided a detailed history of the background to the complaint. And whilst Im 
limited into the aspects that I can look at due to time limits, its been helpful in providing a 
wider context.
I understand that in 2018, Mr B made a complaint to NatWest which led to the defaults 
recorded on the accounts to which this complaint relates being re-dated to 2012. The effect 
of which was that NatWest ceased to report the accounts to credit reference agencies after 
March 2018. A final response letter (FRL) was issued in July 2018 which Mr B states that he 
didnt receive. But Ive seen a copy of the letter and Im satisfied it was sent to the address 
held by NatWest. I cant hold NatWest responsible for the non-delivery by a third party 
mailing service. And as our investigator has explained, we cant look again at the issues 
dealt with in that complaint.
In August 2020, Mr B complained to NatWest after hed received a letter from a collection 
agent seeking repayment of the sums allegedly due on these accounts.
Mr Bs complaint comprises a number of elements. These relate to whether the sums being 
sought are accurate; if the debts are unenforceable or statute barred; if NatWest has been 
fair in the manner it has pursued the debts.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Let me say at the outset that Im not able to make legal rulings on whether the debts are Mr 
Bs. And whether they are unenforceable or statute barred. Nor can I say that he has to 
repay them. Those would potentially be matters for a court to determine. I gather from his 
latest reply to our investigators view that Mr B understands this.
In short, what I have to decide is if NatWest has reasonable grounds to believe that Mr B is 
the debtor. And if so, has the manner in which it has sought to collect the debts been fair.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B isnt disputing the debts are his. But as part of my enquiries and for completeness, I 
viewed all the account history notes supplied by NatWest. These show the accounts went to 
recoveries in 2013. And Mr B had previously appointed a debt manager, a business Ill call 
M, through which he made a payment arrangement with NatWest. 
I find, based on the above, that NatWest reasonably believes the debts are those of Mr B.
Turning now to the issue of its fair for NatWest to chase these debts if they are  as Mr B 
alleges - statute barred or unenforceable. Put briefly, a statute barred debt is one where the 
limitation period for issuing a court claim has expired. An unenforceable debt is one that is 
not necessarily statute barred. But where the creditor cannot, for other reasons, enforce the 
debt through the courts.
The debts here relate to a current account and personal loan. The limitation period (within 
which a creditor is required to issue a court claim) is six years from the time the cause of 
action arose. But the limitation period may in effect be restarted if payments are made by or 
on behalf of the debtor.
The notes Ive seen show that payments were made by Mr B, through M, until July 2015. Mr 
B has advised that he terminated his contract with M in 2015. So it would be consistent if the 
last payments made through M were at that time.
The only other payment I saw was a credit recorded in 2018 which was described as 
redress. Given the evidence of payments being made by Mr B or on his behalf, until July 2015, it 
seems more probable than not that the debts wont become statute barred until July 2021 at 
the earliest.
Debts may also be become unenforceable if the creditor is unable to supply the debtor with 
certain information about an alleged debt.
I understand that NatWest hasnt been able to provide Mr B with copies of the relevant 
agreements. Although its supplied some statements of the sums allegedly due. This may 
make these debts unenforceable. But even where a debt may be unenforceable, doesnt 
mean a business cant seek to collect it. Our investigator explained in detail that its 
acceptable for a business to pursue unenforceable debts. I concur with this view.
Mr B has suggested that NatWest has broken FCA rules by continuing to seek to collect the 
debt. Hes referred to some specific rules. 
CONC 7.14.1 R 01/04/2014
(1) A firm must suspend any steps it takes or its agent takes in the recovery of a debt 
from a customer where the customer disputes the debt on valid grounds or what may 
be valid grounds.
CONC 7.14.2 G 01/04/2014
 Valid grounds for disputing a debt include that:
(1) the individual being pursued for the debt is not the true borrower or hirer under the 
agreement in question; or
(2) the debt does not exist; or
       (3) the amount of the debt being pursued is incorrect.
Mr B suggests that the sums hes alleged to owe might not be accurate. And that hes only 
been provided with statements from 2014  not the sums due at the start of the agreements. 
Hes referred to other issues including NatWest having a major IT failure in 2012. And an 
error in identifying the business which was managing the debt on his behalf.
Theres no objective information to show that these issues were likely to have affected Mr 
Bs accounts. And in the absence of some specific evidence, I agree with our investigator. I 
dont think they provide valid grounds for suggesting the account balance is inaccurate.
As I dont find there are any objectively valid grounds for disputing the debts, I see no reason 
why NatWest was required to suspend its collection activity.  And I dont think the 
appointment of an alternative collection agent when the complaint was referred to this 
service was unfair. Ive seen nothing that leads me to believe that the manner in which 
NatWest has sought to collect the debt is unfair.
Whilst Im not upholding this complaint, I recognise that the situation is fluid. Im sure that Mr 
B will be anxious to know what collection activity NatWest might seek to pursue in future. 
And its fair to say that a business needs to ensure that collection activity remains fair.Going forward, Id expect NatWest to be aware of Mr Bs stance on the issue of the debt and 
its enforceability. Also the potential effect on its collection activity if the debt becomes statue 
barred.
CONC 7.15.8 R states:  
A firm must not continue to demand payment from a customer after the customer has stated 
that he will not be paying the debt because it is statute barred.
In summary, I find that NatWest has reasonable grounds to believe Mr B owes the debts it 
was seeking to collect from him. And that it hasnt misled him or otherwise acted unfairly in 
trying to collect them. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman