DRN-2021866
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs N say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr T and Mrs N arranged a mortgage with YBS in 1998. At the same time a PPI policy was 
set up that protected their monthly repayments if either of them couldnt work because of 
disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr T and Mrs N disagreed with 
the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Mrs Ns case. 
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
YBS had to ensure it was made clear to Mr T and Mrs N that the PPI was optional and that it 
got their agreement before adding the policy. Understandably after all this time, there are 
gaps in the information thats still available from the sale. For example, theres no PPI 
application form. So, I cant say with any certainty whats likely to have happened. That said, 
theres nothing to suggest YBS didnt do these things or to show Mr T and Mrs N didnt want 
the PPI.
 
Overall, there isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint on these grounds.
 
If YBS recommended the PPI to Mr T and Mrs N it would have had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, they were eligible for the cover  despite Mrs Ns subsequent pregnancy 
 and werent significantly affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover. 
Mr T and Mrs N say they were entitled to employer benefits if they couldnt work and had 
access to other means to the extent that they didnt need PPI. But the PPI benefits were 
considerable in that I gather they paid out for up to 12 months per unemployment claim and 
for up to 24 months per disability claim. Given the PPI protected long-term and significant 
borrowing secured on their home, I think theyd have found the extra protection it provided 
useful. 
Its possible some of the information YBS gave Mr T and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But, as I say, it seems the PPI would have provided useful 
cover for them if something went wrong  and at an affordable cost. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr T and Mrs N. But 
YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T and Mrs N because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr T and Mrs N about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr T and Mrs N, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in this 
case.
   
What the business needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr T and Mrs N any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so. YBS should also pay back to 
Mr T and Mrs N any extra interest they paid because of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr T and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also 
pay Mr T and Mrs N 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T and Mrs N can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T and Mrs N.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr T and Mrs N any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman