DRN-1783251
The complaint
 Mr A complains that New Day Limited trading as Aqua provided credit to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with Aqua in Sept 2017 with a credit limit of £600. His 
credit limit was increased to £1,150 in April 2018 and then increased again to £3,150 in 
2019.
In summary, Mr A has complained that he should never have been provided with the credit 
card and that Aqua increased his credit limit irresponsibly. He says he was unemployed 
when he applied for his Aqua card and his financial position was poor. He doesnt think Aqua 
carried out sufficient credit checks either when he opened his account or subsequently when 
his credit limit was twice increased. Mr A thinks that if Aqua had carried out better checks it 
wouldnt have given him the card and it wouldnt have increased his credit limit. He says that 
as a result of being given credit by Aqua he is now in debt and has suffered poor mental 
health.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As complaint. She thought that it was fair and 
reasonable for Aqua to have provided Mr A with the card and an initial credit limit of £600. 
But she thought Aqua shouldnt have increased Mr As credit limit in April 2018 and that his 
account should have been frozen from August 2019. 
Aqua has agreed with the adjudicators recommendation and says it has refunded all interest 
and charges added to Mr As account since April 2018, plus 8% simple interest leaving an 
outstanding balance at the time of just over £2,445.
Mr A says he accepts he was responsible for making some payments, but he thinks the 
outstanding balance he is being asked to repay is too high. Mr A thinks it would be fairer if 
he just made payments towards his initial borrowing of £600.
As this matter hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules and regulations throughout Aquas lending relationship with Mr A required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Aqua had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this 
meant that Aqua had to ensure that repaying the credit wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty 
or adverse consequences. 
Aquas checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit application. 
These checks could consider a number of different things, but there was no set list of checks 
Aqua had to do. With this in mind, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Aqua did what it needed to before 
initially agreeing to open Mr As credit card account.
Aqua says its decision to offer credit is based on the information supplied at the time the 
account was opened alongside other information it holds and its internal approach to risk. 
Aqua says it found some adverse information in its checks, but overall Mr A passed the 
affordability and financial difficulties checks. Aqua says that from the checks it carried out, it 
had no concerns about Mr As ability to afford the credit he was being offered.
From what Ive seen, Mr A told Aqua he was employed with an annual income of £28,000 
when he applied to open his account. I think it Aqua could have asked Mr A for more 
information about his regular expenditure before it opened his account. It is difficult to 
establish whether repayments are affordable without an understanding of a consumers 
normal costs. But even if Aqua had asked Mr A for more information about his expenditure, I 
dont think it would have made a difference to Aquas decision to open the account. 
Mr A thinks Aquas checks didnt go far enough. But I dont think there was enough recent, 
adverse information uncovered in Aquas credit checks that ought it reasonably to have led 
Aqua to carry out more in-depth checks. I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Aqua 
to ask Mr A for the amount of information that would be needed to show the credit was 
unsustainable before opening the account and agreeing the initial credit limit. Overall, I dont 
think Aqua was wrong to open Mr As account or to offer him an initial credit limit of £600.
Should Aqua have increased Mr As credit limits?
From what Ive seen of Mr As financial circumstances and the way he used his account, I 
think Aqua ought not to have increased Mr As credit limit in April 2018 and I think it ought 
reasonably to have frozen the account from August 2019. However, Aqua has already 
agreed with this outcome. So, I dont need to consider this issue any further apart what Aqua 
must do to put things right, which I set out below.
Has Aqua acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr A thinks that Aqua hasnt treated him fairly and it continued to ask him for payments 
despite knowing he was suffering ill health and financial problems. I am sorry that Mr A has 
been in poor health, but it seems that Aqua did ask Mr A to contact it to discuss his concerns 
Overall, I cant fairly say that Aqua has acted unreasonably or unfairly towards him.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Aqua should:
Refund the additional interest and charges that it added to Mr As account as a result 
of the credit limit increase it applied in April 2018. Mr A should just be charged 
interest on the previous limit of £600. All interest and charges should also be refunded from August 2019 onwards.
Payments made since the first credit limit increase in April 2018 should be deducted 
from the accounts amended balance and any excess refunded to Mr A with 8% 
interest calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. HM 
Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Aqua remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file from April 2018, 
once any outstanding balance has been cleared.
Aqua has now told us that it has refunded all interest and charges applied to Mr As account 
since April 2018 and applied 8% interest, which left an outstanding balance of just over 
£2,445. 
Aqua has provided a breakdown of its calculations and it has also said it will amend Mr As 
credit file straight away. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
and goes somewhat beyond what I think Aqua has do to put things right. 
Mr A thinks the amount he is still being asked to pay is too high and that he should only 
make repayments towards his original credit limit of £600. Ive not seen anything which 
makes me thinks Aquas calculations are incorrect or unfair. Mr A has had the benefit of the 
credit provided. I think it is fair and reasonable for him to repay any outstanding balance, 
after the account balance has been re-worked as set out above. 
In the circumstances, I am not going to ask Aqua to anything more than I set out above, but I 
expect Aqua to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically and try to arrange a repayment plan 
that is affordable for him, in order that he can repay the outstanding balance on his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct New Day Limited trading as 
Aqua to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman