DRN-3020705
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) settled a claim made 
against her car insurance policy as a fault claim. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss M was involved in an incident with a third party. RSA settled the 
claim on a shared liability basis 50%50%. 
Miss M said she recently became aware that there were was CCTV in the location of the 
incident and feels RSA should have investigated this. She didnt think RSA had done enough 
to obtain a statement from an independent witness shed given contact details for. 
RSA said it called the witness but was unable to speak with him. And it wasnt made aware 
of any CCTV in the location when Miss M reported the incident. It said its decision was 
correct based on the information available to it. So Zurich didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint in 
relation to the settlement of the claim. 
However, it found that an agent had failed to let Miss M know of the outcome when it offered 
to settle the claim on a 50%50% shared liability basis as agreed  and there had been a 
period of inactivity on the claim. So for its poor service, Zurich paid Miss M total 
compensation of £150.
Miss M remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint about the way RSA settled 
the claim. Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted unreasonably. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said if RSA had made more effort to contact the witness, he would 
have shown that she wasnt at fault for the incident. So Miss M wants an ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Miss Ms policy has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance 
policies. This term allows RSA to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Miss 
Ms name. This means RSA might make a decision Miss M disagrees with, but the policy 
allows RSA to do so. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer can 
show it treated a customer fairly when applying it. 
The circumstances of the incident are that Miss M said she slowed down in her car to turn 
left  and as she proceeded to turn, a cyclist collided into her car from behind. Miss M says 
she didnt see the cyclist. 
The cyclist said they were correctly proceeding when Miss M collided into them. 
RSA instructed an assessor to obtain a witness statement from Miss M. Miss M believes she 
provided an address as well as a phone number for the independent witness. Miss M told 
RSA that shed tried to call him but  like RSA  wasnt able to speak with him. 
Ive checked RSAs notes and the assessors report. Both list the witness details as their first 
name and mobile number, but no address. 
Having reviewed the incident location, the information from both parties, and case law, RSA 
was of the view that the best outcome in settling the claim was to offer a split of 50%50% to 
the third party. I understand Miss M believes she wasnt at fault  but as Ive explained RSA 
can take over the defence of the claim and make a decision Miss M may not agree with. 
I cant hold RSA responsible for not being able to obtain a witness statement after it called to 
speak to the witness. From the notes, Miss M told RSA she had also called the witness but 
hadnt been able to speak with him. RSA explained that it wouldnt repeatedly call if the 
witness failed to reply as it could be considered as harassment. 
In relation to the CCTV, RSA said footage wasnt mentioned when it and the assessor spoke 
to Miss M. The assessor carried out a locus assessment of the location and RSA believes if 
footage was obviously available, the assessor would have looked to retrieve it to assist with 
liability. 
I understand Miss M is unhappy with RSAs decision to settle the claim as a 50%50% fault 
claim as she feels she isnt at fault for the incident. And I appreciate that the outcome of the 
claim has caused Miss M worry and anxiety. But I think RSA treated Miss M fairly and 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. And as RSA settled the claim on 
a without prejudice basis, this means Miss M can consider taking legal action against the 
third party directly. Miss M will need to seek her own legal advice about that. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman