DRN-3519670
The complaint
Mrs N has complained through a representative about Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limiteds (L&G) decision to avoid a joint life insurance policy taken out by her and 
Mr N and decline a claim under it as a result of this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a life insurance policy with L&G in October 2007 through an 
independent financial adviser. Sadly, Mr N died in 2020 and Mrs N made a claim under 
the policy on behalf of the estate of Mr N, but also in her own capacity as joint 
policyholder.
Mr N had answered the following questions on the application form he completed and 
signed as follows:
Height Metric 1.75m Height Imperial 5ft 9in 
Weight Metric 85.7kg Height Imperial 13st 
7lb
What is your average weekly consumption of alcohol in units? 8
In the last 5 years has your average alcohol consumption ever been higher than your 
current average? No
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption? 
No Have you ever had any of the following:
Multiple sclerosis, vision disturbances, including optic or retrobulbar neuritis, epilepsy or 
fits? No
Muscular dystrophy, paralysis, curable palsy, or any neurological condition, for 
example motor neurone disease? No
In the last 5 years, have you had any medical advice for any of the following:
Chest pain, irregular heartbeat, raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or 
condition affecting your veins, for example palpitations, deep vein thrombosis? No
In the last 12 months have you had any medical condition, symptoms, illness or injury, 
not mentioned previously, for which you have had or been advised to have, any 
medical or surgical investigation, consultation, blood test, or follow up? No
L&G has said that Mr Ns medical records showed the 
following: 24/01/2006
Height 172.7m, Weight at 95.254kg.
15/12/2006
Weight 
101.6kg June 
2008 Weight 
98.88k 
15/12/2006
Alcohol consumption is stated as 28 units per week and a blood test is 
due Health education was offered for weight and alcohol use
Mr N had requested a tablet to help cut down his 
drinking He stated he was drinking 2-3 pints per day
GP provided him with details of an alcohol rehabilitation 
centre He advised him to have a blood test
Blood pressure measured as 150/92 and a further appointment for 4 weeks' time 
was agreed for a further blood pressure check
24/01/2006
Problem  Seizure NOS (Not otherwise specified) 
Review Blood pressure 150/90
Examination of eyes and vision  NAD (No abnormality 
detected) No known allergies
Never smoked tobacco
L&G wrote to Mrs N and asked her to provide an explanation for what appeared to be 
the incorrect answers provided by Mr N.
Mrs N responded as follows:
Mr Ns weight did fluctuate up and down over the years. He was never prescribed medication 
for high blood pressure. Mr Ns alcohol intake would fluctuate, and he may have had eight 
pints one week, then three or four the following week. Nothing significant enough to be of 
concern. She was unsure why he asked for tablets, but can see the GP wasnt concerned 
enough to prescribe medication or follow up treatment.
L&G then wrote to Mrs N and said it thought Mr N had answered questions on the
application incorrectly and that if hed answered them correctly it would not have provided 
him with cover under the policy. It explained that it would normally avoid the policy (treat it 
as if it never existed) and refund all the premiums. But, because Mrs N was the joint owner 
of the policy, she could continue with the policy in her name only with a refund of the 
premiums applicable for Mr N. Or it could cancel the whole policy and refund all the 
premiums.
Mrs N registered a complaint about L&Gs decision and then appointed the representative 
to represent her in dealing with this. L&G issued a final response letter to Mrs Ns representative in February 2021. In this is said it was satisfied the decision taken with 
regards to the policy was correct. It seems the whole policy was cancelled retrospectively 
from its start date (avoided) and all the premiums refunded.
Mrs Ns representative asked us to consider Mrs Ns complaint. One of our investigators 
did this and concluded that L&G was entitled to take the action it had with regards to the 
policy. He said he didnt think Mr Ns answers to the questions about his weight, alcohol 
consumption, a previous seizure and blood pressure were material to the outcome of his 
complaint. But, he thought Mr N had answered the question on whether hed been 
advised to have a blood test incorrectly and that this was material. This was on the basis 
that if Mr N had said hed been advised to have a blood test L&G would have postponed 
the application on the basis it was not possible to work out what would have happened if 
Mr N had had the blood test, as he didnt actually have one until 2013.
Mrs Ns representative didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
Having reviewed the complaint I sent an email to L&G setting out my initial thoughts. In 
this, I explained why at that stage I felt the only things it was absolutely clear Mr N 
misrepresented on his application were his height and weight. Although, I did follow this up 
with an email saying I thought what hed put as his height was unlikely to be a 
misrepresentation, as it was only 2cm more than his actual height. L&G came back to say 
it didnt agree with my comments. I reconsidered my view in light of what it said and having 
reviewed the evidence again. I set out what L&G said and my view on the complaint in a 
provisional decision, which I issued on 30 May 2022. I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Our investigator suggested the relevant law for consideration in this case is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012. However, this is incorrect, as this 
legislation only applies to consumer contracts (policies) taken out from 6 April 2013 
onwards. Mr and Mrs Ns policy was taken out in October 2007. The relevant law is 
therefore the Marine Insurance Act 1906. However, in considering Mr and Mrs Ns claim 
L&G needed to follow the good industry practice set out in the ABI Code of Practice  
Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection 
Insurance Products  September 2019 (the Code).
This means that in deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome to Ns complaint I need 
to take into account The Marine Insurance Act and the Code.
The Marine Insurance Act required Mr and Mrs N to provide L&G with material facts 
about the risk they were asking it to insure. And if they failed to provide a material fact or 
facts and this induced L&G to enter into the policy, then L&G would have the right to 
avoid the policy (treat it as if it never existed).
However, the Code sets out three categories of what it describes as misrepresentations 
based on incorrect answers to the questions the customer was asked. These are 
innocent, where the customer acted honestly and reasonably, careless, where they took 
insufficient care and deliberate or reckless, where they knew or must have known the 
information provided was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer. And the Code 
makes it clear that customers cant be expected to provide information that they are not 
asked for and that, in assessing claims, insurers should consider all of the 
circumstances around the application including:
How clear and concise the relevant questions were.Whether the customer had the opportunity to check their answers.
The warnings given and whether these were adequately prominent.
The Code then goes on to give remedies for misrepresentations falling into these 
categories depending on whether the insurer can show that without these theyd have 
offered cover on different terms or not at all.
Taking each of the questions L&G has said Mr N answered incorrectly in 
turn: Height and weight
Based on the evidence in his GP record, I think it is most likely Mr N provided the wrong 
weight on his application. I accept his weight did fluctuate. However, according to his GP 
records he weighed 101.6kg on 15 December 2007. And his GP records show he 
weighed 95.254kg on 24 January 2006. In view of this, I think it is highly unlikely Mr N 
weighed 85.7kg at the time of his application in October 2007 or reasonably thought this 
was the case. I say this because only two months after this he weighed around 15kg 
more and he even weighed around 10kg more around 9 months before. So, I think Mr N 
must have realised his weight was a lot more than 85.7kg at the time of his application. It 
is odd the figure recorded is so precise, as it implies that Mr N weighed himself near the 
date of the application, but I cant see how his weight could have gone down to 85.7kg 
and then up to 101.6kg in the space of two months. This would mean Mr N would have 
needed to have put on 15.9kg (nearly two and a half stone) in around two months, which 
seems highly unlikely.
The Code describes deliberate misrepresentation as when the customer knew, or must 
have known, that the representation they made in answer to a question was incorrect and 
knew, or must have known that the information was relevant to the insurer. The Code 
also says that careless misrepresentation extends as far as serious negligence. Bearing 
in mind my view that Mr N must have had at least some idea his weight was a lot more 
than 85.7kg, I think his misrepresentation can be said to be in the realm of serious 
negligence and therefore classed as careless under the Code.
Have you ever had any of the following:
Multiple sclerosis, vision disturbances, including optic or retrobulbar neuritis, epilepsy or 
fits? No
Muscular dystrophy, paralysis, curable palsy, or any neurological condition, for 
example motor neurone disease? No
There is a seizure recorded in Mr Ns GP record in January 2006. But there is no follow 
up noted, despite it saying review in brackets next to it. Mrs N has said at this point  as 
far as she knows  Mr N had never had a seizure. And the fact his GP never followed this 
up does back this up. It is curious that it is noted, but I dont think that there is enough for 
L&G to
show Mr N answered the above questions incorrectly on the basis hed had a seizure. 
And I note that L&G has not argued he did make a misrepresentation in this regard.
In the last 5 years, have you had any medical advice for any of the following:
Chest pain, irregular heartbeat, raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or 
condition affecting your veins, for example palpitations, deep vein thrombosis? No
I can see Mr N did have raised blood pressure in the five years before taking out the policy. But there is nothing in his GP notes that suggest to me he ever had medical 
advice for this. And it doesnt seem he had medication for it prior to taking out the policy.
L&G has suggested that Mr Ns GP would have been quite concerned about Mr Ns blood 
pressure reading in December 2006 of 150/92. And it has argued that this combined with 
his BMI and alcohol consumption would have caused his GP a great deal of concern. Its 
suggested this would have led his GP to counsel Mr N on diet, alcohol consumption and 
lifestyle to address these issues. Its said this and the fact Mr N was advised to have his 
blood pressure checked again reinforces its view that Mr N would have received medical 
advice about his blood pressure.
Its clear from Mr Ns GP notes that his GP educated him about the dangers of being 
overweight, but I need to consider whether Mr N acted honestly and reasonably in 
answering the abovementioned question. And, I think whats important in doing this is to 
consider what Mr N would have thought was meant by the term medical advice. I say this 
because even if his GP educated Mr N about the dangers of being overweight, Mr N 
wouldnt necessarily have seen this as medical advice about his blood pressure, as 
opposed to general medical advice about the various health issues being overweight could 
cause; especially in light of the fact his GP did not prescribe any medication for his blood 
pressure.
So, whilst I have considered L&Gs view on what Mr Ns GP would actually have said to 
him, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to be satisfied its view that Mr N would 
have realised hed had medical advice about high blood pressure is correct.
In the last 12 months have you had any medical condition, symptoms, illness or injury,
not mentioned previously, for which you have had or been advised to have, any medical 
or surgical investigation, consultation, blood test, or follow up? No
I can see that in his notes about his discussion with Mr N about his alcohol consumption 
his GP said he had arranged a blood test. However, there is nothing to suggest this was 
because of a medical condition, symptoms, illness or injury. It seems most likely to have 
been because Mr N had expressed concern about his alcohol consumption, but there is 
nothing to suggest he had any symptoms that were a cause for concern or any other 
medical condition or illness. Therefore, I dont think L&G have shown Mr N answered this 
question incorrectly.
L&G has said the purpose of the blood test Mr Ns GP decided he should have was to 
rule out various medical conditions and check for various things. However, whilst this 
may well be true, there is nothing to suggest Mr N was told this was the reason for the 
blood test or would have realised this. In any event, if the blood test was to check for 
things that could be wrong, it clearly wasnt as a result of an identified medical condition, 
symptoms or illness. I say this because there is no mention of any of these in Mr Ns GP 
notes following his consultation in December 2006. And he only saw his GP once more 
after this before the policy application and there is no mention in the GP notes of a blood 
test on this visit. This means I dont think L&G has shown Mr N answered the question 
about this incorrectly.
What is your average weekly consumption of alcohol in units? 8
In the last 5 years has your average alcohol consumption ever been higher than your 
current average? No
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption? NoMr Ns GP notes show he was drinking 28 units per week or 2-3 pints per day in January 
2006 (this should have said December 2006). This means Mr N must have answered the 
second of these questions incorrectly. I say this because his GP notes show it is most 
likely that at some point in the previous five years Mr Ns alcohol consumption had been 
higher than 8 units per week.
L&G has also argued Mr N answered the third question incorrectly on the basis of the 
notes of his discussion with his GP. These do say health education given for alcohol. And 
its hard to see how Mr Ns GP wouldnt have included advice to reduce his alcohol 
consumption as part of this education. I say this as Mr N had said he was drinking over the 
recommended intake and had himself asked for help to reduce his consumption. So, I 
think it is more likely than not that Mr N was advised by his GP to reduce his alcohol 
consumption in December 2006. And this means he also answered the question about this 
incorrectly.
Bearing in mind Mr N was concerned enough about his alcohol consumption in 
December 2006 to ask his GP for help, I think it is most likely that in answering no to the 
second and third questions about this Mr N made deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentations where he knew or must have known the information provided was 
both incorrect and relevant to L&G.
As I think Mr N made three misrepresentations in answering the abovementioned 
questions, I now need to consider whether these give L&G the right to avoid Mr and Mrs 
Ns policy. And Im satisfied they do.
L&G has suggested if Mr N had provided the correct weight it would have applied a 
loading and charged a higher monthly premium. And its provided evidence to support 
this, which I agree does show it would have done this. If this was the only 
misrepresentation Mr N had made, because it was negligent, which would be classed as 
careless, L&G would not have the right under the Code to avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy.
However, L&G has provided underwriting evidence to show that if Mr N had answered 
the question about being advised to reduce his alcohol consumption correctly it would 
have asked further questions and the answers to these would have led to them getting 
a GP report. And Im satisfied this would have been the case. Im also satisfied this 
would have alerted them to the fact Mr N had high blood pressure and had been told to 
have a blood test.
L&G has now provided a copy of its underwriting guide from 2007. And this has various 
categories of risk classification in relation to alcohol. From his GP records it seems the 
most L&G could have assumed Mr N was drinking in 2007 was at least 28 units per week, 
as his GP records suggested this was the case in December 2006. Of course, its 
possible Mr N could have reduced his consumption by the time of his application. And all 
L&G could have done was ask him. But  even if I assume L&G would have considered 
Mr N as a risk in terms of alcohol on the basis of slightly more than 28 units per week, this 
would have put him in the risk category in its underwriting guide of Free-users, regular or 
frequent drinkers. And L&Gs underwriting guide suggests that he would have been 
offered standard terms for life cover.
However, I think the GP report L&G would have obtained would have included a record of 
Mr Ns discussion with his GP in December 2006 about wanting to reduce his consumption 
and the suggestion his GP made to contact an alcohol advice service. And L&Gs 
underwriting guide suggests that any indication of alcoholism would have resulted in a decline. But there is nothing in Mr Ns GP records that actually state Mr N was suffering 
from alcoholism. I appreciate his GP had suggested he could contact an alcohol treatment 
centre, but this appears to have been in response to a concern raised by Mr N, as 
opposed to a clear indication of alcoholism.
However L&Gs underwriting guide does state very clearly that signs of any condition will 
usually be rated. And once it got details of Mr Ns discussion with his GP, Im satisfied 
L&G would have considered Mr N to have some sort of condition relating to alcohol 
because of his concern and request for a tablet to help him reduce his consumption. 
This means Im satisfied L&G would at least have charged Mr N a higher premium if hed 
answered the questions about his alcohol consumption correctly. And  because Ive 
concluded Mr Ns misrepresentations in answering these questions was deliberate or 
reckless, Im also satisfied L&G was entitled to avoid his and Mrs Ns policy because of 
them.
I also think the GP report L&G would have obtained would have shown Mr N had been 
told to have a blood test. And Ive seen from L&Gs archived underwriting information that 
 if it had known this - it would have postponed Mr Ns application and written to him telling 
him to re-apply once the result of his blood test had become available. The Code states 
that where an application would have been deferred like this, the insurer should try to 
determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been and apply the 
appropriate remedy. The Code goes on to say if it isnt possible to work out whether the 
insurer would have offered any cover, or if the deferral decision would have required the 
customer to re-apply at a future date, then this should be treated as a decline. In view of 
this, Im satisfied that L&G was entitled to treat Mr Ns application as if it would have been 
declined and avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy. This is purely on the basis that Im satisfied if 
Mr N had answered the questions about his alcohol consumption properly L&G would 
have ended up requesting a GP report and this would have shown he had been told to 
have a blood test, which he still hadnt had at point of application.
Im also satisfied that Mr Ns application carried an appropriate warning about the 
importance of answering the questions on it correctly. And that he was given the 
opportunity to check his answers.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr N did make reckless or deliberate misrepresentations in 
response to the questions on his application about his alcohol consumption and that this 
gave L&G the right to avoid his and Mrs Ns policy. This means it is not appropriate for me 
to uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
I gave both parties 14 days to provide further evidence and comments. 
L&G responded to say that it remained of the view that misrepresentations occurred in 
respect of Mr Ns raised blood pressure and outstanding blood test. It pointed out that it 
had already provided a full explanation of its position on this, together with a professional 
medical opinion and it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs Ns representative responded to say their understanding of the reasoning of my 
provisional decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint based on the possibility 
that L&G may have requested a GP report and, the possibility that the GP may have 
flagged up potential concerns relating to alcohol and an outstanding blood test. And they 
suggested the possibility exists that had a GP report been requested the contents of it 
(based on actual medical evidence) may have provided reassurance. And they asked that 
I take into account that an actual GP report was produced in relation to Mr N in January 
2006 for the purposes of adoption. They said in completing such a report a GP is duty 
bound to take account of the applicants full medical history, current health and health related lifestyle factors and is required to evaluate these carefully to provide advice on the 
applicants medical history. They attached a copy of the GP report and pointed out the 
following:
1. The GP advised of no medical or lifestyle concerns in respect of the applicant. 
2. Mr N was told he had a clean bill of health. 
3. The consultation for the report took place on 24 January 2006.
4. The only other consultation prior to the policy application was on 15 December 2006. 
5. It is established that the units of alcolhol recorded as consumed by Mr N on this report 
would not have altered the terms offered by L&G when he applied for a policy with 
them. 
6. Factually, there is no indication in Mr Ns medical records that he was sufferring from 
alcoholism prior to or after applying for the policy. The information omitted or allegedly 
misrepresented did not induce L&G to make a different underwriting decision. 
7. In the following years, there were no issues raised in respect of any health concerns, 
suggesting on balance, the GP report of January 2006 was accurate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted L&Gs view that misrepresentations occurred with regards to Mr Ns blood 
pressure and outstanding blood test. But, I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt 
think hed failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations on these issues. 
And my view on this hasnt changed. 
Ive noted Mrs Ns representatives point that my reason for not upholding her complaint is 
based on the possibility that L&G may have requested a GP report. But, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think it is more likely than not that L&G would have requested one if 
Mr N had answered the questions on his alcohol consumption correctly. This remains my 
view for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
Having received Mrs Ns representatives response to my provisional decision I asked L&G 
to provide a copy of the GP report it would have requested if Mr N had answered the 
questions about his alcohol consumption correctly. It provided this, along with the covering 
letter that would have gone with it.  
The report has a section on it entitled Past health. In it is says the following:
If the patient has had any relevant illness, trauma, referrals for specialist advice or 
treatment, hospital admissions, consultations with you, or any medical adviser, therapist or 
counsellor, please give details. As insurers we are usually concerned with rates of death and 
disease over the longer term. In particular, we are interested in the following:
Conditions related to drug or alcohol misuse or smoking or chewing tobacco.
There is a table underneath this with columns for the GP to complete and one of the column 
headings which is next to the heading that says Episode or condition says:
Investigations carried out, treatment or other management regime (for example, change in 
diet or reduction in smoking) and outcome.
There was also a question on the form that said Are you waiting for the results of any referrals or tests?. 
Bearing in mind Mr N had seen his GP in December 2006 and asked for a tablet to help him 
reduce his alcohol consumption and his GP had suggested he contact an alcohol advice 
service; I think when completing this report its more likely than not that Mr Ns GP would 
have mentioned the consultation he had with Mr N about this. I think hed have also 
mentioned that Mr N said in this discussion he was consuming 28 units of alcohol per week 
or 2-3 pints a day. And that hed also have said Mr N was due to have a blood test. I say this 
as I think he would have seen the blood test as part of the investigation into whether Mr Ns 
alcohol consumption was having any impact on his health. And this view is supported by the 
fact that in his notes of the discussion about his drinking Mr Ns GP wrote Advised to contact 
E. Details given. + Blood tests.
And  even if Mr Ns GP didnt mention the outstanding blood test in the section about past 
health, I think its more likely than not that hed have included it in his response to the 
question on whether he was awaiting the results of any tests. I say this because the GPs 
notes suggest Mr N was due a blood test and that hed offered him education for both being 
overweight and his alcohol consumption. And I think the blood test would have been to 
check his state of health generally, especially in view of both these issues. 
This means Im still satisfied that if Mr N had answered the questions about alcohol 
consumption correctly L&G would have found out hed been advised to have a blood test 
and that it would have postponed (deferred) his application until this had happened and the 
results were available.
I sent a copy of the GP report and set out the reasons why I thought the GP would have 
included details in it of Mr Ns alcohol consumption and the fact he was due to have a blood 
test to Mrs Ns representative. And I gave them the opportunity to provide further comments.
Theyve come back to say they are concerned that L&Gs position is based on speculation. 
Theyve also pointed out the following: that Mr N had a surgical consultation less than four 
weeks after he discussed his alcohol consumption with his GP and there is no mention in the 
GP notes of blood tests. He was also seen in 2008 and there was no mention of a blood test. 
And he was referred for blood tests in 2009 as part of a consultation. Blood tests that would 
have caused concern were recorded some seven years after Mr N made his application to 
L&G. 
Mrs Ns representative has also said that it is difficult to say, based on computerised records, 
whether Mr N did or did not have a blood test in 2006. All that we can be certain of is that 
blood test results werent added to his medical records. And that there was no concern 
flagged by Mr Ns GP surgery at this time. I presume they mean no concern about blood test 
results. 
Ive noted what Mrs Ns representative has said, but L&Gs approach and my review of it is 
based on the balance of probabilities, ie what is more likely than not to have happened if Mr 
N had answered the questions in his application about alcohol consumption correctly. Im 
satisfied that if he had done, it is more likely than not that L&G would have obtained a GP 
report; and that in it Mr Ns GP would have mentioned his discussion with him about alcohol 
consumption and the fact hed been advised to have a blood test. 
I think if Mr N had had the blood test the results would be in his GP records. It would have 
been standard procedure for the clinic or hospital who did the blood test to provide these 
direct to Mr Ns GP. Therefore, if hed had the test, I think the result would show in his GP 
records. The fact it does not means I think it is more likely than not that he didnt have the 
blood test. This means that it is not possible to determine what would have happened with Mr and Mrs Ns application after it had been deferred. And this means L&Gs decision to 
avoid his policy is in line with the law and good industry practice as set out in the Code.  
Dealing with the further points on the GP report Mrs Ns representative has made in relation 
to the actual GP report in the same order:
1. I appreciate in the report he provided for Mr Ns adoption application; the GP didnt 
mention any lifestyle issues. But, at this point (January 2006) Mr N hadnt been to see 
him to express concern about his drinking or to ask for a tablet to help him reduce his 
alcohol consumption. I think if he had been to see him prior to the GP completing the 
adoption report he would have mentioned it in the report. 
2. Mr Ns GP did give Mr N a clean bill of health, but at this point he wasnt aware Mr N was 
drinking 28 units per week or 2-3 pints per day or that he was concerned about this. So 
Im not convinced hed have responded in the same way if hed completed the report 
after his discussion with Mr N in December 2006. 
3. I think the fact the consultation for the report took place in January 2006 is significant, 
because it means it was before the discussion Mr N had with his GP about his alcohol 
consumption; so his GP could not take this into account when he completed his report. 
4. The consultation on 15 December 2006 was indeed the only one after the consultation 
for the adoption application. And it was a very significant one, because it was at this 
consultation that Mr N discussed his concern about his alcohol consumption and was 
most likely advised to reduce it. 
5. The level of alcohol consumption in this report would not have resulted in L&G altering its 
terms. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that if Mr N had 
declared, as he should have done, that his average alcohol consumption had been 
higher than 8 units per week in the previous five years, L&G would have charged a 
higher premium, ie it would have altered the terms it was willing to provide cover on.
6. I accept there is no factual evidence that Mr N was suffering from or had suffered from 
alcoholism at the time he applied for his policy with L&G. However, in my opinion, this is 
not significant. What is significant is that Mr N answered two questions about his alcohol 
consumption incorrectly and this led to L&G accepting his application instead of deferring 
it. 
7. I accept that for many years after Mr N made his application to L&G there is nothing in 
his GP notes to suggest any concerns about his health. However, this doesnt alter the 
fact that he did have a discussion with his GP in December 2006 about his alcohol 
consumption and then answered two questions on his application about it incorrectly.
Therefore, it remains my view that if Mr N had not failed to take reasonable care not to 
make misrepresentations (by answering the questions about alcohol consumption 
correctly on his application) L&G would have found out hed been advised to have a blood 
test and would have deferred his application. 
I think the Marine Insurance Act allows L&G to avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy on the grounds 
of his failure to disclose that hed consumed more than 8 units of alcohol per week in the 
previous 12 months and that he had received advice to reduce his alcohol consumption. I 
say this because Im satisfied this non-disclosure induced L&G to enter into the contract 
with Mr N on different terms.
And, whilst L&G also needed to take into account the ABI Code of Practice  Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance 
Products  September 2019, this states that where an application would have been 
deferred, the insurer should try to determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would 
have been and apply the appropriate remedy. It goes on to say if it isnt possible to work 
out whether the insurer would have offered any cover, or if the deferral decision would 
have required the customer to re-apply at a future date, then this should be treated as a 
decline. L&G was not able to work out whether it would have offered cover after deferring 
Mr Ns application as he didnt actually have the blood test he was advised to have. And 
this means under the Code L&G was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy. 
In summary, it remains my view that L&Gs decision to avoid Mr and Mrs Ns policy and 
decline Mrs Ns claim was reasonable and that allowing this decision to stand is the fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mrs Ns complaint
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint about Legal and General Assurance Society Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman