DRN-2679277
The complaint
Mr W and Ms A are unhappy that the broker, Lloyd & Whyte Ltd (LW), marketed a home 
insurance policy as covering theft from student accommodation, but the insurer declined 
their claim. 
Mr W and Ms A took out buildings and contents cover through LW in joint names but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr W throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his policy for theft from his daughters student accommodation. 
The insurer declined the claim, in part, because it classed the accommodation as private 
rather than student rental. He complained to LW because it marketed the policy as providing 
cover for theft from student accommodation. If students wouldnt be covered in all 
accommodation types, hed have expected LW to tell him that so he could make an informed 
decision.
LW explained that the insurer made the decision to decline the claim based on its definition 
of student accommodation and because there was no evidence of force or violence. It went 
on to say that it made the relevant information available to Mr W and it couldnt change the 
insurers decision.
While Mr W accepted the insurers decision, he remained unhappy that LW hadnt provided 
relevant information when he took out the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that LW made the key terms of the 
policy available at the time it sold the policy, and Mr W had a responsibility to check the 
detailed terms to make sure it covered what he needed.
Mr W didnt agree. He said many students lived in private accommodation after their first 
year, so he thought LW shouldve clarified what was covered as a key term of the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill mention Mr Ws complaint about the insurer because it is relevant to my decision. 
Mr W raised a complaint with both LW (the broker) and the underwriter of the policy (the 
insurer). The insurer declined Mr Ws claim for two reasons  because there was no forced 
or violent entry and the theft was from private accommodation.
The key issue of complaint about LW is whether it provided enough information about cover 
for belongings in student accommodation and, if not, whether it has a responsibility to cover 
Mr Ws loss.
Mr W accepts that his daughter lived in private accommodation, but he says thats typical for 
second year university students. He says that if LW had defined student accommodation in 
its documentation, he couldve arranged the right level of cover.
LW provided documentation including a selection of significant areas of cover, also stating 
A full policy wording is available on our website.
 
The fifth item on the list of cover says:
Belongings of children at university up to £5000
The policy renewal information for the claim year states contents cover is provided for:
Student belongings Up to maximum claim limit for contents
Maximum for any one item of Student belongings £5,000
And, Ive looked at the wording in Mr Ws policy, which states that cover is not provided for:
Theft or attempted theftin halls of residence or student accommodation unless there is 
evidence that forcible and violent entry took place.
The policy does not include a definition of student accommodation. 
So, its for me to decide whether LW provided enough information for Mr W to make an 
informed decision when he renewed his policy. I think it did for the following reasons.
Mr W first took out the policy in 2017 and he told LW that he didnt have any children at 
university. When he renewed the policy in 2019, LW said:
We understand comparing the features, benefits and exclusions of insurance policies can 
often be difficult or time consuming and so should you require assistance in comparing 
cover, please contact us and we will be happy to help.
What to do next Please check the details in the enclosed documents are correct and the 
cover meets your needs.
Mr Ws circumstances had changed since he first took out the policy with LW  his daughter 
was at university  so I think it was his responsibility to check that his policy provided cover 
for students belongings away from home. That said, I agree with Mr W that theres nothing 
in the policy which suggests his daughters belongings wouldnt be covered. I think a 
reasonable person would think student accommodation is any accommodation aimed at 
higher education students, such as those with term-time rental agreements, regardless of 
whether it was owned by the university. And I think this view is supported by the policy 
because it references both halls of residence and student accommodation, implying there is 
a difference between them.
While I agree with Mr W about what might be considered student accommodation, I dont 
think LW was at fault for not making him aware that student accommodation wasnt defined, 
or that the insurer might apply a strict definition. Mr W thinks LW should compensate him for the loss which wouldve been insured if hed 
known he needed to seek cover elsewhere. Ive said I dont think LW did anything wrong, but 
even if it had known that the insurer would apply a strict definition of student 
accommodation, the insurer would still have declined his claim for the reason it gave - there 
was no evidence of force or violence. So, the definition of student accommodation is 
irrelevant to the claim outcome and LW didnt cause Mr W any loss. For that reason, I wont 
be asking LW to pay compensation.
In summary, I agree that the student accommodation policy term is undefined and open to 
interpretation. But the insurer declined Mr Ws claim under the force and violence exclusion, 
so I see no reason to require LW to compensate him for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman