DRN-1760426
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr E says he took out a finance agreement in early 2019 for a computer that was for his ex-
partner. He says that he was unaware that four payments were missed in 2019 that led to 
the default being registered. And says his ex-partner took a large amount of money out of his 
account which led to the missed payments. Mr E says he was in a difficult relationship and 
his ex-partner was returning his mail without his knowledge. He says when he found out 
what took place, he repaid the money, but the default will affect his mortgage application and 
says it should be removed.
Barclays Partner Finance says Mr E took out the agreement and it was his responsibility to 
make the repayments. It says it acted in line with account terms and conditions by 
registering the default when Mr E missed the payments and says it sent numerous letters 
and text messages to him about the missed payments. It also says Mr E spoke to it in June 
2019 about his payments and that he expected money to be paid into his account.
Mr E brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays Partner Finance had acted in line with account terms and conditions when 
Mr E missed the payments, by registering a default. And that Mr E would have received 
some of the text messages before he stopped using his telephone. The investigator also 
thought that Mr E set up the direct debit payment from a different account to the one he said 
his ex-partner had taken money from.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was caused significant financial 
problems by his then partner and says Barclays Partner Finance ought to be able to say if 
letters were returned to it. He also questions if he should have received the loan in the first 
place due to his personal circumstances. Mr E would like the default removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclays Partner Finance has dealt 
fairly with this complaint. I realise Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied Mr E took out the loan agreement and in doing so would have agreed to the 
account terms and conditions. Those terms and conditions explain what will happen if 
regular payments were not made. There is no dispute here that a number of payments were 
missed and so I dont think Barclays Partner Finance acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
reasonably concluding its relationship with Mr E had broken down and that the account 
should be defaulted. Im also satisfied that Barclays Partner Finance told Mr E on numerous 
occasions that payments had been missed and that it intended to default the account. I can 
see that it sent letters and also tried to contact Mr E via text messages.
I appreciate that Mr E says his then partner took money out of his account. But that wasnt 
the account that Mr E had set up the direct debit from in order to repay Barclays Partner 
Finance and so I cant see why that is relevant. I also think that if Mr E intended to use the 
money that was taken from his account to repay Barclays Partner Finance, that he would 
have realised the money was missing. I have looked at Mr Es account statements and I 
think those statements show Mr Es account was in regular use and so I think he ought 
reasonably to have been aware of how much money was in it and if there was enough 
money to make sure the direct debit was paid.
I also appreciate that Mr E says his mail was returned without his knowledge and so was 
unaware of the direct debits failing. But I have made clear that I think Mr E ought to have 
been aware of that from his account statements and from being aware about how much 
money he had in that account. Overall, I think it was Mr Es responsibility to mange his 
account with Barclays Partner Finance and to make sure the payments were made. I accept 
that Mr E was experiencing difficulties, but I cant fairly hold Barclays Partner Finance 
responsible for that.
I can see from Barclays Partner Finance records that Mr E spoke to it on 26 June 2019 and 
at that stage there had been three missed direct debit payments. I can also see that Mr E 
made a payment via his debit card. So, I think it likely at that stage Mr E knew or ought 
reasonably to have known there were missed payments and his account was in arrears and 
think it unlikely he would have made a debit card payment unless that was the case. 
Overall, I find Barclays Partner Finance acted fairly by registering a default on Mr Es credit 
file as that accurately reflected the account position. I appreciate Mr E says he was in an 
abusive and difficult relationship, but I have made clear that I dont think Barclays Partner 
Finance could have known that or done anything differently. And that it was up to Mr E to 
manage his account and make sure the payments were made. I also think that Mr E had use 
of his telephone for part of the period in which Barclays Partner Finance sent him messages 
about the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman