DRN-4222161
The complaint
Mr W complains, via a professional representative, about the advice he received from 
Westpoint Financial Consultants Limited in relation to the transfer of benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
transfer was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Succession Financial Management Limited is responsible for answering complaints about 
the actions of Westpoint. So, for ease of reading this decision, Ill refer to Succession 
throughout.
What happened
In early 2009 Mr and Mrs W met with Succession to discuss their pension arrangements. 
Mrs W has also made a complaint about the advice she received at that time  about the 
transfer of benefits from the same DB scheme as Mr W to the same pension provider. That 
complaint has been considered separately by our service.
Succession completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. Mr W was 50, in good health, married with two non-dependent children. Mr and 
Mrs W were both working and indeed worked together. They owned their own home, with a 
mortgage at the time roughly 45% of the value of their property. They also owned two further 
properties that they rented out. They had no other outstanding debts and had savings of 
approximately £4,000. And their monthly income was recorded as exceeding their outgoings.
Succession noted that Mr and Mrs W were looking to move their pension benefits to a 
personal pension with a view, in the longer term, to using the flexibility and control a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) afforded to purchase their business property as an asset.
As part of the fact find, Succession asked Mr and Mrs W to indicate which category from a 
set of risk profiles theyd invest their pension funds in line with. It was recorded that theyd 
invest in line with the moderately adventurous risk profile. The description of this risk profile 
in the fact find says such an investor is Generally market aware and understands and is 
willing to accept a higher level of risk (including a small exposure to overseas markets) in 
return for the potential for higher returns in the longer term. They recognise that this may 
result in the value of their portfolio fluctuating, possibly significantly, in the short term.
On 27 March 2009, Succession sent Mr W a report, in which it said it would not recommend 
a transfer of his existing benefits. The report mentioned the rate of return required to provide 
pension benefits matching those the DB scheme offered (the critical yield) was unlikely to be 
achievable. 
Ive seen evidence that, on 30 March 2009, the Succession adviser sourced information 
about a conservative and defensive managed portfolio from a pension provider.
A typed letter, addressed to Succession and dated 8 April 2009, was signed by Mr W. This 
said Mr W had received Successions advice and noted You have recommended against 
transferring because of the critical yield required to match my existing benefits is 9.6%. You 
have also explained the loss of benefits regarding widows pension, and benefits paid to my 
children. I am also aware that the above rate needs to be matched to provide similar 
benefits, which in the current climate is very unlikely. The letter went on to say However, I 
still wish to transfer the money across to my SIPP, as it will add value to the Business, for 
the purpose of purchasing a property, and the subsequent rental income that will be added 
to the fund. I believe that the value added to the long term future of the Business is greater 
than the benefits lost in transferring. Therefore please see this as a letter instructing you to 
transfer the monies across to the SIPP, I also believe that by transferring into the SIPP, it will 
allow me with greater choice & flexibility in the running of my retirement affairs 
Succession sent Mr W a further report on 22 April 2009. This said, in light of his recent letter, 
hed now be treated as an insistent client. The letter went on to recommend a personal 
pension, with the provider that the adviser had researched on 30 March 2009. The letter 
explained that this personal pension provided the option to convert to a SIPP in the future to 
potentially enable the purchase of the commercial property when this became available. 
Succession recommended that Mr W invest in the providers conservative managed index as 
it felt this reflected his risk profile.
I understand Mr W reviewed the pension with Succession again in late 2009, with a view to 
releasing some tax-free cash. And Mr W took further advice from Succession in 2015, which 
resulted in the pension being transferred to a SIPP.
Mr W complained to Succession in 2022, via his representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice hed been given in 2009. His representative said he was financially 
inexperienced and the implications of the transfer, in particular losing his guaranteed 
pension benefits, hadnt been made clear.
Succession said it had advised against a transfer, so it didnt agree that unsuitable advice 
had been provided. It also said it thought the complaint had potentially been brought too late 
to be considered. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. He said he hadnt realised he had reason to 
complain until he spoke to his representative. His representative also said Mr W had no 
recollection of writing the insistent client letter and had simply signed a number of 
documents as part of the transfer process. They also noted that Mr W thought the advice 
hed been given in 2015 was also potentially unsuitable based on the recommended 
investments not being in line with his attitude to risk.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought that the complaint had been 
made in time for our Service to consider as he didnt think Mr W ought to have been aware 
of having cause to complain more than three years before he did so. Turning to the merits of 
the complaint, he didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied Succession had advised 
against a transfer and that Mr W had chosen to disregard this advice. So, he didnt think 
Succession was wrong to subsequently process the transfer and felt that Mr W would always 
have looked to proceed given his stated intentions. In terms of the 2015 advice, he thought 
the recommend funds were broadly suitable and that they hadnt exposed Mr W to greater 
risk than his existing pension at the time.
Mr W did not accept the Investigators opinion. His representative said, while hed signed a 
letter indicating he wanted to proceed, the wording and knowledge indicated in the letter 
didnt match Mr Ws, as accepted by the Investigator when concluding that the complaint had 
been made in time. So, it didnt think he was an insistent client and that this had potentially 
been facilitated by Succession. It also noted that our findings in respect of Mrs Ws 
complaint, which was largely about the same instance of advice, had been markedly 
different.The complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision earlier this 
month. I felt the complaint had been made within three years of when Mr W ought to have 
been aware of having reason to complain. And, although using the pension to potentially 
purchase the commercial property Mr and Mrs W used for their business as an asset was 
mentioned, this was not a confirmed objective. And was just a possibility at some point in the 
longer term. So, I was satisfied that Mr W was acting as a consumer. And so, I explained 
that I was satisfied that the complaint was one we could consider.
I went on to explain that I intended to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Successions actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. Including COBS 19.1.6G, in which the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Succession should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Was transferring in Mr Ws best interests?
Succession carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). It said that the critical yield 
for retiring at age 65, the normal scheme retirement age, was 9.3%. Or for retiring at age 60, 
was 10.9%. And Succession said it didnt consider these rates to be achievable. And I agree.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the time for 14 full years to retirement, which would be the case if Mr W were retiring at age 65 was 6.9%. And for 9 years to retirement, if he were retiring at 60, was 
6.4%. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the 
middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
Taking this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and the 
term to retirement, even if Mr W had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk as recorded, I 
think he was unlikely to achieve growth matching the critical yield. There would be little point 
in Mr W giving up the guarantees available through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think Mr W was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
And the information from the time indicates that Succession agreed with this.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits.
The recommendation noted that Mr W didnt expect to be able to retire before age 65. And 
there was nothing recorded about there being a need for an immediate lump sum. But it said 
Mr W was interested in the flexibility a personal pension provided, in case his circumstances 
changed and that he expected to take tax free cash when he did come to retire. However, 
with no confirmed plans to retire early I dont think transferring in order to have flexibility just 
in case was in Mr Ws best interests. Successions analysis indicated that Mr W was likely to 
receive more tax-free cash through his DB scheme at the normal scheme retirement age 
than through a personal pension, even if growth of 9% was achieved. And the guaranteed 
income the DB scheme wouldve provided appears to have been the most appropriate way 
to meet his expected income needs from age 65  when he realistically expected to retire. 
This is because he and Mrs W indicated they expected to need an income of roughly 50% of 
their income at the point of the advice, in retirement. Which their combined guaranteed DB 
scheme benefits wouldve exceeded. So, I dont think transferring for flexibility was in Mr Ws 
interests.
It was noted that the additional lump sum death benefits a personal pension would provide 
would be of interest to Mr W. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when 
asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was what was best 
for Mr Ws retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. The DB scheme also included existing death benefits  in particular a spouses 
pension, which wouldve been useful to Mrs W in the event Mr W predeceased her. And this 
was guaranteed, and it escalated. The information from the time also recorded the DB 
scheme was Mr Ws only retirement provision. And overall, I dont think different death 
benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of 
retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Succession said that Mr W wanted to break ties with his former employer and have control 
over his pension, so that he had the option at a later date to purchase his commercial 
premises as an asset within the pension. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W had left the employer through which they accrued the DB 
scheme benefits not long before they took advice. And I appreciate that, at that time, they 
mightve felt strongly about ending their relationship with the employer in full, as they were 
now working on a self-employed basis. But, as Ive explained, they were always likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value by transferring away from the DB scheme. And so, I dont think transferring for this purpose was in Mr Ws interests.
Turning to the control over the future investment of the pension, and using this to purchase 
their business premises, this seems to have been something that was being considered for 
the future but wasnt set in stone. The fact find described it as a longer-term aim. And again, 
there is no indication that the business premises were even available for purchase or would 
be in the future. And I cant see that Succession undertook any analysis about the potential 
cost of this, whether it could be achieved through the pension or whether this would be an 
appropriate investment for the pension  such as looking at the returns that could be 
expected.
Transferring from the DB scheme was irreversible and involved giving up guaranteed 
benefits. And so, I dont think to do so for a speculative future use of the fund was in Mr Ws 
interest, particularly bearing in mind he wouldve likely been able to transfer at a later date, if 
this had become a more certain objective. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
The advice given by Succession and whether Mr W was an insistent client
In its recommendation of 27 March 2009, Succession said it didnt recommend that Mr W 
transfer. And it set out that the critical yield was unlikely to be achievable and talked about 
how much tax-free cash was likely to be available in the DB scheme compared to after a 
transfer as well as the ways death benefits would differ. But its fair to say that a great deal of 
the information in the report was fairly generic  as a great deal of it was repeated verbatim 
in later recommendation letters and didnt relate specifically to Mr W. And I think, in the 
circumstances, additional information and analysis ought to have been included to ensure 
that Mr W was in an informed position. 
Again, the suitability report didnt include any analysis of the viability of using the pension to 
purchase commercial premises  one of the apparent key motivators for Mr W considering a 
transfer. And ultimately whether this was in Mr Ws interests wasnt addressed.
Id have expected to see more in-depth analysis of this. First, Id have expected some 
information to have been recorded about the potential cost to establish if this was even 
viable. Id also have expected to see some evidence of Succession asking Mr and Mrs W if 
theyd made any enquiries about this with the prospective seller, to see if the property was to 
be made available. 
With the apparent intention being that this asset would be held by the SIPP, if this went 
ahead, it wouldve formed a key part of the investment of the pension and impacted the 
returns that would be provided. Succession said, in the recommendation that it felt returns of 
9% per year were likely unachievable. And this wouldnt anyway have matched the critical 
yield  Mr W wouldve needed to exceed this level of return, every year. 
It seems unlikely, given that context, that the returns a SIPP would provide, with the 
commercial premises as the core investment, wouldve reached those levels. So, Id have 
also expected to see analysis of the return this might provide to the pension fund and what 
that might mean for the level of income that the pension could provide in retirement. With a 
comparison to what the DB scheme provided. And Id also have expected to see some 
analysis about whether this being the investment vehicle was in line with Mr Ws attitude to 
risk.
Without this having been addressed in any great detail, and with this being one of core 
objective Mr W hoped to achieve, I dont think he was in a position to make a fully informed decision about transferring.
Im also not sure that Mr W was in a position to decide to proceed against this advice or that 
he truly was an insistent client.
Mr W says he doesnt remember drafting this letter or proceeding on an insistent basis and 
says he was simply provided a lot of paperwork by Succession to sign and complete. The 
advice obviously was given a number of years ago and memories can and do fade. But the 
letter Mr W signed indicating he wanted to proceed, dated 8 April 2009, wasnt handwritten. 
It was typed. The contents and wording of the letter also, in my view, appear to be presented 
in a manner similar to the advice. And reflect someone with a good understanding of pension 
transfers. But I dont think Mr W was an experienced investor.
Im also conscious that evidence Ive seen indicates that the adviser began researching the 
pension fund that he ultimately recommended to Mr W on 30 March 2009. A couple of days 
after the advice was given but over a week before Mr W indicated, via the letter Ive 
mentioned, that he had any intention of not accepting that advice. The timing of that 
research, in the circumstances, appears odd. 
Taking this into account, I think it seems likely that the idea of potentially disregarding 
Successions advice was put forward prior to the letter in question being signed and likely at 
the time of the initial recommendation not to transfer  as otherwise I see no reason why the 
relevant research wouldve been undertaken at that time. If this was put forward by Mr W, Id 
have expected Succession to recommend that he take additional time to consider its written 
recommendation. In which case Id have expected it to await further instruction before 
undertaking research. But, as it didnt do this and immediately began researching a fund to 
recommend, I cant rule out that this was put forward by Succession  potentially 
undermining the advice itself. 
I also think the wording of the letter which resulted in Mr W being treated as an insistent 
client suggests that the adviser assisted with its drafting. And at the very least suggests that 
Succession facilitated Mr W proceeding as an insistent client. Im not sure therefore it truly 
reflects that Mr W had taken an informed decision to proceed on an insistent basis. And as 
Ive said, I think there was important analysis omitted from the recommendation  around the 
viability of the apparent long term investment aim. So, I dont think Mr W was in a position to 
make an informed decision to proceed on an insistent basis. 
Would Mr W have acted differently?
While I think there were failings in the advice process by Succession, I have to consider 
whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway as an insistent client, if clearer advice had been 
provided.
As Ive noted, Mr W did sign a letter indicating that he wanted to proceed with a transfer. But 
the primary basis explained in the letter for doing so was Mr Ws apparent thoughts on the 
future use of a SIPP to purchase a property being more beneficial than what was being 
given up. But again, notwithstanding that Im not sure this did truly reflect Mr Ws thoughts, 
no analysis had been undertaken by Succession to give Mr W any real context to form that 
opinion. So, I dont think Succession did enough to address this.
If this had been properly addressed, with clearer context given about the likely levels of 
return this would provide, that this was still likely to fall short of the critical yield  which 
Succession said it felt was unachievable  and the monetary impact this would have on 
Mr Ws income in retirement, Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme, against Successions advice. I say this because Mr W was again, in my view an inexperienced investor. And although he was recorded as having a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk, this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. And, as Ive explained, appears to have been best suited to meet his retirement 
income needs.
I acknowledge that Mr W proceeded to draw tax-free cash, several months after the transfer. 
And indicated the purpose of doing so was to repay some business debts. But at the time of 
the advice to transfer, no such debts were noted. So, I dont think this was necessarily a 
motivation for seeking the transfer advice. And I dont think this wouldve meant he would 
always have sought to transfer.
So, if Succession had provided him with clearer advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, and not facilitated the insistent client 
process in the way that it did, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
As a result, I said I thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and that Succession should 
compensate him using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology, on the basis that hed have likely taken benefits under the DB scheme around 
age 56. This was because while, Mr W took some benefits from his pension, specifically tax-
free cash, shortly after the transfer, at the time of the transfer there was no recorded need 
for accessing these benefits. So, I didnt think hed have begun drawing benefits immediately 
(at age 50). And when the tax-free cash was subsequently drawn, several months after the 
transfer, Ive seen no evidence that alternatives were explored. Rather tax-free cash seems 
to have been accessed because the transfer had taken place. And I didnt think Mr W 
wouldve accessed pension benefits at that time from his DB scheme.
By the time of the advice in 2015 though, it was recorded that Mr W had begun drawing 
benefits from his pension. The information at that time recorded that Mr and Mrs W were still 
working and receiving a salary. But had begun taking a pension income to support their 
desired lifestyle. It was also noted that they lived within their means and didnt have any 
disposable income, even with this supplemental income. So, I thought it was likely, had 
Mr W remained in the DB scheme, hed have sought to access his benefits around this time, 
at which point he was 56.
With regards to the concerns the representative had expressed on behalf of Mr W about the 
suitability of investments following the transfer and the 2015 advice, I said:
Mr Ws representatives have said that the recommended investments in 2009 and 
subsequently in 2015, were too high risk for him and not suitable. As I intend to uphold the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the subsequent investment 
recommendation. This is because, If Succession had acted correctly in 2009, I think Mr W 
would have remained in his DB scheme. So, none of the subsequent investments would 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given. And the regulators defined benefit redress 
methodology will account for this.
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Neither Succession or Mr W provided any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided anything further for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised above, based 
on the available information and evidence, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests. I dont think Succession did enough to explain why this was to Mr W. So, in my 
view, he wasnt in a position to make an informed decision about this or whether he wished 
to proceed as an insistent client.  And if clearer advice had been provided, I dont think hed 
have gone ahead with the transfer. So, I think Succession should compensate Mr W, in line 
with the regulators defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Succession must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For the reasons Ive already explained, I think it would be fair for redress to be based on 
Mr W having begun taking benefits from the DB scheme at age 56, his age at the time of the 
advice in 2015.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Succession should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Successions offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Succession 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Succession Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Succession Financial Management Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Succession Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman