DRN-2407030
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs refusal to give her the refund she has 
requested.
What happened
Mrs K has a credit card account with Barclays. In 2019 Mrs K decided to stay in a hospital. 
She tells us this was so she could have a rest after recently being ill. She also tells us she 
agreed with the hospital in advance that it would charge her £605 per night for a four night 
stay. 
However, when Mrs K arrived at the hospital, much to her surprise she suggests, it wanted 
to pre-authorise her credit card with a payment of £3,500. Mrs K objected to this on the 
grounds that this was not the amount she says she had been told she would be charged. 
Moreover, Mrs K suggests the hospital also told her that although it was pre-authorising her 
card with the £3,500 this money would not be taken from her account straightaway, rather it 
was a reserve. But, she later found out that her credit card account was debited with the 
£3,500 on her admission to the hospital. Moreover, Mrs K suggests that initially her hospital 
admission documents showed she was to be charged £3,000 but this was subsequently 
changed to £3,500.
Further, Mrs K complains about the standard of service she received in the hospital. In 
particular, amongst other things, she suggests that her room was too hot, as result she says 
she got heat rash. Moreover, when she asked for a specific medication for the heat rash it 
was not available. In addition, Mrs K complains she did not get the hot meal she ordered on 
one occasion and instead was given a sandwich. In any event, in general, she found the 
food that the hospital served to be inedible. 
Mrs K considers that she was asked to pay for unnecessary medical tests. Also, she 
suggests that an inappropriate consultant was assigned to her. 
For all of these reasons although she intended to stay four nights Mrs K left early and only 
stayed for three nights.
Mrs K complained to the hospital. It followed its complaint process which included an 
adjudication. As a result of this Mrs K was offered the following redress. If Mrs K had been 
charged £605 per night she would have paid £1,815 for her stay (3 x £605 = £1,815). The 
hospital refunded her £1,685 (£3,500 - £1,815 = £1,685). Mrs Ks stance is that the hospital 
refunded this amount as it agreed it had overcharged her. Moreover, it paid for the 
consultants fees itself as Mrs K did not pay them. It offered to refund the cost of the medical 
tests (£424.39). Mrs K tells us she has not received the £424.39.  She was awarded £250 for 
distress and inconvenience arising from her complaint. Mrs K complains about the hospitals 
complaint handling. 
Dissatisfied with the hospitals response, Mrs K turned to Barclays for help. In coming to 
Barclays Mrs K is relying on the rights she believes she has under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). She suggests she has these rights because she 
used her credit card to pay the hospital.  she wants it to refund the remaining £1,815.  While 
her complaint was ongoing, Barclays continued to pursue Mrs K to make payments to her 
account in relation to the payment she made to the hospital. Mrs K suggests that Barclays 
has acted inappropriately, she considers it ought not to have behaved in this way when she 
was in the midst of this complaint,
Barclays declined Mrs K s request for a refund. Barclays stance is that Mrs K has already 
received an appropriate refund from the hospital, so it is unnecessary to offer her anything 
more. Moreover, it suggests it was entitled to pursue her for payment.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response Mrs K came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. He concluded that he had no proper 
basis for recommending that Barclays refund the £1,815. Neither did he agree that Barclays 
had acted incorrectly in seeking to recover payment from Mrs K.
It appears that Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, but, Mrs K did not. In 
rejecting his recommendation Mrs K reiterated and expanded upon the points she had made 
previously. Mrs K asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs K relies on Section 75 and Barclays agrees she does have rights under this provision. 
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation and or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against 
the credit provider.
Before I go any further, I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a 
complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that 
a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ks 
complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is 
relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach 
the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs K pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Mrs K suggests her contract with the hospital was both misrepresented to her and breached. 
If I found that Mrs Ks contract had most likely been misrepresented and or breached, I 
would find it fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to take responsibility to put it right. Ill look at 
the misrepresentation part of Mrs Ks complaint first and then go on to look at what she says 
about breach of contract.
In this context, misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that the consumer relied on 
when entering into the contract. Mrs K tells us that the hospital conceded that it did mislead 
her about what it was going to charge, and she relied on this. But I dont agree with her. I say 
this because, the information I have seen from the hospital and from the adjudication of the complaint does not suggest this is so. Mrs K did get a refund from the hospital of £1,685 but 
nowhere have I seen where the hospital or the adjudication suggests that this was because 
the hospital misrepresented the cost of Mrs Ks stay. Rather the hospital talks about there 
being confusion on this point, and that in part, is why it is giving the refund. I find it unlikely, 
in the circumstances, that the hospital would have contracted with Mrs K to pay one price 
and then would have gone back on what it agreed and try to charge her something else.
It is not clear why the documents that the hospital gave Mrs K at first indicated the cost was 
£3,000 and then £3,500. This does suggest that as the hospital says there was some 
confusion around costs. But this by itself does not satisfy me that the hospital gave Mrs K 
false information in advance about what it was going to charge her for her stay.
Further, Mrs K suggests that she was assured that her credit card account would not be 
debited with the £3,500 immediately but it was. However, it seems likely that this was the 
hospitals standard practice so why it would have told Mrs K that it was going to deviate from 
its normal approach in this particular instance is unclear. I am not satisfied in the 
circumstances, that it did tell Mrs K this.
Mrs K suggests that she was unaware when booking that the consultants fees would be 
charged separately. Rather she suggests that she was told something quite different. That 
said, the hospitals stance seems to be that although this could and should have been better 
explained at the time, it does not accept Mrs Ks version of events. In any event, it agreed to 
meet the consultants costs as a goodwill gesture, so it does not appear that Mrs K is out of 
pocket as a result. I think it is likely there was a degree of confusion around this issue and 
the explanation could have been better. But, given that it appears from the information I have 
seen from the hospital that it is its standard practice for consultant fees to be charged 
separately in these circumstances I am not persuaded that Mrs K was told specifically that 
the consultant fees would be included in the overall fee as she suggests.
On balance, for all of these reasons, I find it unlikely that the contract was misrepresented to 
Mrs K. It follows I have no proper basis for asking Barclays to do anything further in relation 
to this part of Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K suggests that one price was agreed for her stay i.e. £605 per night but she was 
charged something else. Mrs K considers that the £605 per night agreement was a specific 
term of the contract she had with the hospital, but I have already found that I am not 
persuaded that this was the agreement. It follows there was most likely no breach of contract 
because, the hospital chose to charge her more than this.
Mrs K points to other parts of her stay that she considers to be breaches of contract. Mrs K 
is correct when she says she was entitled to expect that the services provided by the 
hospital should have been delivered with reasonable skill and care. However, the hospital 
has accepted that the hospital was hot, and she found this uncomfortable despite its 
attempts to make her more comfortable (iced water and fans in her room). It also apologised 
because the food displeased her. However, part of the refund of £1,685 was to make up for 
this, the hospital refers to these issues as difficulties. I think she has already therefore had 
reasonable redress for what went wrong.
If the hospital had not supplied Mrs K with an appropriate clinician that could have been a 
breach of contract. The choice and allocation of a consultant however, is a clinical decision. 
Mrs K suggests the consultant was not appropriate, but I do not have sufficient information 
from an expert about her medical condition and the specialism of the consultant for me to 
make any finding about this. Moreover, Mrs K has not been charged for the services of the 
consultant, so it is hard to see what loss she made, even if I found, which I do not, that this 
was a breach of contract.
Mrs K suggests that the medical tests were inappropriate. This again could have been a 
breach of contract. In so far as, if wholly inappropriate tests were carried out this would 
mean the service had not been delivered with reasonable skill and care. The hospital sees things differently. In that it seems from the information I have seen that it did not agree that 
the tests were unnecessary.  I could only fairly and reasonably find that the hospital had 
breached the contract here if I could be satisfied that the tests were not clinically appropriate. 
Again, I have not got sufficient expert information about this point to enable me to make any 
finding on this point.  Even, if I found this was a breach of contract, which I do not, I would 
only be able to ask Barclays to put things right if Mrs K had not already had a refund. The 
hospital agreed to refund £424.39 for the pathology tests. Mrs K says she has not had this 
refund. But we were unable to get confirmation from the hospital about this point. 
For all of these reasons I find I have no appropriate grounds tor saying that the contract was 
breached and therefore Barclays has to take responsibility for this.
Moreover, I cannot see that it would be right to say that a full refund of the balance should be 
made, which is what Mrs K asks for - that would wrongly imply that no service at all had 
been received. When in fact even going by Mrs Ks account of events she did receive 
service. Albeit, she was not satisfied with it.
I am aware that Mrs K is unhappy about how the hospital went about looking at her 
complaint. But this is neither a misrepresentation nor a breach of contract so Ive no power 
to look at this part of the complaint.
It is clear that Mrs K is also unhappy that Barclays continued to try to recover from her the 
money she had spent on her hospital visit. But just because Mrs K raised her complaint with 
Barclays does not mean that it is or was obliged to stop pursuing her for payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman