DRN-2959695
The complaint
Mr S complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) registered a default against his name.
What happened
A default was registered by Arrow in Mr S name on 1 December 2015 on debt A. It had 
been purchased from another lender by Arrow in September 2014. The balance is £797.15. 
There were two other debts  B and C.
Mr S complained. He had no recollection of the debt. So, the default wasnt correct. Hed 
asked Arrow for documentation to prove he owed them this money, but they couldnt. Hed 
been asking Arrow for information for a long time, and this had taken up a lot of his time. 
This had caused him stress. He couldnt get credit. And, a company for which he was a 
director also couldnt obtain a loan.
In January 2021, Arrow said they couldnt provide any information or credit agreement for 
debt A, but considered that the debt remained enforceable, even if not through the courts. 
And therefore, the default should remain. The defaults registered for debts B and C had now 
dropped off due to the time since they were advised to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Theyd wrongly advised Mr S that debt A was being managed by a debt collection agency, 
when it wasnt. They apologised for the delay in getting details of the debts to Mr S and paid 
compensation of £75 for that.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Arrow had provided some 
screenshots which suggested that correspondence had been sent to Mr S over the years. 
And that a payment to the account for £10 had been made in 2016.  But other than that, 
Arrow couldnt provide enough evidence to confirm the debt existed. Arrow had paid £75 for 
the delays in providing the detail of the debts, and that was fair. But otherwise, Arrow should 
write off the debt and remove any entries from Mr S credit file. And pay £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S aid he thought that more compensation was warranted, given the time and hassle hes 
suffered  and he couldnt get credit. Arrow said they were confident that Mr S did live at the 
address on file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrow say they consider the debt of £797.15 is enforceable  but also admitted in their final 
response that a court couldnt do so. Theyve said they cant produce the credit agreement, 
statements, default notices of letters relating to debt A. Theyve shown us screenshots which 
suggest some letters were sent, and that a payment of £10 into the account was made in 
2016  but thats all. The debt was bought by Arrow from another lender in September 2014. 
The default was registered in December 2015. Initially, they told Mr S that the debt was 
being managed by a DCA, but that proved wrong. They told us that theyre confident that Mr 
S does live at the address on their file  but that doesnt support their case at all.  So  it 
looks to me that whether or not the debt does exist, the documents have been lost in the 
transfer when the debt was bought by Arrow. So  Im persuaded that Arrow must write off 
the outstanding debt, and remove the entries relating to it from Mr S credit file.
Our investigator recommended compensation of £100. Arrow have paid £75  for the delays 
in providing the documents for the debts. So, I must consider whether £100 is enough for the 
distress and inconvenience to Mr S. He says hes been unable to get credit because of the 
default. And, I can see hes spent a lot of time corresponding with Arrow over what 
happened to try to sort things out. But equally, hes benefitting from the write off of a debt of 
£797.15, and the cleansing of his credit file. And, so, on balance, I think the compensation of 
£100 is right for what happened here.
Putting things right
 Arrow must pay compensation of £100 to Mr S  in addition to the £75 already paid. And 
write off the balance of £797.15 on debt A, and remove the entries from his credit file in 
connection with it.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  Arrow Global Limited must:
Write off the debt of £797.15
Remove any entries from Mr S credit file in relation to this debt
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr S  this in addition to the £75 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman