DRN-1521604
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his breakdown repair policy.   
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his breakdown repair cover policy after he broke down. Acromas 
recovered him to his garage but turned down his claim for the repair of his car. This was 
because Mr M had broken down for a similar problem a few months earlier, but he didnt get 
his car permanently repaired.
Mr M complained to Acromas. He said the patrol man didnt tell him the car wasnt fully 
repaired when he broke down a few months earlier. And had he have done so he wouldve 
taken his car for repair at that point in time. But as Acromas wouldnt change its view Mr M 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought the 
paperwork, which Mr M signed electronically and received a copy of, made it clear that a full 
repair hadnt been undertaken and that he would have to get his car checked at a garage. 
And as Mr M didnt get his car checked out he didnt think Acromas had acted unreasonably.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why Mr M is so frustrated and believes his claim should be met. He says 
the patrol man needed to spell out what he needed to do, and he shouldve told him he 
needed to get his car checked over at a garage. And he says that the patrol man left him 
with the impression that the car was fully repaired when the car broke down the first time, so 
he didnt think he needed to do anything further. 
But a breakdown recovery driver doesnt have the expertise or the equipment to be 
as precise as a garage as any repair is undertaken at the roadside. I know Mr M suggests he 
was told he didnt need to do anything further but that isnt what the paperwork he signed 
electronically says. It says that any Diagnostic testing may be limited in a breakdown type 
situation and that a customer must ensure any symptoms/suggested fault are confirmed 
by your chosen repairer. 
So, the strongest piece of evidence I have in front of me (the engineers report from the time 
of the first breakdown) says that any roadside repair is primarily intended to be emergency 
breakdown assistance and you should not assume that any repairs undertaken by AA 
patrols/agents will be carried out to the standard expected from engineers working in fully equipped workshop premises. In these circumstances, you MUST ensure your vehicle is 
properly checked by an appropriate repairer after you reach the end of your journey. And 
importantly the report makes it clear that Acromas cannot accept any responsibility for any 
loss or damage incurred as a result of any reliance on the temporary repair following the end 
of this journey.
As such, I cant say that Acromas has done anything wrong when it turned down Mr Ms 
claim after the second breakdown. I know Mr M says he was left with the impression from 
the patrol man that the repair was permanent. But the only piece of independent evidence 
suggests otherwise and says that Mr M needed to get his car checked by a garage. And as 
Mr M didnt do this I dont think I can fairly ask Acromas to pay his claim for damage to the 
same area of the car when it had been driven for six months without being fully repaired. So, 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman