DRN-3786719
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the delays he experienced with Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(HSDL) during the transfer of his cash ISA held with another provider to his HSDL stocks 
and shares ISA.  
What happened
In July 2021 Mr M initiated a transfer of his cash ISA to HSDL from another platform which I 
shall refer to a Company B in this decision. 
Mr M experienced delays during the transfer. It wasnt completed until 30 September and Mr 
M has said that HSDL didnt take enough action to resolve the issue earlier and reduce the 
loss he had suffered as a result. 
HSDL spoke with Mr M and issued its final response to his complaint on 4 October 2021. It 
outlined the actions it had taken when sending the ISA request transfer form and 
subsequently chasing for its completion. But it accepted that it was partly responsible for the 
delays in the transfer of his ISA and offered £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M had been caused. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that what HSDL had 
offered to put the matter right was fair. He didnt think that HSDL needed to take any further 
action.
Mr M disagreed. He said;
HSDL had sent its acceptance and transfer request to Company B on 21 July 2021 
but it wasnt completed until 30 September 2021 which was outside of the HMRC 
guidelines of 15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs and 30 calendar days 
for other types of transfer. 
HSDL had completed a similar transaction for Mr M a month before so it had all the 
information that was needed. 
He had lost the opportunity to invest  the funds already held within his HSDL stocks 
and shares ISA were invested. 
There was no justification for the delays, and it had been agreed that the service 
provided fell short of the standards expected. He thought the £150 compensation 
was HSDLs standard compensation for distress and inconvenience and it looked like 
a compensation cap on the limit offered and it didnt take account of the time value of 
money. 
No-one had explained what was happening during the transfer or what actions were 
being taken. 
Our investigator responded. He;
accepted that Mr M must have been frustrated by the lack of communication and 
HSDL had agreed it had contributed to the delays in the transfer. 
And while HSDL may have completed a similar transfer previously, this transfer 
would have required all the information to have been reconfirmed. 
He wasnt aware of any compensation cap and thought the offer was broadly fair and 
reasonable and in line with what the Financial Ombudsman would recommend. 
There wasnt anything to show that Mr M had suffered a financial loss because of the 
delay so wouldnt be looking at the time value of money point. 
Mr M didnt agree and made some further points which didnt change the investigators mind. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDL has accepted that it had contributed to the delays in the transfer. It has provided a 
timeline of events to Mr M and it has agreed it fell short of the service standards that Mr M 
should have expected, hence the offer of £150 for the distress and inconvenience that had 
been caused. 
In response to his complaint HSDL outlined the timing of its action and attempts to contact 
Company B to initiate and chase for the ISA transfer to complete. So, I dont propose to re-
visit what happened as this has all been addressed by the business already and Mr M is now 
aware of what happened and the actions that HSDL took. And, as I have said above, HSDL 
has accepted its part in this. So, I will mostly be considering how the delays Mr M 
experienced should being remedied. 
Mr M has said that the outcome to his complaint as proposed by the investigator didnt 
consider the terms of the contract clause that limits the maximum time for banks to complete 
the transfer. But its accepted by HSDL that it did contribute to the delays Mr M experienced 
during the transfer, so I think this has already been take into consideration in the offer being 
made.
Mr M has said that he lost the opportunity to invest and referred to the fact that the money he 
already held within his ISA with HSDL was invested which I take to mean that Mr M would 
have done the same with the cash being transferred. He has also referred to the time value 
of money and that the amount being offered by HSDL should be increased because of that. 
I take the latter point to mean that if Mr M had received the cash in his ISA sooner then it 
would have generated some sort of return such being invested and any subsequent gains 
because of that. 
Mr M has said that by him not having access to his funds is proof of a financial loss. But in 
cases such as these, I have to carefully consider whether a financial loss has been suffered. 
To conclude that it has, I need to be persuaded that Mr M would have done something with 
his money if it had been received sooner  specific trades but for HSDLs actions as an 
example. But Mr M hasnt provided me with anything particular to show what trades he 
would have carried out if he had received the funds sooner.
Its not possible to know what action, if any, Mr M would have taken during the time the 
transfer of the cash was delayed. And without being reasonably sure what Mr M would have 
done its difficult for me to conclude that Mr M is due any compensation for potential losses 
suffered. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr M tried, or would have tried, to trade  and which would have resulted in a financial gain  during this time and no loss has been 
demonstrated. 
Mr M has referred to distress and inconvenience payment examples given on the Financial 
Ombudsmans website and commented on other cases in what he considers are similar 
circumstances to his case and have been awarded higher levels of redress. However, every 
case is different. And each case is considered on its own particular merits and in the 
individual circumstances of that complaint.
I do think Mr M should receive a payment for the considerable frustration he has been 
caused during the transfer process. Ive carefully considered Mr Ms points and I am aware 
he feels strongly about this. But I have also borne in mind our long-standing approach to 
awards for distress caused. Taking all of the above into account, I think the £150 already 
offered is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. It is now for him to decide whether 
to accept the offer already made by Halifax Share Dealing Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman