DRN-4370433
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) irresponsibly gave him a credit card account 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr M applied for and was granted a credit card account with MBNA with 
a credit limit of £3,200. 
Shortly after the card was granted, Mr M used most of the available credit by way of a 
balance transfer. 
In June 2018 the credit limit was reduced to £1,400 at Mr Ms request. Mr M repaid all the 
outstanding balance by August 2018 and then closed the account.
Mr M  has complained to MBNA to say that he shouldnt have been given the account 
and that MBNA ought to have made a better effort to understand his financial 
circumstances.
Our adjudicator at first didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. But after Mr M provided 
some further information about his financial circumstances, our adjudicator decided to 
uphold the complaint. 
In my provisional decision dated 7 September 2023, I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Essentially, whilst I thought MBNA could have carried out better 
checks before agreeing the lending, based on what Id seen I wasnt able to make a finding 
that MBNA had acted unfairly by agreeing to grant credit that might be unaffordable for Mr 
M. I set out an extract below:
Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Mr Ms complaint is that MBNA provided him with a level of credit that was unaffordable 
given his other existing credit commitments. MBNA has explained it carried out checks that 
included using a credit reference agency to work out of credit it was able to offer. It also 
relied on the information Mr M had provided in his application for the card. This included 
details about his income, showing he received a gross annual income of £40,000  which 
means he had a net monthly income of around £2,500. 
From the credit check it carried out, MBNA would also have been aware that Mr M already 
owed a significant amount of credit, being around £20,000 owed by way of credit cards and 
another £5,500 owing by way of loans. The credit checks MBNA carried out showed Mr M 
had a good credit history with no recent missed payments or adverse records on his credit 
file. I know that Mr M disputes this but I think MBNA was entitled to rely on the credit 
reference agency data it obtained at the time. 
I agree with our adjudicator that MBNA could have carried out better checks before granting 
the credit, such as asking Mr M to provide details about his daily living costs and any other 
committed expenditure. I think in doing so MBNA would have been acting proportionately by 
seeking to gain a more thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances before 
agreeing to open the account. I say this given the level of debt MBNA knew about plus the 
credit limit it was granting. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
I think it would have been proportionate for MBNA to have taken better steps to verify Mr Ms 
financial circumstances. I see our adjudicator asked Mr M for some further details and 
evidence about his financial circumstances. In response Mr M provided his credit report, 
evidence of what he owed on credit cards and loans and also two bank statements  from 
August and December 2016. I see our adjudicator asked Mr M to also provided bank 
statements for November 2016 and January 2017, but Mr M said he couldnt obtain those. I 
think it would also have been helpful to see the bank statement for October 2016. The aim of 
making this request was to help us understand what, if anything, MBNA might have found 
out  had it completed better and more and proportionate checks. 
The bank statement evidence Ive seen shows that Mr M was making regular use of his bank 
overdraft facility  to the extent that his monthly pay wasnt enough to bring his account into 
credit. Whilst regular reliance on an overdraft is a concern that MBNA would have been 
aware of had it carried out better checks, it doesnt automatically follow that regular use of an 
overdraft facility is in itself enough to suggest that any further new credit was likely to be 
unaffordable. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, and taking into account what I already know about Mrs Ms 
financial situation at the time, including his existing debt commitments, I am not able to make 
a finding as to whether or not MBNA made a fair lending decision. So it follows that I also 
cant reasonably conclude that MBNA ought to have known the card might be unaffordable 
for him and that there was a risk of a deterioration in his existing financial position. 
Im therefore not currently persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly in approving this card 
together with the credit limit it granted.
Mr M is unhappy with my provisional findings and is particularly concerned that I might not 
have seen all the documentation he provided to our adjudicator. He has sent in various 
copies of credit and loan statements to ensure that I have all the relevant information 
available to me. 
MBNA said it had nothing to add to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.In my provisional decision I said that I hadnt so far seen enough evidence or information 
to make a finding as to whether MBNA had made a fair lending decision. I fully 
understand Mr Ms concerns, having seen my provisional decision, that we hadnt seen 
all the relevant information and I am grateful to him for taking the trouble to again send 
through details about the loans and credit he had at the time. Having looked through 
them, I would like to assure Mr M that from what Ive seen, this information was for the 
most part the same as that which had been on the file prior to me issuing my provisional 
decision. 
Mr M has expressed concern about the credit check MBNA carried out before it approved 
his account and granted him his opening credit limit. MBNA used one of the main credit 
reference agencies when carrying out its check. In doing so, and as I said in my 
provisional decision, MBNA was entitled to rely on the results that search provided. The 
nature of the credit check process means that its sometimes possible that the information 
shown in a search requested from one agency wont be the same as that shown in a 
credit search carried out by a different agency. This is why the search MBNA relied on 
may not have included all of the cards and loans Mr M held at the time. I should say that 
whilst a different credit bureau may possibly have shown different information, it may still 
not have shown the full level of Mr Ms credit commitments. 
In my provisional decision I said that given the level of credit that MBNA was aware of 
from its search that Mr M was holding it would have been proportionate for it to carry out 
better checks before granting the credit. But the bank statement information Ive seen 
doesnt suggest to me that had MBNA carried out further checks, it would necessarily 
have been apparent that Mr Ms level of debt commitment was higher than the credit 
check it carried out had shown. So I am unable to make a finding that had MBNA taken 
steps to find out more about Mr Ms financial situation it would have decided not to 
provide him with the opening credit. 
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr M. I say this being very much 
aware of the understandable concern he has had about whether all the information on the 
file was provided to me and what my findings were based on. I do regret that on this 
particular occasion I am unable to help Mr M any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman