DRN-3713906
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account. Hed like a refund and compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
What happened
Mr S has an account with Monzo.
On 21 March 2022 a payment of £2,705 was made from Mr Ss account to an electronics 
store in London. This payment was made via a digital payment method Ill call A, and 
required biometric fingerprint or face identification approval. 
Soon after the payment was made Mr S received a notification from Monzo to advise the 
payment had been processed. Mr S logged on to his Monzo app to freeze his card and 
contact them to raise a dispute. 
Mr S explained he received a text message on 19 March 2022 to advise that his card had 
been successfully set up on A. But at the time he hadnt realised it was a problem. So didnt 
contact Monzo to query it. 
Mr S also advised Monzo he hadnt received any suspicious calls or text messages and 
hadnt disclosed his card details or PIN to anyone. 
Monzo reviewed Mr Ss claim but concluded that hed authorised the payment. Mr S 
complained but following a review Monzo thought theyd acted fairly in declining his claim. In 
summary they couldnt find a compromise for Mr Ss card details and concluded hed most 
likely authorised the transaction
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint, but they didnt uphold it. Having 
looked at the evidence they explained it showed to add a card to a new device biometric 
authorisation was required in the Monzo app. For this reason they thought Mr S most likely 
authorised the payment. 
Mr S didnt agree, in response he said:
How could he have carried out the payment when he wasnt anywhere near the 
location?
Hes disappointed that a full police investigation hasnt been carried out, and CCTV 
hasnt been obtained from the store. 
As Mr S didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card details and 
biometric authorisation were used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr S consented to the transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr S
authorised the transaction. I say this because:
To carry out the fraudulent transaction a fraudster would have needed to add Mr Ss 
digital card to their device. To do this the fraudster would firstly need Mr Ss long card 
details. But, Mr S has explained he hasnt shared these details with anyone  or 
received any suspicious calls or text messages attempting to gather these details. 
To add new card details to A, Monzo require approval in the app. Ive looked at the 
online audit trail provided by Monzo, and I can see that this was accessed at 7:02 pm 
on 19 March 2022 where the addition of the card to A was approved. Mr S has 
explained that he didnt approve this. However, Im satisfied the approval was made 
using Mr Ss device and via biometrics.
The payment made was authenticated using biometrics  Ive not seen a plausible 
explanation for how this could have occurred without Mr Ss knowledge. 
Two days prior to the disputed transaction Mr S received a text message advising 
him that A had been successfully set up. Mr S has explained that at the time he 
wasnt concerned by the message  and therefore didnt contact Monzo. However Id 
have expected Mr S to contact Monzo to explain he hadnt set up his card on A if this 
was the case. 
Mr S raised a number of points in response to our investigators view. These include that he 
wasnt near the location of the payment at the time  and CCTV hasnt been obtained. I 
understand Mr Ss arguments here, but he didnt need to carry out the payment himself for 
Monzo to hold him liable. If a third party carried it out with his consent then Mr S has 
authorised the payment according to the relevant regulations. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think on balance Mr S authorised the payment and I 
wont be asking Monzo to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman