DRN-3666732
The complaint
Mr S complains that ICICI Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from what he says was 
an investment scam.
What happened
Between October 2017 and March 2018, Mr S began making payments to a merchant for 
binary options trading. He made around fourteen transactions on his debit card totalling 
around £5,400. 
In April 2021 Mr S contacted ICICI to make a chargeback claim. He said he was the victim of 
a scam and wanted ICICI to refund him. ICICI considered the claim but said it wouldnt offer 
Mr S a refund. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
the merchant was operating a scam and that he had been unable to withdraw his funds. He 
said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had banned the sale and marketing of binary 
options and that ICICI shouldve done more to stop the payments he made because he 
wasnt allowed to make international payments on his debit card. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the merchant was 
regulated with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) at the time Mr S 
made the payments and there was no adverse information Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) or the FCAs website. She 
didnt think the payments to the merchant were sufficiently suspicious that ICICI shouldve 
stopped them and spoken to Mr S about them. 
The investigator said that Mr S was out of time to raise a chargeback on the payments he 
made under the rules set by the card provider. But she noted that ICICI had refunded some 
of the payments Mr S queried because he said a message was displayed at the time which 
said they hadnt gone through, on the day he made them in 2018. But that didnt mean Mr S 
was entitled to the remaining payments he hadnt raised in 2017 and 2018 and which were 
now out of time. The investigator added that she didnt think ICICI had treated Mr S unfairly 
here so no compensation was warranted in this instance. 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he shouldnt have been 
allowed to make an international payment on his debit card and that the merchant is only 
registered for CFD trading and mislead him into thinking it was a binary options trader. He 
said he didnt receive any warnings from ICICI about scams when he made the payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr S has highlighted) to 
be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But these are 
predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must be whether 
the merchant was operating a scam as Mr S alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
 
Ive reviewed the IOSCO, FCA and the ASIC websites. There are no warnings about the 
merchant and the ASIC website confirms that the merchant is regulated and registered in 
Australia. This evidence doesnt persuade me that the merchant was more than likely 
operating a scam at the time Mr S made the payments in 2017 and 2018. If the merchant 
was operating a scam at the time, I wouldnt expect it to be regulated by ASIC. 
Ive seen from Mr Ss comments that he is unhappy with the trading experience he was 
offered by the merchant and that he has said the merchant is only regulated for CFD trading 
 not binary options. However, Mr Ss comments persuade me that its unlikely a regulated 
CFD trader would operate a binary options scam. The services being offered may have been 
high risk and I accept Mr Ss testimony that its likely there were some questionable sales 
and marketing techniques. But that doesnt in itself mean the merchant were operating a 
scam.
Ive read Mr Ss detailed evidence to this service about how ICICI shouldve done more here. 
But, although I understand the various points Mr S has raised about this issue and what he 
considers were failings on ICICIs part, I cant consider whether his transactions were 
unusual or uncharacteristic unless first of all Im satisfied that this was actually a scam  
rather than a poorly executed high risk investment. And although banks have obligations to 
be alert to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to 
provide investment advice. 
Given the strength of feeling Mr S has shown that he was the victim of a scam, I think its 
worth mentioning here that even if I did think the merchant were operating a scam (to be 
clear I dont), Mr S made the payments over a period of months and they ranged from £50 to 
£730. I dont think the payments to the merchant were suspicious or unusual compared to 
his account spending. And the sale of Binary Options wasnt banned by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) until July 2018 and by the FCA in the UK until 
2019. Both of these were after Mr S made the payments to the merchant here. So, I dont 
think there was any reason for ICICI to do more to stop the payments. 
Mr S says the ICICI website says international debit card payments arent allowed. But ICICI 
has provided a copy of the debit card terms and conditions and these dont say that Mr S is 
unable to make an international payment with his debit card. And the information Ive seen 
shows that Mr S can make international payments. 
Chargeback and refunds from ICICI
In January and February 2018 Mr S contacted ICICI to claim a few of the transactions he 
made to the merchant back. The notes at the time say that the reason Mr S wanted these to 
be returned was because when he made the payments, he was displayed a message which 
said they hadnt gone through. But when the money was debited from his account, he 
wanted the money returned to him which is what ICICI did. I cant see that Mr S raised a 
query of a chargeback about the remaining payments to the merchant at the time. And it 
wasnt until April 2021 that Mr S decided to attempt to raise a chargeback for the remaining 
payments. 
ICICI has told this service that Mr S raised the chargeback for the remaining payments out of 
time so it cant do anything more. The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card 
scheme whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer 
if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to 
the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed 
or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme 
rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. ICICI) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr S. 
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
ICICI to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. 
And not raising a chargeback in time is one scenario where I think a claim would be unlikely 
to succeed. The relevant time limits here are for any transactions Mr S made before 14 
October 2017, he had 120 days to raise a claim to ICICI. And for any transactions after 14 
October 2017 he had 120 days from the date he expected to receive the merchandise or 
services  and up to 540 days from the date of the original transaction. And because the 
claim wasnt raised with ICICI until April 2021 then Im satisfied ICICI has fairly said Mr S 
was out of time to raise a chargeback on the remaining transactions he made to the 
merchant between October 2017 and March 2018. 
ICICI handling of the claim
Mr S is unhappy with the time it took ICICI to investigate and handle this issue. I can see he 
raised his claim in late April 2018 and when ICICI told him it couldnt offer him a refund in 
June 2021 a complaint was made in July 2021. ICICI issued a final response letter in early 
September 2021. 
I understand why Mr S was frustrated with the time it took to investigate his claim and the 
complaint. Its not uncommon for investigations into a scam claim to take time to review. And 
I dont think ICICI unnecessarily or unfairly delayed its investigation into Mr Ss claim. So, I 
dont think he was treated unfairly or that ICICI should pay him any compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S said he has suffered. 
So, Im not going to ask ICICI to do anything more here. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman