DRN-2113897
The complaint
Mrs I complains that her ceiling suffered water damaged because Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt properly investigate a fault with her boiler.
What happened
Mrs I had a boiler protection policy with D&G. She reported a loss of pressure in her boiler 
and a leak which was evident because of a damp patch on the floor. D&G put the pressure 
back to what it shouldve been but said the damp floor was caused by condensation on the 
outside of the pipes.
Mrs I noticed the damp was coming through to the ceiling below and a month later she 
complained to D&G. Mrs I felt that the engineer hadnt properly investigated the leak and 
drop in pressure and, because of that, the leak continued and damaged her ceiling. She felt 
that D&G was responsible for the damage and wanted it to cover the repairs.
D&G offered another visit to look at the boiler again, but Mrs I was reluctant. D&G explained 
that a visit was necessary to find where the leak was coming from and it provided the referral 
details for Mrs I to arrange an appointment directly with the engineer.
Two days later, D&G attended Mrs Is home again. The engineer diagnosed the fault with a 
pipe, which was the same as the original engineers report. D&G confirmed the leak wasnt 
covered under the policy, but Mrs I was unhappy with its decision.
  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was any evidence to 
support Mrs Is claim that D&G hadnt investigated the leak properly. She also thought that 
because the leak had been left untreated for a month, it wasnt fair to hold D&G responsible 
for the subsequent damage.
Mrs I didnt agree. She said that the engineer wasnt at her home long enough to carry out a 
thorough investigation, and she still thinks her ceiling was damaged because of D&Gs 
failure to identify the leak.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mrs I had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The key issue here is that Mrs I thinks the first engineer didnt investigate the leak and boiler 
pressure fault properly. So, she thinks its responsible for the subsequent water damage to 
the ceiling.
Ive looked at the policy to see what Mrs I was covered for, specifically in relation to her 
claim. The policy insures against boiler and controls breakdown and protects the system. 
Within the policy, the boiler is defined as,
 
the gas boiler protected by this policy, as shown on your certificate (this only 
includes the parts inside the boiler casing)
The system is defined as, 
the radiators, radiator valves, expansion tank, the accessible and visible pipework 
directly associated with the provision of central heating (excluding any taps and their 
direct supply) ...
Within the general exclusions, the policy states it does not provide cover for:
General exclusions
 damage to any other property or possessions, unless it is our fault;
 cosmetic damage such as damage to paintwork, dents or scratches;
And within the special exclusions, the policy states:
Work on anything not part of the heating equipment, for example warm air units, 
electric boiler or combined heat power units, non-accessible or nonvisible pipework, 
energy management systems, unvented pressurised cylinders (thermal stores) fuel 
lines to the heating equipment and the flue systems from the heating equipment, the 
cold water supply tank, its feed or outlet, taps, any pipework
I understand that Mrs I doesnt think the engineer completed a thorough inspection. I can 
see that the engineer visited on the day she reported the leak and pressure problem. While 
Mrs I says the engineer was only in her home for five minutes, his report suggests that he 
did what he was there for  he reinstated the boiler pressure and looked for evidence of a 
leak. The engineer stated that there was no evidence of a leak from the boiler and the 
nearby pipework was wet due to condensation. Its not clear what Mrs I thought the engineer 
shouldve done differently at that appointment, but I cant see anything here which causes 
me to think the work done was insufficient.
Mrs I contacted D&G after the engineer left to say there was still a leak. It advised her to call 
the engineer, who had provided her with a mobile number, so he could attend again that 
day. D&G also said if there were any problems getting in touch with him to let it know. Ive 
listened to the calls and Im satisfied that D&Gs response to that initial complaint was 
reasonable. However, Mrs I confirmed in a later call that she didnt try to get in touch with the 
engineer. 
Mrs I called D&G again about the leak a month later. The water had damaged her ceiling by 
that point, and she thought it should cover the repairs. D&G declined because of Mrs Is 
delay in reporting and because the source of the leak was thought to be from pipes not 
covered under her policy.
Looking at the overall circumstances, I think D&Gs response was fair. When Mrs I first 
reported a problem with the boiler pressure, she didnt want a visit and asked D&G to 
consider just paying out. It explained that it needed to inspect the boiler and provided Mrs I 
with contact details to arrange the appointment to suit her. She didnt act on the advice D&G 
gave. Two weeks later she reported that there was also a leak and on that day she arranged an 
appointment with an engineer. After he had left, Mrs I complained to D&G and it provided 
advice  to get back in touch with the engineer. Again, she didnt follow its advice. 
A month further on, and Mrs I reported that there was damage to her ceiling which she thinks 
D&G is responsible for because the engineer didnt fix the leak. However, she didnt contact 
D&G during that month and the water damage got worse.
I can understand that Mrs I mightve been reluctant to let engineers into her home because 
of health fears. But I dont think its at all fair to hold D&G responsible for damage caused by 
a leak it was unaware of and, as appears to be the case, not covered under Mrs Is policy.
An engineer who attended after Mrs Is complaint diagnosed a fault identical to that 
diagnosed originally. The engineers felt that the leak was coming from hidden pipework. As 
D&G has provided two inspection outcomes and Mrs I hasnt provided anything to the 
contrary, I have no reason to doubt that there were no visible signs of a leak. As mentioned 
before, the policy excludes cover for hidden pipework, indicating the leak, if it were coming 
from hidden pipes, wasnt covered under the policy.
In summary, D&G attended to fix the boiler pressure and attend to a reported leak. Whether 
or not D&G carried out a thorough inspection, I dont think its fair to hold it responsible for 
the subsequent water damage to Mrs Is ceiling. Thats because Mrs I didnt act on D&Gs 
advice to call the engineer back the same day, and she delayed reporting the leak again for 
a month until her ceiling was damaged to a greater extent than it need have been. So, she 
didnt give D&G an opportunity to reinspect until after the damage happened. 
I also think D&Gs actions are a secondary issue, and thats because the hidden pipe which 
may have been the source of the leak wasnt covered under her policy anyway.  So Mrs I 
would always have needed to get her own engineer in to repair the leak and subsequent 
damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman