DRN-3616165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about a mortgage application booking fee charged by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. Mr S, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, believes it is unfair for HSBC 
to charge an application fee for one part of the mortgage after theyd arranged a fee-free 
product for the main part of the loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with HSBC taken out in 2017 which was split into two 
sub-accounts. The main account was for approximately £157,000 and the other was a 
homeowner loan of £25,000. Both were on a capital repayment basis and a fixed rate 
product of 1.59% which was due to expire on 31 December 2022.
In November 2021, concerned about possible increases in the Bank of England Base Rate, 
Mr and Mrs S decided to re-arrange their mortgage products onto lower rates. Whilst they 
knew theyd have an early repayment charge, they thought this would be offset by having a 
lower interest rate over a longer period. Initially they were looking at two rates  1.04% and 
£1.19%, both fixed for five years. 
Mr S queried with HSBC why the rates were different. HSBC explained that the lower rate 
had a booking fee of £999 but there was no booking fee payable on the higher rate. Mr S 
asked whether the booking fee was payable for each loan part and was told that there would 
be only one fee payable if the same product was chosen.
As Mr and Mrs S were thinking about their options, the Bank of England increased interest 
rates again and so the available rates were 1.19% with a £999 fee or 1.34% with no fee. 
Mr and Mrs S decided to go ahead and re-arrange their mortgage online. They didnt want to 
pay any fees upfront, so they applied for the main mortgage on the 1.34% rate (which had 
no booking fee) on 9 November 2021. Mr and Mrs S selected the lower 1.19% rate for the 
homeowner loan, and paid the £999 booking fee for this. 
The following day Mr S contacted HSBC to ask for a refund of the £999 booking fee. Mr S 
told HSBC that he had arranged for one fee to be added to the mortgage (the 1.34% rate) 
and paid the other upfront. As hed been told hed only have to pay one booking fee, Mr S 
wanted the £999 refunded. HSBC explained that he had spoken to someone at the bank 
before hed arranged the rate who told him he would need to pick the same product for both 
parts and pay two fees, and then one would be refunded. However, Mr S had chosen two 
separate products, one with no fee and one with a fee, and so no refund was due.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response Mr and Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, because 
Mr and Mrs S had taken out two separate products and so there was no refund of the fee.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr S has explained that he 
thought by taking out the product which had no upfront fee, any product fee would have 
been included in the mortgage, and interest charged on it over the five-year fixed-rate 
period. Based on this, he thought that by taking one product which has fees inbuilt and one 
with an upfront fee, he would receive a refund of one fee. So when he went ahead an 
applied for the two different types of products, he was never advised that he couldnt take 
two different products if he wanted a fee refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
Im satisfied that HSBC explained that the higher interest rate came without a fee. I can see 
that Mr S has interpreted this to mean that he thought the product fee was incorporated into 
the mortgage product, but that is not the case; there was no fee on the 1.34% product. 
HSBCs policy is that where a customer chooses the same new product on sub-accounts 
where separate booking fees are paid, only one fee will be charged and any other product 
fees will be refunded. But thats not what happened here; Mr and Mrs S chose one product 
that had no fee, and one product that had a fee. Therefore no refund is due.
No advice was given by HSBC about the product switch because Mr and Mrs S chose their 
new interest rates online. Im satisfied the information provided about the circumstances in 
which a fee refund was due was correct. 
Its unfortunate that Mr S misinterpreted and misunderstood what hed been told and 
incorrectly assumed that the fee-free product had a built-in fee that had been added to the 
product. But its clear from the product information that this interest rate had no fees applied 
to it. In order for a fee refund to apply, it would have been necessary for Mr and Mrs S to 
have chosen the same mortgage interest rate product for both parts of their mortgage and 
paid two booking fees upfront. 
As Mr and Mrs S chose one product that was fee-free and one that had a £999 fee, there is 
no refund due to them of the £999 booking fee they paid for the second interest rate product 
they chose.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman