DRN-2429429
The complaint
 Mr B complains about the service he received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc when 
he tried to change his address.
What happened
 Mr B held a credit card with RBS. In November 2018 he notified RBS by telephone that hed 
moved to a new property and he asked it to update his address.
RBS informed Mr B that he couldnt change his address over the telephone. It explained that 
hed have to write in instead. This was because he hadnt attended a branch in order to 
request the change and he hadnt been able to confirm the CVV numbers from the reverse 
of his credit card when he called.
Mr B wrote to RBS on 18 December 2018 provide his new address. He asked RBS to send 
all future correspondence to his new address and explained that hed misplaced his credit 
card. But he didnt sign this letter. 
On 24 December 2018, RBS responded to Mr Bs correspondence confirming that it was 
aware he wanted it to change his address. But it stated it needed more information from him 
before it could update his address. And it asked him to contact it by telephone to progress 
matters.
Mr B sent further correspondence to RBS on 3 January and 23 February 2019 to request 
that it change his address. But, again, these letters were unsigned. He also contacted RBS 
by telephone to ask it to change his address. 
But RBS didnt update Mr Bs address and it sent a replacement credit card, correspondence 
and statements to his previous address. So, he said his account security was breached. And 
he said, because he didnt receive credit card statements, he wasnt able to settle his 
account balance, which caused him to incur interest.
On, 4 May 2020, Mr B complained to RBS about how it had dealt with his request to update 
his address. And he explained that he wanted it to refund all the interest hed been charged 
since November 2018. 
RBS investigated Mr Bs concerns and issued its final response to his complaint on 6 May 
2020. In its final response letter, RBS explained why it hadnt been able to change his 
address when it was first made aware hed moved house. And it said it hadnt been able to 
locate records of telephone calls in which hed asked it to change his address. But it 
accepted what Mr B had said about making further requests by telephone. And it agreed it 
had made an error in not updating his address sooner. 
To recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr B had been caused by its error, RBS paid 
Mr B £100 compensation. But it refused to waive the interest Mr B had incurred as it said he 
was aware there was an outstanding balance on his account and had made minimum 
monthly payments during the time he hadnt received statements.
Mr B was unhappy with the compensation amount RBS had paid him. So, he referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator empathised with Mr B and recommended 
upholding his complaint. They werent persuaded RBS had acted fairly and didnt think the 
compensation it had paid Mr B was fair and reasonable. So, they recommended it pay an 
additional £100. But Mr B disagreed with our investigators view of his complaint and asked 
to appeal. Ive therefore been passed his complaint to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced as a result of what happened. My 
role is to assess whether I think RBS made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right. 
Id like to thank both Mr B and RBS for the level of detail contained within their submissions. 
Ive considered all the information provided when reaching my decision. But, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mr B or RBS have made, it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, an approach that 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
The first issue Ive considered is whether RBS acted fairly in how it dealt with Mr Bs request 
to change his address.
RBS has explained that it couldnt accept Mr Bs verbal instructions to update his address in 
November 2018. Its said this is because if a customer is unable to provide the CVV 
numbers on the reverse of their card or attend a branch, its policy prevents it from effecting 
an address change. 
I know this caused inconvenience to Mr B but I think RBS approach here was reasonable in 
the interests of account security. Having seen its policy on address changes, Im satisfied it 
adhered to that policy when it was first contacted by Mr B.
As RBS received unsigned letters from Mr B, I cant fairly criticise it for declining to act on 
that correspondence. It had no way of knowing whether Mr B had written these letters 
because there was no signature for it to verify. I therefore dont think it acted unreasonably in 
asking Mr B to contact it by telephone. And I can see it informed him in clear terms that it 
hadnt updated his address pending further contact by him.
Mr B said he telephoned RBS by telephone afterwards. But RBS hasnt been able to locate 
records confirming that. I can see, however, that its accepted what Mr B has said about 
contacting it. And I think that was a fair approach for it to take in the absence of records 
evidencing what had happened.
I understand that Mr Bs address was updated on 4 May 2020. This was the same day he 
complained to RBS by telephone. As RBS has accepted Mr B contacted it by telephone prior 
to this date I think there were missed opportunities for it to change his address. And Im 
therefore satisfied Mr Bs address could have been updated sooner  during earlier calls.
Putting things right Ill turn now to how Mr B was impacted by RBS not updating his address sooner. Its clear 
that his experience here went beyond mere irritation. He was caused distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. So, Im satisfied a compensation award is warranted.
As Ive already explained, RBS paid Mr B £100 compensation to resolve his complaint. But 
our investigator recommended it increase that amount to £200. Mr B doesnt think this sum 
adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. Ive therefore assessed 
whether the level of compensation our investigator recommended appropriately recognises 
the trouble and upset he was caused. And, having carefully considered what he and RBS 
have said, Im satisfied the £200 recommended by our investigator is fair. Ill explain why.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
I can understand how Mr B would have been concerned to learn that confidential information 
about his account, including correspondence, statements and a replacement credit card, 
were posted to his previous address. RBS has confirmed that it has treated this as a breach 
of data protection legislation. And I think it was right to approach this matter in that way. 
I can see Mr B remains upset that correspondence relating to his account was sent to his 
previous address and Ive taken on board his feelings about this. But hell need to approach 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) should he wish to pursue issues relating to data 
protection breaches further. The ICO is better placed than this service to look at an 
organisations handling of personal data because its not our role to decide whether a breach 
of data protection has taken place. So, our service wont make a finding on this issue as it 
falls outside our jurisdiction.  
I recognise Mr Bs concerns that his credit card could have been subject to unauthorised use 
by a third party receiving correspondence about his account. But when our service considers 
complaints, we look at what actually happened  not hypothetical and speculative situations. 
With that in mind, Ive thought about what happened here.
RBS has confirmed Mr Bs replacement credit card was posted to his previous address on 3 
April 2020. And I can see from his statements that the last purchase recorded was on 16 
December 2018. Mr B hasnt disputed making that purchase. So, Im satisfied there was no 
fraudulent activity on his account. Mr B therefore hasnt incurred any financial loss. 
I can see Mr B has complained that hes suffered financial loss because RBS wont waive 
the interest he incurred during the period he was trying to change his address. Ive therefore 
considered whether RBS acted fairly in applying interest to his account balance.
RBS has provided our service with copies of Mr Bs statements, which explain clearly how 
much interest hed be charged if he didnt pay the full account balance. Mr B has told our 
service he was intending to clear his credit card balance in November 2018. 
I recognise there was period during which Mr B didnt receive statements as they were 
posted to his previous address. But Im not persuaded RBS failure to change his address 
sooner prevented him paying his account balance. I say this because his statements show 
he was making payments to his account each month. And Im satisfied he ought to have 
been aware he had a balance outstanding from previous statements that he had received. 
If Mr B had wanted to pay more towards his account balance, Im persuaded hed have been 
able to do so by increasing the payment he was making each month. Im also satisfied the interest he was charged was applied in line with the terms and conditions of his account. Im 
therefore not going to tell RBS to waive the interest it charged here.
Mr B told our service he spent a considerable amount of time over the telephone trying to 
update his address. RBS hasnt been able to locate any call recordings. So, I cant see how 
long Mr B spent on the telephone contacting RBS. I dont doubt, however, what hes said 
though about the length of each call he made. I appreciate that this has taken up a lot of his 
time. 
I recognise that Mr B may have incurred out of pocket expenses in telephoning RBS about 
his change of address. But I havent seen any evidence of telephone expenses. Im therefore 
satisfied the compensation recommended by our investigator adequately recognises any 
telephone expenses Mr B might have incurred here.
I dont doubt how inconvenient all of this was for Mr B. But, in the overall circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that an additional £100 is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr B would have been caused here. I 
havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted. And Im 
persuaded that the amount recommended by our investigator is in line with our approach in 
similar scenarios  its also in keeping with what Id have told RBS to pay. So, I wont be 
directing it to pay any more
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with this decision. But this now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve his dispute with RBS informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr B further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay 
Mr B an additional £100 to resolve this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman