DRN-2908097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
has handled a claim Mr B made on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) - which formed part 
of their home insurance policy. 
Although Mr and Mrs B are named as policyholders, Ill refer to Mr B throughout as the claim 
made on the LEI policy relates to a breach of contract that he was party to.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B entered into a settlement agreement with his then employer. Subject to 
Mr B complying with his obligations under the settlement agreement, his then employer 
agreed to make a termination payment to Mr B at the end of April 2020. 
The termination payment wasnt made as Mr Bs then employer alleged that Mr B hadnt 
complied with his obligations under the settlement agreement. 
In July 2020, Mr B contacted DAS to make a claim under the LEI policy for legal 
representation in a claim against his former employer for the termination payment. 
Shortly thereafter, DAS appointed one its preferred law firms (the law firm) to consider the 
prospects of Mr B succeeding in a claim against his former employer and, if they were at 
51% or above, to represent him in that dispute. 
The law firm advised Mr B that his claim did enjoy reasonable prospects of success and it 
wrote a letter before action to his former employer in October 2020. Thereafter, further 
communications were exchanged between Mr Bs former employer and the law firm. In 
December 2020, Mr Bs former employer offered half of the termination payment in full and 
final settlement of any legal action. 
The law firm reviewed Mr Bs case and advised that the prospects of Mr Bs case were 
below 51% and under the LEI policy, cover wouldnt continue. Mr B was advised to accept 
his former employers offer and was informed of other options available to him, including 
being able to fund his case privately or represent himself if he wanted to continue with his 
case.
Mr B accepted his former employers offer and payment was subsequently made. Mr B then 
raised a complaint to the law firm  which DAS was made of aware of - concerned about the 
way in which he had been represented by the law firm and the advice received. 
The law firm investigated his concerns and accepted that it couldve done better. It 
concluded that it took too long to initially assess the merits of him succeeding in his case and 
it apologised for this. The law firm also said it had erroneously advised Mr B at the outset 
that his claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, when it shouldnt have. However, it 
concluded that as Mr B had the benefit of legal representation for several months, it didnt 
think he had been negatively impacted by initially being advised that the prospects of his 
claim succeeding were at 51% or above.
DAS endorsed the conclusions of the law firm and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as against 
it. DAS confirmed that it wouldnt be offering Mr B the other half of the termination payment 
that he didnt receive from his former employer as it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr B raised a complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. As they disagree, this complaint has been passed to me to 
look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr B will be very disappointed but hopefully, hell 
understand my reasons when I explain why. 
I want to begin by confirming that although I have considered, in detail, everything the 
parties have provided to me, Ive focused on what I consider to be the most relevant issues. I 
mean no discourtesy to the parties by doing so. 
The way in which the LEI claim was handled by DAS
Under the terms of the LEI, DAS is entitled to appoint one of its preferred law firms to assess 
the merits of Mr B succeeding in his claim and, if he had more chance of succeeding in that 
claim than not throughout the duration of the case, representing him in that action (subject to 
the remaining policy terms). 
Its common for LEI policies to include a term like this and generally we dont think that sort 
of clause is unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a 
claim that isnt likely to succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to 
start, or continue with, legal action. 
Mr B is very unhappy with the legal representation he received from the law firm; he says it 
provided a poor and fraudulent service. Hes also concerned with the legal advice he 
received.
Our Service cant consider complaints about the general legal advice or service given by a 
law firm; theyre not under DAS control. They are independent professionals with their own 
regulator and complaints procedures. 
Our Service can only consider whether DAS did anything wrong in the way it handled the 
insurance claim. That includes whether the advice given to Mr B by the law firm was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that DAS shouldve reasonably 
questioned it. I dont think thats the case here. 
From what Ive seen Im satisfied that DAS wasnt made immediately aware that the advice 
Mr B received the law firm had changed in early December 2020 and that hed been advised 
that his claim no longer enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. And nor was it aware that 
the advice had changed at the time Mr B accepted his former employers offer to pay half of 
the termination payment set out in the settlement agreement. All this had taken place before 
DAS was notified of Mr Bs dissatisfaction with the turn of events. 
Once DAS (as opposed to the law firm) became aware of Mr Bs concerns, Im satisfied that 
it acted reasonably by allowing the law firm an opportunity to investigate and respond to Mr Bs concerns through the law firms own internal complaints procedures. After all the law firm 
had day to day conduct of Mr Bs legal claim. His concerns were about the way in which the 
law firm had handled his case and the advice it had given. And when Mr B wasnt happy with 
the outcome, I dont think DAS then acted unreasonably by arranging for the concerns and 
outcome to those concerns to be reviewed by another senior member of staff at the law firm. 
Further, I dont think DAS unreasonably relied on the review undertaken by that senior 
member of staff at the law firm when endorsing the outcome. Nor did it act unreasonably by 
confirming that if the law firm advised that the prospects of Mr B succeeding in his claim 
against his former employer had fallen below 51%, the law firm had been correct in telling Mr 
B that the claim would no longer be covered under the terms of the policy. 
I think it was reasonable of DAS to rely on the advice of the law firm when doing so. After all, 
the law firm are the legal professionals and are best placed to advice on prospects of 
success in light of all the relevant information and its legal expertise.
Suitably qualified representation 
DAS is required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Mr B under the LEI. 
Looking at the areas in which the law firm practice, Im satisfied that it did have the required 
experience to represent Mr B in his claim. 
I can see that the advice confirming that Mr Bs claim no longer enjoyed prospects of 
success was provided by a Paralegal. But Im satisfied they wouldve received appropriate 
supervision. The laws firms investigation into Mr Bs complaint confirms that the Paralegals 
work was supervised by an Associate at the law firm and Ive got no reason to doubt that 
was true. Ive also seen evidence that the Associate had reviewed certain correspondence 
before it was sent by the Paralegal, supporting that they were being supervised.  Looking at 
the Associates experience, Im persuaded they had the required expertise.
Further, as part of the investigation into Mr Bs complaint, a Partner in the law firm and Head 
of Litigation and Dispute Management confirmed that the Paralegals contractual analysis 
was correct, and his case didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Appointing another law firm to represent Mr B
Subject to the remaining terms, the LEI does provide for Mr B being able to choose a legal 
representative that isnt nominated by DAS. However, the terms say thats only if the panel 
firm cant negotiate settlement of the claim and its necessary to go to court and legal 
proceedings are issued. Or if theres a conflict of interest.
So, even if Mr B had requested at the outset that he be represented by a law firm of his 
choice, I dont think DAS wouldve initially agreed to this based on the terms of the LEI; not 
until negotiations had been exhausted and it became necessary to start legal proceedings. 
I dont agree that there is an inherent conflict of interest between the law firm and DAS. 
Theyre both independent from each other to the extent that theyre subject to different rules 
and regulations, regulators and Ombudsman schemes. If Mr B has any further concerns 
about the relationship between DAS and the law firm, hes free to raise this with the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Further, there was no obligation (contractual or otherwise) for DAS to consider appointing 
another legal representative to represent Mr B after it became aware that Mr Bs case with 
his former employer had settled. And I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for it to do so 
here. DAS didnt become aware that the assessment on prospects had changed until after the 
former employers offer was accepted by Mr B. So, under the terms of the LEI policy, even if 
the case hadnt settled, its unlikely that there wouldve been any cover under the policy 
based on the law firms legal advice. But in any event the case had settled so there wasnt a 
dispute to be covered anymore under the terms of the policy.
When thinking about whether DAS acted fairly and reasonably here, Ive also thought about 
whether DAS shouldve given Mr B the option of obtaining a second legal opinion on 
prospects of success. When an insurer confirms cover has been withdrawn under a LEI 
policy because prospects are less than (or have fallen below) 51%, there are some 
circumstances where our Service might consider it fair and reasonable for the insurer to 
inform the policyholder that it would consider a favourable second independent legal opinion 
on prospects of success if obtained by the policyholder, initially at their own cost.
However, Im not persuaded DAS was required to do so here. Thats because it hadnt been 
aware of the change in advice of prospects before Mr B agreed to the settlement offer by his 
former employer. So, it never formally withdrew cover under the policy. Further, by the time it 
was aware of the change in assessment on prospects, the case had settled. So, even if Mr B 
had obtained a more favourable opinion on prospects thereafter, there was no outstanding 
dispute between Mr B and his former employer to be covered under the terms of the policy. 
Ive also considered that the LEI policy does make provision for DAS to pay the reasonable 
value of the claim, instead of starting or continuing with legal action. However, thats a 
commercial decision for DAS given the value of the claim weighed against the likely costs 
involved in continuing with a legal action. I dont think DAS acted reasonably by not making 
any offer to pay the value of the claim to Mr B at the outset of his claim. Particularly as the 
law firm were only engaged in pre-action correspondence with his former employer by the 
time it concluded that Mr Bs claim no longer enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and 
his case promptly settled. 
Other issues
Mr B is also unhappy with the way in which DAS dealt with a data subject access request 
(DSAR). However, this isnt something that had occurred prior to DAS issuing its final 
response letter dated early February 2021 so it isnt a concern that was raised as part of the 
complaint Ive been asked to determine. The DSAR was made in March 2021 and Mr B told 
our investigator that hed raised concerns with DAS about the way in which it handled the 
DSAR in early July 2021. If Mr B remains unhappy about the way in which DAS dealt with 
the DSAR, and he hasnt done so already, hes free to raise a separate complaint with DAS 
about this issue in the first instance.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman