DRN-3787721
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the settlement of her home insurance claim by Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva) following an escape of water. During the course of events, Mrs B has raised 
several concerns about Avivas handling of her claim and many of these concerns have 
already been considered and resolved under two separate complaint references at our 
service. It has been agreed that under this third complaint reference, only the following 
matters will be considered in this decision:
the repair and/or replacement of Mrs Bs sofa;
the repair and/or replacement of Mrs Bs bathroom vanity basin cabinet;
Avivas decision not to accept the damage to Mrs Bs front door as part of her claim.
Mrs B is being represented by Mr G, a loss assessor  but for ease of reading Ill only refer 
to Mrs B in the decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so, noting the circumstances of 
the claim were set out in two previous complaints at this service, I wont repeat all those 
details again here. But to briefly summarise, damage was caused to Mrs Bs property 
following a leak on her central heating system in 2019/20. This included damage to her sofa 
and bathroom vanity basin cabinet. And more recently (in 2022), Mrs B complains about 
problems opening and closing her front door, which she believes to be caused by the damp 
conditions following the escape of water in 2019/20.
Aviva accepted the recommendations of the investigator who looked into Mrs Bs previous 
complaints about the claim settlement  as did Mrs B. Importantly, the recommendations 
specifically included Aviva reinstating the sofa to its pre-damaged condition. The investigator 
said the following:
Mrs B has specifically mentioned to Aviva that the sofa specialists said the lounge cannot 
be cleaned or repaired and will need to be replaced But the sofa restoration experts who 
Aviva asked to inspect the sofa told Aviva it can be repaired. Because of this disparity in 
evidence, I think this aspect should be singled out and Aviva should not seek to cash settle 
this aspect of the claim. If the sofa cannot be reinstated then Aviva will need to pay for its 
replacement as per the terms of the policy. Mrs B should send Aviva confirmation of the 
purchase costs or if thats not available due to the length of time she has had it for she will 
need to send Aviva a quote from the retailer/manufacturer confirming how much it would 
cost to replace the sofa with one of a similar specification.
But if Mrs B changes her mind and no longer wants Avivas contractor to attempt a repair, 
Aviva should pay Mrs B the amount it would have paid the restoration specialist under the 
contents claim settlement.
Mrs B is now worried that the process of reinstating the sofa may include the use of 
materials to which she is allergic. So, she now seeks either a guarantee that she wont suffer 
an allergic reaction or Aviva to pay for its replacement and she has provided a quote from a 
retailer with the cost a replacement sofa of a similar specification. Mrs B is also unhappy that 
Aviva intends to reinstate a vanity basin cabinet and not replace her whole bathroom suite 
as a matching set.  Finally, Mrs B complains the moisture levels within her property that 
resulted from the escape of water and remained whilst the claim had been ongoing, has 
caused problems to her front door, making it difficult to open and close.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by another of this services investigators. In summary, 
they were satisfied Aviva had acted fairly by offering to reinstate both Mrs Bs sofa and 
vanity cabinet. And they were persuaded by Avivas surveyors finding that the dominant 
cause of the problems with Mrs Bs front door as unlikely to have been due to the leak from 
her heating system.
As the investigator did not think her complaint should be upheld and Mrs B did not agree, the 
matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more than likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Having done all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
My starting point is Mrs Bs home insurance policy. This says that, when settling Mrs Bs 
claim, it is for Aviva (and not Mrs B) to decide whether to replace or repair the damage. I 
dont think theres anything unreasonable about that in principle, since Aviva is the one 
paying for the claim. But Mrs Bs home insurance policy is whats called a contract of 
indemnity. This means, when it settles the claim, Aviva must  as closely as possible  put 
Mrs B back in the position she was in just before the escape of water. So, Id expect to see 
Aviva make a settlement that does that and for Aviva to act fairly and reasonably in reaching 
its settlement decision. And if Aviva is to settle part of Mrs Bs claim by reinstating Mrs Bs 
sofa and vanity cabinet, Id expect any repairs to be effective and lasting.
Aviva intends to repair Mrs Bs vanity cabinet, making use of any undamaged doors and 
drawers so it continues to match her bathroom suite. Aviva also says it and its leather 
specialist are entirely confident that a satisfactory reinstatement of her sofa can be achieved. 
I cant ignore that Mrs B previously agreed to reinstatement of her sofa when accepting our 
investigators recommendations. Ive carefully considered Mrs Bs concerns about her 
allergies. But Ive not seen evidence to suggest the reinstatement of Mrs Bs sofa presents a 
greater risk of her experiencing an allergic reaction, when compared to the manufacture of a 
replacement from scratch. Indeed, noting Mrs Bs policy includes matching sets cover and 
the potential for the replacement of her entire suite, the manufacture of a replacement suite 
 by sheer volume  may pose the greater risk. Either way, I dont find it reasonable to tell 
Aviva to do something different on the premise of something which may not happen  and in 
the circumstances where neither option can guarantee Mrs B wont experience an allergic 
reaction. In the circumstance, I think such a guarantee would be a step too far. 
As the investigator pointed out, Mrs B has the option of settling for a cash sum equal to the 
costs Aviva expects to pay for the reinstatement of her sofa. But, as it stands, she doesnt 
have the choice of the replacement she now wants. I cannot choose for her and that is 
something she must decide. 
If Mrs B is still unhappy after Aviva has completed the reinstatement works, she is free to 
make a fresh complaint if need be. So, I wont comment further, other than to say it is 
unlikely we would consider Mrs B experiencing an allergic reaction  in isolation  as 
evidence of an unsatisfactory repair.Overall, I find Aviva choosing to reinstate both Mrs Bs sofa and vanity cabinet a fair 
settlement of the claim, and in keeping with the policy terms. 
The final matter Mrs B has referred is Avivas decision not to accept damage to her front 
door as part of this escape of water claim. Mrs B did not tell Aviva about the problem with the 
opening and closing of her front door until early 2022, around two years after she reported 
the leak from her central heating system. Aviva points to the front doors exposure to all 
weather conditions and it believes the problems would have presented long before they did, 
should the dominant cause have been the escape of water from the central heating system.
I note that Mrs B did claim back the cost of a dehumidifier that she purchased around the 
time of loss in early 2020. Ive seen that Aviva has allowed for the cost of replacement of 
three first-floor internal doors in its schedule of restoration works dated July 2020, but the 
internal doors on the ground floor didnt need replacing. I also note the absence of further 
drying out works or costs for dehumidifier provision within the schedule. And I can see from 
Avivas records that moisture level readings were taken around February 2020 and these 
showed the property as dry.
So given Avivas surveyor found damage to the first-floor internal doors but not to those on 
the ground floor; and as they would have needed to enter and leave through Mrs Bs front 
door, I think it more likely than not that they would have found any issues with the front door 
had they existed at the time. In the absence of sufficient evidence showing the leak from 
Mrs Bs central heating system as the dominant cause of the problems with Mrs Bs front 
door, I cant fairly tell Aviva it needs to include the repair as part of this claim. 
In summary, I find Avivas decision not to accept damage to her front door as part of this 
escape of water claim a fair one. And so, I make no award or direction in respect of Mrs Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Mrs B should decide what she wants to 
accept as settlement to the claim for the reinstatement of the sofa and that she/her loss 
assessor should tell Aviva.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman