DRN-3387479
The complaint
Mrs G complains through her representative Mr W, about the service shes received from 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd. Shes unhappy with the lack of rebalancing of her portfolio 
and with errors made when processing quarterly income payments. To put things right shed 
like full compensation for the errors, any lost growth, the distress and inconvenience of 
dealing with the errors and also the cost of moving to a new adviser. For ease of reading Ill 
only refer to Mrs G.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go over them in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Quilter wrote to Mrs G in July 2020 and explained that theyd found discrepancies 
within the portfolio on her Elevate GIA for the 2019/20 tax year
Theyd found that the portfolio construction had been disrupted when a withdrawal 
had been processed on 1 May 2019 which resulted in the funds within the portfolio 
not being totally aligned to the portfolio design
The error wasnt fully rectified until 13 November 2019
They also explained that theyd made errors in selling investments from the portfolio 
to facilitate quarterly payments of £7,500 to Mrs G. They said that theyd made the 
payments in March and May 2020 instead of April and July 2020
They apologised and accepted liability for the errors and compared the performance 
of her portfolio between 30 April and 13 November 2019 to a model portfolio on FE 
Analytics - the FFP4 model. They found that the FFP4 model had performed better 
than her portfolio by 1.78% so they offered to pay her the difference
They also offered to compensate her for the error with the quarterly payments. They 
did this by using a benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Index - to 
calculate what her portfolio would have been worth if the money had remained 
invested instead of being sold early 
They also offered a payment of £400 for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused her and gave her referral rights to this service
There was a further error with the quarterly payment for October 2020  it was made 
in June instead of October (it was subsequently reinvested in September). Quilter 
offered Mrs G redress based on the method theyd used for the previous errors with 
the quarterly payments and also £150 for the further distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused
Mrs G referred her complaint to this service due to the ongoing errors. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who thought the complaint should be 
upheld and that redress should be calculated as follows  
oFor the errors regarding the portfolio construction she thought the 
performance of the portfolio should be compared to the performance of a 
benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index  
and compensation paid if applicable. 
oFor errors regarding the first two early withdrawals (quarterly payments for 
April and July 2020), Quilter should determine which funds were encashed 
early and how many units of each fund would have been sold to generate the 
payment of £7,500. They should then calculate how many units would have 
been sold if the funds had been sold down at the correct date. If it showed 
that Mrs G had been disadvantaged then Quilter should pay compensation of 
what the surplus units would have been worth at the date the funds were 
encashed when the GIA was closed (taking into account any redress 
payments already made)
oFor the error with the third early withdrawal (quarterly payment for October 
2020) she thought Quilter should determine which funds were encashed early 
to generate the £7,500 and compare this to the value those units would have 
had when the funds were reinvested. Mrs G should then be compensated if 
there was any difference between the two figures
oShe thought the amounts of £400 and £150 offered for distress and 
inconvenience caused were fair and reasonable
Mrs G partially agreed with the redress that had been suggested but she also thought 
that she should be compensated for fees shed incurred when shed moved her 
portfolio to another adviser due to Quilters many errors.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered the issue with the portfolio construction between April and November 
2019. Quilter have accepted that theyve made an error, so I dont need to make a finding 
about that particular point. Instead, my role is to consider if the offer of redress is fair and 
reasonable. 
Quilter have accepted that Mrs Gs portfolio wasnt set up correctly between 30 April and 13 
November 2019. In order to put things right, Quilter should try to put Mrs G as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if the portfolio had been set up correctly. The redress 
that has been proposed compares the performance of her portfolio over the period it wasnt 
set up correctly to the performance of a suitable benchmark over the same period. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and reasonable.
Ive then considered the issue with the quarterly payments that were made early. Again, 
Quilter have accepted that they were at fault, so Ive considered if the redress offered is fair 
and reasonable. The redress that has been proposed is to determine if the units that were 
encashed early would have been worth more if theyd remained invested until when they should have actually been sold. I think this method of redress is fair and reasonable as it 
ensures that Mrs G hasnt lost out on any potential growth she would have seen if the units 
hadnt been encashed early.
Ive also considered the compensation thats been offered for the distress and inconvenience 
that Mrs G has suffered. From what Ive seen Quilter have made a number of errors which 
have impacted Mrs G, including repeated errors with the quarterly payments. Taking 
everything into account, I think the payments of £400 and £150 which theyve offered as 
compensation are broadly in line with what I would have awarded, and I dont think any 
further award is required.
The main issue of disagreement seems to be around whether Quilter should compensate 
Mrs G for the fees shes incurred in moving away from them. I take the points she has made 
about the poor service shes received since Quilter took over the management of the 
portfolio and why this made it necessary for her to move away from them. 
While I can award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Quilters 
failings, I dont think this should extend to covering the costs of setting up accounts with a 
new provider. This isnt a cost Mrs G had to incur as a result of Quilters errors, instead it 
was a result of her choice to cut ties with them. And while I can understand her reasons for 
doing so, I dont think I can fairly ask Quilter to compensate her for this.
Putting things right
Redress for errors with portfolio construction
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs G as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs G's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mrs G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Quilter should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
If the redress calculation results in a figure less than the amount already paid out to 
Mrs G, no further redress will be payable
Portfolio Status Benchmark From ("start To ("end Additional name date") date") interest
General 
Investment 
AccountNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index30 April 
202013 
November 
20208% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs G's circumstances and risk attitude.
Redress for errors with the quarterly payments
The first two quarterly payments  March and May 2020
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Quilter must:
A - Determine the units that were encashed early to generate £7,500 on each of the 
first two occasions  26 March and 13 May 2020
B - Determine how many units would have been sold to generate £7,500 if processed 
on the correct date - 9 April 2020 and 9 July 2020
Compare A to B. If this shows that more units were sold because of the early 
encashment then Quilter should pay Mrs G the value that the surplus units would 
have had at the date when Mrs Gs General Investment Account was closed (less the 
redress payments already made)
The third quarterly payment  June 2020
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Quilter must:A - Determine the units that were encashed early to generate £7,500 on 29 June 
2020
B - Determine the value those units would have had when the funds were eventually 
reinvested 
Compare A to B. If this shows that the value of the units would have been higher 
when they were reinvested, then Quilter should pay Mrs G the difference in value 
(less the redress payments already made)
Quilter should also pay Mrs G £600 (£450 + £150) for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused her (if they havent done so already).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I think this complaint should be partially upheld. Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman