DRN-3544497
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) mishandled her
requests for payment holidays.
What happened
Mrs M had a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) account with Shop Direct. In October 2020, the 
limit was £6,700 and the balance was £5,712. On 3 November 2020, she called to say she 
wanted to reschedule her next payment as her partner was on furlough. Shop Direct 
agreed a payment break for two months. To be clear, this normally meant that no 
payments were needed, charges and interest were zero, and credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) were advised of the arrangement. Shop Direct debited interest of £252.44. CRAs 
were advised.
In February 2021, she asked for a payment holiday under the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) pandemic support scheme and this was agreed for three months. This 
meant that no payments were required; interest was charged, but there was no notification 
to credit reference agencies (CRAs). But it wasnt set up by Shop Direct. Ive referred to 
the scheme as a payment holiday but Shop Direct called it a payment freeze.
Mrs M complained. She was confused about what Shop Direct had done. She couldnt 
see why interest was being charged under the payment break and payment holiday; nor 
could she see why payments were required under the payment holiday after it ended. And 
she said that CRAs were notified of both the payment break and payment holiday. She 
said Shop Direct didnt honour call backs or respond to emails. The whole episode had 
caused her a lot of worry, confusion, and stress.
On the payment break (November 2020): Shop Direct said that when Mrs M called in 
November 2020, the payment holiday scheme wasnt available, and so couldnt be offered. 
So, they offered Mrs M a payment break for two months instead. They apologised for the 
lack of clarity given to Mrs M when she called in November 2020 and refunded interested 
of £252.44.
On the payment holiday, (February 2021), Shop Direct apologised and said that it had been 
agreed when Mrs M called in February 2021, but hadnt been set up properly. So, they set it 
up later, in April 2021. But payments that were suspended because of the payment holiday 
still had to be made up; and debit interest was payable as that was part of the scheme.
Because the payment holiday hadnt been set up when it shouldve been, Shop Direct paid 
compensation of £55. They also ensured that no markers were added to Mrs Ms credit file.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator focused on the payment holiday in 
February 2021; and said that overall, because of the confusion, Shop Direct should pay a 
further £120 compensation.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said Shop Direct should pay more 
compensation:
Its important here to understand the difference between a payment break  as put in 
place by Shop Direct in November 2020 and a payment holiday (called payment freeze 
by Shop Direct)  that they should have put in place in February 2021.
A payment break is used by firms where customers are in financial difficulty and are 
finding it hard to make payments. In line with FCA guidance, these schemes:
Charge zero interest and fees
Suspend monthly payments
Are notified to credit reference agencies
Payment holidays started in April 2020. They were announced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All 
lenders, including Shop Direct, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit 
agreements, including BNPLs  to help customers who were affected. Customers could 
ask for a total of two payment holidays, each of three months. Payment holidays:
Charged interest and fees. Where there was an interest free period, this 
was extended to run out at the end of the three-month period.
Monthly payments were suspended  but these started again after the end of 
the holiday.
Credit reference agencies were not notified.
In November 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme for BNPLs would 
start again from 19 November 2020. From then, firms could continue to support 
customers in difficulty  but it was down to their discretion and customers 
circumstances.
And so  Ive looked at Mrs Ms complaint in the light of this.
Payment Break  November 2020. Mrs M called Shop Direct on 3 November 2020. Ive 
listened to the call and Mrs M said she wanted to reschedule the next monthly payment as 
her partner was on furlough. She said she could make the payment but needed to change 
its date. She was offered a payment break for two months  which may have been 
appropriate. Mrs M didnt ask for a payment holiday  and given that it wasnt 
reintroduced until 19 November 2020  much later  I dont think we couldve expected 
Shop Direct to have suggested it. But normally in considering a payment break, we would 
expect a firm to undertake an assessment of income and expenditure  to ensure this was 
the right thing for Mrs M. But that didnt happen. And  unfortunately, the call was very 
unclear as to the terms of the payment break. In the conversation, the call hander 
mentioned once no payments and show on credit file  but we would expect the terms to 
be clearly read out and understanding checked on the call  and this didnt happen. The 
call handler also said there would be no charges (which Mrs M said she didnt want to pay) 
but also said once it wont stop interest  and this was wrong, as a payment break would 
normally be interest free  in line with FCA guidance. Also, I can see that Mrs Ms credit 
file was marked in November 2020 and December 2020 with the payment break.The call handler went onto say that the payment breaks terms would be sent to Mrs M  
but unfortunately, there wasnt an email or letter sent to her. If there had have been, her 
confusion may well have not arisen. Mrs M had spelt out to us the stress and worry that 
the confusion caused her  and it caused a knock-on effect to what later happened, in 
February 2021.
To be fair to Shop Direct, they acknowledged the poor communication here and refunded 
the interest of £252.44. But I dont see that as sufficient as compensation  because it 
wouldve been reasonable to expect that Shop Direct would not charge interest anyway 
under the FCAs guidance on the terms of a payment break. And Mrs Ms credit file was 
marked. In view of the poor communications I think its reasonable that Shop Direct should 
pay a further £100 in compensation and remove the markers from Mrs Ms credit file.
Payment Holiday  February 2021. Mrs M asked for a payment holiday  but due to an 
error, it wasnt set up properly by Shop Direct. They acknowledged their error and set it up 
again in April 2021. And told us that the missed payment markers had been removed from 
Mrs Ms credit file  they also showed us the evidence that this was done. Mrs M had 
complained that she was charged interest and that her payments had increased after the 
end of the payment holiday. But was Ive explained, as part of the scheme, interest was still 
payable and any deferred payments had to be made up. The email from Shop Direct dated 
14 April 2021 set this out as it said that delayed payment periods made under a BNPL deal 
were extended by three months  so Mrs M had an additional three months to pay and 
avoid the interest that would otherwise have been charged when the payments became 
due. In other words - interest was still payable, but at a later date.
I did note that in their email to Mrs M on 3 February 2021 they said your payment freeze 
has now ended  which was confusing as actually, Mrs M had a payment break  as 
Shop Direct called it, and not a payment freeze/payment holiday. But on balance, Shop 
Direct acted reasonably here by apologising for their error. They paid compensation of £55 
 which our investigator said should be increased to £175  which I think is fair for what 
happened.
And so  my provisional decision is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and ask Shop Direct to 
remove the markers from Mrs Ms credit file for November 2020 and December 2020 and 
pay an additional £100 in compensation  in addition to the further £120 as proposed by 
our investigator.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Shop Direct had no comments to make, but Mrs M did. She said:
The compensation should be higher for the stress and upset caused. She said she 
had suffered hair loss as a result.
She said she didnt receive statements during the payment holiday and of she had, 
she couldve made payments towards the interest. She said it was all down to her to 
contact Shop Direct to sort things out.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered Mrs Ms further comments. On the matter of statements, I looked at Shop 
Directs records again. They show Mrs M was sent statements, either in paper format or 
online  each month from January 2021 to May 2021. So, she must have been aware of the 
balance and transactions on her account. 
Ive considered her point about compensation again. Our service says that an award 
between £100 and £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or 
a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. And it may have resulted in 
some acute stress, possibly lasting weeks. And I think thats where I would put Mrs Ms 
complaint  the award is a total of £275 (including what Shop Direct have paid)  so it is in 
line with the criteria we have set down.
And so  my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision..
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must:
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £100 (for the payment break 
in November 2020) and compensation of £120 (for the February 2021 payment 
holiday). This is in addition to the £55 already paid.
Remove the markers at credit reference agencies for November 2020 and 
December 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman