DRN-3541291
The complaint
Miss H complains that Circle UK Trading Limited (Circle) refused to refund money it held for 
her in an online account and then tried to charge her a fee for this money as the account 
was considered dormant.
What happened
Miss H was gifted some money through an online account with Circle. However, Circle 
closed and any money that remained in its accounts incurred a dormancy fee. Miss H says 
she was unaware of this and when she tried take out her money two years later, Circle 
refused to return the amount in full. 
So, Miss H brought a complaint to this service. When we contacted Circle, it replied and said 
it would refund the £140 that was in Miss Hs account plus £90 in dormancy fees that had 
been charged over three years (£30 per year). 
Following a further review an investigator from our service looked at the offer and 
recommended that Circle also pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss H had suffered. Circle agreed but Miss H doesnt. Miss H doesnt think this amount 
reflects the distress and inconvenience shes suffered.  
Because Miss H doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a review. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 December 2022. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint for additional compensation. Ill explain why.
As Circle has refunded the money Miss H had in this account plus the fees, Im satisfied that 
the only issue that I still have to decide is how much compensation I should require Circle to 
pay for the distress and inconvenience Miss H has suffered.
When we consider compensation on a case, we'll consider everything that's happened. Well 
look at the time that was taken to resolve this complaint, the impact on a consumers health 
and whether the business couldve done more. The same mistake could have a different 
impact on different people. So, there are times when we will award different amounts in 
similar cases. 
An award of up to £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small errors, or a 
larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically result in an 
impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, inconvenience, 
disappointment or loss of expectation.
Miss H says that she should receive compensation of £750 and up to around £1,500. Over 
the space of six months Miss H contacted Circle regularly. And from what I can see Circle 
replied twice, both times a generic email setting out that that it was awaiting a treasury team 
update. Throughout these emails Miss H set out what she wanted and explained to Circle 
that she had a chronic illness, she had mobility restrictions and that having to constantly 
chase Circle was causing her anxiety. Miss H very clearly said that the issues she was 
having trying to contact Circle was impacting her mental health. But this was never 
acknowledged by Circle.
Miss H has submitted extensive evidence of her medical conditions. Her medical practitioner 
has also submitted a detailed list of conditions that Miss H suffers from that impact 
extensively on her day to day life. A letter from a clinical psychologist states that Miss H has 
interacting difficulties that lead to chronic heightened anxiety and stress which are 
exacerbated by multiple day to day triggers. The psychologist says that frequent peaks of 
emotional distress lead to emotional upheaval and impairment of functioning for Miss H.
Miss H has told us exactly how interacting with Circle has impacted her daily. When Circle 
either didnt reply or just sent a generic acknowledgement of the issue this had a detrimental 
effect on her. In particular Miss H sets out how having to even send a chaser email to Circle 
impacted her whole day, even down to being unable to carry out normal day to day tasks 
because the task of sending the email was so stressful. 
In early 2021 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out guidance FG21/1 for firms on 
the fair treatment of vulnerable customers. This guidance asks businesses to monitor and 
assess whether they are meeting and responding to the needs of customers with 
characteristics of vulnerability and to make improvements where this is not happening.
Miss H told Circle about her vulnerabilities. So, it was Circles responsibility under the FCA 
guidance to ensure that its actions, or lack of action wasnt impacting her. But it would seem 
that Circle missed these warning signs, and the reality is that each time Circle ignored Miss 
H or didnt respond or acknowledge her email, this was having a detrimental effect on Miss 
Hs day to day life. To me it looks like Circle completely misunderstood the nature and scale 
of the characteristics of vulnerability being shown by Miss H, even after she told Circle about 
them.
So, I think in these specific circumstances further compensation is warranted. In short Miss 
H has provided documented evidence that she falls into a category of an extremely 
vulnerable person. She has provided evidence that she told Circle on more than one 
occasion that she fell into this category. And not only did Circle not acknowledge this, it 
completely ignored Miss Hs pleas to prioritise or deal with her complaint.
Given the scale of evidence provided and the lack of engagement from Circle throughout this 
complaint, in particular its failure to act on the information provided by Miss H, especially 
given the guidance issued by the FCA, I think this level of impact on her daily life means this 
does fall into the £750 - £1,500 category of compensation for distress. As such Im planning 
on recommending that Circle pays Miss H £1,000 compensation in total (less any 
compensation thats already been paid) for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered for 
the reasons Ive set out above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 20 December 2022.Both parties have responded, and both have accepted my provisional decision. I 
acknowledge both responses and as there are no further issues raised, I see no reason to 
depart from my findings as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for additional compensation. I require Circle 
UK Trading Limited to:
Pay Miss H £1,000 compensation in total (less any compensation thats already been 
paid) for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered for the reasons Ive set out 
above. I would ask Circle UK Trading Limited, when its corresponding with Miss H to 
set out the dates on which it made the refund and paid previous compensation, so as 
to avoid any confusion and minimise any further distress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman