DRN-3415942
The complaint
Ms G has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In August 2015 AvantCredit provided Ms G with a loan of £2,500. The loan was repayable 
over 48 months and the monthly repayments were £106.21. 
Ms G complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked she could afford the loan. Our 
adjudicator upheld Ms Gs complaint. He thought AvantCredit was wrong to have offered the 
loan to Ms G. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms G 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms G would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Gs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
Before granting this loan, AvantCredit verified Ms Gs income using a standard industry tool. 
It found her average net monthly income was £1,250. AvantCredit carried out a credit search 
and also had sight of Ms Gs bank statements. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it 
carried out before lending to Ms G were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
The credit search showed Ms G had outstanding debt of £2,592 over five separate accounts. 
She was due to pay around £305.43 a month in total on her existing credit commitments. 
With the new loan repayment of £106.21 almost a third of her income would be spent on 
repaying her debts.
I think what AvantCredit saw in Ms Gs bank statement ought to have caused it even more 
concern as it appeared Ms G was in financial difficulties. In June 2015 shed paid various 
lenders almost as much as was coming into her account and she appeared to have taken 
out some payday loans. She had an unarranged overdraft. Some direct debits and standing 
orders had been returned unpaid.   
I think the information from Ms Gs bank statement should have made AvantCredit realise 
that Ms G was not going to be in a position to sustainably make the loan repayments of 
£106.21 over the next four years, given that she already seemed to be over-stretched 
financially. So I dont think AvantCredit treated Ms G fairly when it agreed to lend to her.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms G to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the amounts due 
under the loan agreement. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Ms G as payments towards the capital amount;
If Ms G has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to her 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms G; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Ms Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman