DRN-4466112
The complaint
Ms S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI), and her intended use of arbitration 
related to her family legal protection insurance policy.
Any reference to Ms S or UKI includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Ms S made a claim related to breach of contract for buying or hiring services under 
her family legal protection insurance.
In December 2022 UKI issued a final response letter explaining why it had declined 
the claim. This letter outlined options for Ms S to escalate matters if she remained 
unhappy, including an option to use this Service or arbitration.
Ms S chose to use arbitration and following a dispute about the choice of arbitrator 
UKI issued another final response letter in February 2023. It stood by its choice, and 
attributed a lack of progression to a delay on Ms S part  saying she had not agreed 
to pay costs should she lose at arbitration. 
The matter came to this Service, and one of our Investigators didnt uphold the 
matter. Ms S disagreed so the matter came to me. 
I issued an Ombudsmans final decision that considered matters up until February 
2023, not upholding the complaint. I explained the scope of my decision was narrow 
and would not touch on the subject matter the arbitrator would be considering  the 
insurance claim itself. And I was satisfied UKI had acted reasonably by seeking clear 
agreement with Ms S on her potential liability for costs. And that UKI hadnt caused 
any material delays to the arbitration to the extent I would make an award. 
In June 2023 UKI issued another final response. Within this it addressed concerns 
about service, as well as its choice of arbitrator and commentary around the relevant 
law it said should apply. It recognised there was a delay in responding to a claim 
form and awarded £100 to apologise for this service issue. 
Ms S has since brought this second complaint about the events that followed. Ms S 
has provided substantial submissions outlining her concerns. These include the 
arbitration not progressing and reiterating her disagreement with UKIs position on its 
selected arbitrator and choice of law. She also raised more general concerns about 
UKIs position on the choice of law across its insurance policies.
One of our Investigators looked into matters and upheld the complaint, saying:
oThe insurance policy was clear in the event of a dispute over choice of 
arbitrator, the matter would be referred to the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators 
(CIA) to determine. And given there had been a dispute over the arbitrator 
for some time, UKI should have referred this accordingly. So, while this 
Service would not become involved with the decision of any such review, she 
was satisfied UKI had delayed matters for Ms S. So, she awarded £200 in 
addition to the £100 already offered for other service issues.
oThis Service would not comment on commercial decisions UKI made 
regarding the products it offers or wider regulatory concerns.
oMs S had raised concerns about UKIs accessibility  and while we wouldnt 
comment on a wider commercial level  she was satisfied UKI had alerted Ms 
S to various ways she could contact it.
UKI agreed to the view, and said it would send Ms S relevant forms for her to sign 
so the matter could be escalated to the CIA.
Ms S disagreed, providing a detailed submission that reiterated concerns, adding:
oUKI had failed to send her relevant forms to fill in previously.
oThe investigator hadnt addressed concerns about the choice of law that 
should apply to the arbitration.
oThe delay on UKIs part had caused substantial impact on her.
oShe wished for this Service to direct UKI to provide details of an arbitrator 
working under different law, ask or direct the CIA to select an arbitrator that 
practiced Scottish law, and for UKI to change its processes for residents of 
the UK outside of England.
The Investigator responded to these points, saying she recognised UKI shouldve 
begun the referral to the CIA earlier  and in doing so, this included any necessary 
steps (such as forms). It would now be for the CIA to determine the arbitrator  not 
this Service. She said the award she made recognised the level of distress and 
inconvenience she believed was reasonable. And she reiterated this Service wouldnt 
direct UKI to make commercial changes to its policies as Ms S requested, as we look 
at individual complaints.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S submissions to this service are extensive. It is evident she has gone to great lengths 
and effort to explain why she believes UKI has acted unfairly. Given the informal nature of 
this Service, I have not mirrored this level of detail. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be  which means I will 
only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make.
The crux of the matter here concerns UKIs choice of arbitrator, and a dispute about the law 
that should apply when considering the claim itself. Under a section related to complaints, 
Ms S policy states:
If your complaint relates to Section 4  Family Legal Protection, you can refer your 
complaint to arbitration instead. This is where an independent person, known as an 
arbitrator, makes a decision on how to settle the dispute.
The arbitrator will be a solicitor or barrister or other suitably qualified person that you 
and we agree on. If you and we cant agree, we will ask the Chartered Institute of 
Arbitrators to decide.
The arbitrators decision will be final and whoever does not win will have to pay all costs and expenses of the arbitration.
Ms S wishes to use the arbitration process to handle the dispute about her insurance claim 
being declined. And its clear there is a dispute over the selected arbitrator that UKI put 
forward to deal with this matter. 
So, it is important here I outline the scope of the decision I am considering. 
The arbitrator (once appointed) will consider the insurance claim itself. So, given Ms S has 
selected the arbitration process instead of referring the insurance claim dispute to this 
Service, I will not be commenting on any of this subject matter that the arbitrator will look at. 
Ms S has explained at length why she believes UKI has failed to provide a suitable arbitrator 
for various reasons. But the policy is clear that a dispute about such a matter will fall to the 
CIA to select one as Ms S and UKI do not agree. So again, I will not comment on the 
proposed appointment or selection on the part of UKI as this decision will fall to this Institute 
to determine. 
I have considered the events that followed on from my last final decision and UKIs actions. 
Simply, it is evident there was an ongoing dispute about UKIs chosen arbitrator. And given 
the policy states it will refer the matter to the CIA in the event the parties cannot agree, Im 
satisfied this course of action should have been taken. But even as of June 2023, some four 
months on from UKIs previous final response letter, this option wasnt taken forward.
So, Im satisfied UKI made a mistake here, and that its actions delayed matters. Ive taken 
into account the impact Ms S has described, and I dont doubt it added unnecessary 
frustration to events for her across the several months that the matter didnt move forward. 
However, given the arbitration matter will now move forward, Im satisfied this limits the 
impact of the delay. And Im in agreement a sum of £300 in total (taking into account the 
£100 already offered by UKI) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms S appears to have raised concerns about having to fill in the additional relevant forms 
UKI has mentioned. But this sort of administration doesnt persuade me to make any 
additional award.
Ms S has also raised concerns about UKIs wider insurance policies in relation to the 
selection of law, and processes regarding accessibility to raise concerns. 
As our Investigator has said, it is not for this Service to set or direct firms to change wider 
commercial practices. My decision outlines the mistakes I believe UKI has made in this 
instance, and I will leave it to the relevant arbitrator/CIA to determine the other issues in 
hand. 
In regard to accessibility to raise concerns, its evident Ms S has been able to raise matters 
with UKI, which its answered, then she brought those issues to this Service. So even if I 
agreed there had been failings in places  which from what Ive seen I dont think there has 
been  this wouldnt persuade me to make any additional award or direction.
My final decision
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must:
Pay Ms S £300 in total for compensation related to delays and service issues. This is 
inclusive of the £100 it had previously offered within its June 2023 final response 
letter.Engage with the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators to take the dispute regarding the 
arbitrator forward. This will include providing appropriate information and any 
necessary forms to Ms S to allow such a review in line with its policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman