DRN-4436541
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds decision to 
make only a partial payment in respect of veterinary fees claimed for under his pet insurance 
policy. 
Any reference to Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) includes the 
actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised what 
happened. 
Mr H had a pet insurance policy for his late dog  who Ill refer to as T. The policy 
was underwritten by C&G.
When Mr H submitted veterinary fees to C&G for an operation T had required, C&G 
said it would only make a partial payment of £250 towards the anaesthetic cost  
saying it was only required to pay reasonable costs under the policy. 
It later agreed to cover the cost of additional anaesthesia T had required during the 
operation. 
Unhappy, Mr H complained. As a gesture of goodwill, C&G made an additional 
payment of £100 but said Mr H would have to pay the difference. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
upheld it saying C&G hadnt provided any evidence to show how it determined £250 
was a reasonable anaesthesia cost. Without this she couldnt say it had acted fairly 
and so said it needed to pay the full anaesthetic cost. 
Mr H accepted the Investigators findings. C&G didnt provide any further information. 
And so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy document which says:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: Reasonable, and Essential for your pets 
health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark up of 100% for 
veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees []. 
So, on the face of it, the policy is clear that C&G will only cover costs it deems to be 
reasonable. Reasonable isnt defined under the policy, but the policy says: 
Each and every claim will be reviewed by Our claims assessor and costs will be 
compared against charges for the same or similar Treatment to make sure that the 
Treatment and Veterinary fees are reasonable, necessary, essential, and not 
excessive compared to the rest of the UK market.
C&G told Mr H £250 is a reasonable cost for anaesthesia, and that this figure is based on its 
own market research - which takes into account veterinary charges across the United 
Kingdom. 
Our Investigator asked C&G to share this information with us so we could consider whether 
£250 was reasonable. Whilst C&G might not share commercially sensitive information with 
Mr H, it hasnt provided anything to this Service to substantiate its position. Without this, I 
cant reasonably conclude its decision to make only a partial payment of £250 was fair, and 
Im therefore, upholding this complaint and directing it to cover the full costs of the 
anaesthesia.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to cover the full cost of the anaesthetic. 
If Mr H has already paid this, C&G should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr 
H paid the invoice to when C&G make payment  subject to proof of Mr H having paid the 
invoice. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman