DRN-4173969
The complaint
Mr H complains that Skrill Limited incorrectly processed a number of withdrawals he tried to 
make, which meant the money never credited his other account.
What happened
In mid-to-late 2021, Mr H tried to make a number of withdrawals from his account with Skrill 
to an account he held with another bank. The withdrawals left his Skrill account, but never 
credited his account with the other bank. So Mr H complained to Skrill that it hadnt 
processed the withdrawals correctly.
Skrill investigated but said its records showed it had processed the payments correctly. It 
suggested Mr H chase the payments with the other bank. But Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
Skrills response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. During our investigation, the other bank said it 
had found the withdrawals had been paid into another of its customers accounts but it 
couldnt now remove them. And our investigator said the evidence suggested the 
withdrawals had gone to the wrong account as a result of an error by Skrill. So they thought 
Skrill should refund the money Mr H had lost. Skrill disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skrill has said that Mr H made a number of successful withdrawals from his Skrill account in 
June 2021. But the debit card he used to make those withdrawals expired at the of June 
2021, so when he wanted to make a deposit into his account in early July 2021, he had to 
set up a new payment.
Skrill says Mr H set up a new payment using a new debit card from his other bank, and 
chose to save these card details on Skrills system. But the deposit he then tried to make 
with these new card details failed, and so he had to set up a second new payment when he 
tried to make the deposit again a few minutes later. And he again chose to save those card 
details.
The deposit Mr H made using the second new payment he set up was successful, so Skrill 
says these card details were saved for him to use in future. And Mr H was able to use these 
card details to make later successful withdrawals to his account with the other bank in both 
July and August 2021.
But Mr H was also able to use the card details from the first failed deposit again when he 
tried to make other withdrawals in July and October 2021  and it is these withdrawals which 
never reached his account with the other bank.
Skrill says it doesnt know how Mr H was able to use the card details from the first failed 
deposit again but, from what it has said, it appears these details should have been removed 
and not available for him to use after the first attempted payment failed. So I think its likely 
that an error by Skrill meant that these payment details were still available to Mr H when they 
shouldnt have been.
And so if the failed payment details had been removed, as I think they should have been, I 
think Mr H would have made the withdrawals successfully and wouldnt have lost the money 
he now has. So I think Skrill should refund the withdrawals that were made from Mr Hs 
account. And as Mr H has been denied the use of this money for some time, I think Skrill 
should pay 8% interest on this refund, from the date of the withdrawals until the date of the 
refund.
The other bank has said the missing withdrawals have now been found in one of its other 
customers accounts. And, from what its told us, it seems likely that the withdrawals went to 
this other account because of a mistake in the card number that was entered for the 
withdrawals. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr H made a mistake, either when 
entering the card details when setting up the payments or when selecting which payment 
details to use when making the withdrawals. And from what Ive seen, he was able to make 
withdrawals successfully when the payments werent affected by the error I think Skrill made 
here. And so I dont think it would be fair for him to bear any responsibility for the money he 
has lost.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Skrill Limited to:
Refund Mr H the £1,340 he lost
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the withdrawals until the date 
of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman