DRN-3611818
The complaint
Mrs M complains about problems with  payments through her  HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) 
account. She doesnt feel the compensation HSBC has offered is fair as she believes she 
has lost  £1,120.71
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I have seen Mrs Ms account statements .A payment towards her credit card  for 
£1,120.71 made on 1 December 2020 was returned.. HSBC explained it needed to 
carry out some security checks. I dont think that was unreasonable as those checks 
are to protect  the consumer and the bank. However, it acknowledges, having 
completed these checks, it  didnt process the payment. It apologised and offered 
£300 compensation for the inconvenience.  But I note Mrs M has not accepted this 
payment
The statements show Mrs M then made a payment of £2,077.07 on 28 January 2021 
to cover the returned payment in December and I assume the payment then due in 
January. However, a third payment for £1,120.71 was made on 9 February 2021 
which Mrs M says she didnt authorise. 
Its very difficult when there is a disagreement as  to what has happened. HSBC says 
Mrs M wanted to make the third payment but didnt want to go into the branch due to 
COVID concerns. Mrs M disputes this saying she had already visited the branch 
twice. Whats not in dispute is that two members of HSBC staff visited Mrs M at home 
to get her signature on a form. Its unfortunate that, due to a branch closure, its not 
been possible to locate that form. HSBC spoke to one of the staff involved who said 
the reason for the signature was to get Mrs Ms authority to make the payment. I 
think it unlikely HSBC would have made a payment on Mrs Ms behalf unless it 
believed this is what she wanted 
I do appreciate Mrs Ms concern about the third payment, but the money isnt lost . 
As I understand this payment did reach the credit card provider. So, she should be 
able to get a refund from that provider. However, I do appreciate that has left Mrs M 
without those funds and with the inconvenience of seeking a refund. But I dont feel I 
have any evidence to conclude that the third payment was made in error by HSBC.
Finally, Mrs M has told us that she doesnt feel HSBC treated her fairly for example 
blaming her for a problem with her initial cheque. I have no evidence of this. I do  
think HSBCs investigation has been reasonable , it accepted it  made a mistake in 
not processing her cheque once it completed its security checks and offered , in my 
view, an appropriate level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement HSBC UK plc should pay Mrs M the £300 compensation it has 
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman