DRN-1932104
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has dealt with a claim. 
What happened
Mr C bought a travel insurance policy for his son, underwritten by URV. He is representing 
his son in this complaint, who is a minor. 
Mr Cs son broke his leg during a school trip abroad. Mr C contacted URV and asked it to 
arrange his sons repatriation to the UK as quickly as possible as advised by the treating 
doctor. Mr C didnt think URV was acting quickly enough and it failed to return his calls. And 
so he made arrangements to repatriate his son himself. URV contacted Mr C six days after 
his first contact to offer to arrange flights but he had already made arrangements by this 
time. 
Mr C complained to URV about the lack of assistance and support and the delay in 
arranging repatriation. 
URV offered £450 compensation for the lack of contact Mr C received and for not reviewing 
the medical information more quickly.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found URVs offer was reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
He wasnt told a fit to fly certificate would be needed.
URV said the only information required was a medical diagnosis - if further 
information was required, Mr C would have obtained it. 
Mr C spoke to multiple call centre staff who didnt know what was required in terms of 
documentation.
He didnt receive call backs and had to wait on hold for hours.
The insurer didnt act promptly, as suggested by the investigator. 
Mr C had to telephone repeatedly to get information on 18 and 19 February and 
didnt hear from URV until 24 February with options for repatriation on 26 February.
Taking a week to arrange repatriation of a minor is not prompt.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think URVs updated offer of £450 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to set out that I can only consider the impact and distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr Cs son, who is the eligible complainant under the rules of this Service. I cant 
award compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C or any other family 
members. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
should provide reasonable guidance when a claim is made. 
Mr C has set out URVs failings in his complaint letter and URV hasnt disputed the number 
of calls Mr C made or that it could have provided better information and updates. And so Im 
satisfied that URV didnt handle the claim fairly for these reasons. It also didnt provide the 
appropriate guidance and information which Mr C required to make a claim on behalf of his 
son. 
Ive fully considered Mr Cs comments about why he thinks a higher level of compensation is 
due. I think £450 is appropriate as recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused for 
failing to communicate effectively which meant Mr Cs son had to wait for Mr C to arrange 
the repatriation with the school himself.
I appreciate this would have been a very distressing and stressful time for the family but as 
set out above, Im limited to considering the impact on Mr Cs son only. Mr Cs son wasnt in 
direct contact with URV and so wouldnt have been aware of the nature of the conversations. 
And so he wouldnt have felt the same frustrations as Mr C. But Im satisfied that Mr Cs son 
was affected by the delay in having to wait to hear what was happening and so I think the 
level of compensation awarded for waiting, is appropriate. 
Mr C doesnt think URV acted promptly. I can see that URV did validate the claim quickly but 
failed to update Mr C promptly and didnt keep him informed. So I can see why he is so 
frustrated. But as Ive already explained, I cant consider the impact or distress suffered by 
Mr C himself. 
Overall, I think £450 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr C £450 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman