DRN-4183364
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly defaulted his account when he was 
maintaining his payments on a payment arrangement. 
What happened
Mr M opened an account with Capital One in 2012. He has explained that he experienced 
financial difficulties in 2021 due to ill health meaning he was not working for a period of time. 
He says he contacted Capital One about his situation and a payment arrangement was set 
up which he maintained. In 2022, Mr M was able to get a new job and had planned to go 
back to making his full payments but found his account had been defaulted. Mr M says this 
shouldnt have happened as he had maintained the agreed payments and kept Capital One 
informed of his situation. He also said he didnt receive a formal letter of default action.
Capital One issued a final response letter dated 21 June 2022. It said that it spoke to Mr M 
on 8 March 2022 and his account was set on a breathing space arrangement. Mr M was 
behind with his payments at the time, and he was told this was being reported to the credit 
reference agencies. An informal arrangement was set up and it was explained that the 
account could still be defaulted. It said Mr Ms payments werent enough to meet the 
minimum repayment amounts, so his account fell further behind, and a default letter was 
issued on 2 May 2022. As the payment set out in the default letter wasnt made the account 
was defaulted in June 2022. It noted that Mr M had said he hadnt received certain letters, 
but it confirmed these had been sent.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Capital One had acknowledged 
Mr Ms situation and put an arrangement in place because of this. She said Capital One had 
told Mr M that his account could still be defaulted and that it had acted in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he was able to get a job quite 
quickly and continued to pay the amount Capital One had set for him. He said he was told 
the payment arrangement would run for six months and then he could go back to his full 
payments, but his account was defaulted before then. He said he was led to believe that by 
maintaining the agreed payments he wouldnt be defaulted, and he reiterated that he didnt 
receive the default letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M is upset that a default was applied to his account while he was 
making the agreed reduced payments. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to 
be satisfied that Capital One had done something wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
I have looked through the information provided and can see that Mr M was sent letters in 
December 2021, explaining that his account had been put on an arrangement called ongoing 
breathing space. It said during this period interest, fees and phone calls would stop but that 
Mr Ms account would eventually be restricted and defaulted unless he was able to afford an 
alternative payment plan or bring the account up to date. Mr M was also sent an income and 
expenditure form to complete to enable Capital One to get a better understanding of his 
situation. Having looked at the correspondence at this time I think that Capital One did what 
was required to try to assist Mr M.
Mr M made offers to settle his account, but these werent accepted by Capital One. I 
appreciate this will have been disappointing, but I cannot say that Capital One was required 
to accept the reduced settlement offer. As it continued to apply the breathing space to 
Mr Ms account, I find it was trying to assist him.
Mr M completed the income and expenditure form and sent this to Capital One. He called 
Capital One after sending this in and he explained he couldnt make his payments at the 
time but that he would be looking to return to his full payments in due course. On the call it 
was noted that Capital One had accepted the offer of payments of around £25 a month 
based on Mr Ms declared income and expenditure details. It was explained that the 
payments would reduce his balance but that this wasnt a formal payment plan as the 
payment wasnt enough. It was explained that missed payments would be reported to his 
credit file and that the account could still be defaulted. It was said that a letter would be sent 
in advance of this. 
Based on this call, I find that Mr M was given the details he needed to be aware that while 
his payment amount had been accepted information would be being sent to his credit file. 
The letter sent dated 8 March 2023 explained that Mr M would still receive important 
messages such as information about possible default and that if received these letters still 
apply.
The payments Mr M was making towards his account at this time didnt meet the minimum 
required payments for Mr Ms account, therefore the arrears continued to build. Mr M was 
sent a letter dated 7 April 2022 saying that he had permanently lost use of his card and that 
his account could default within the next two months. The amount needed to clear the 
arrears was set out and it was explained that the minimum payment amount would then 
need to be paid to stay on track. As Mr M didnt clear the arrears on his account a default 
notice was issued dated 2 May 2022. 
The default notice set out what Mr M needed to do in order to prevent a default happening. 
Mr M has said he didnt receive this. This is unfortunate but as I can see from the account 
notes provided that the letter was sent, I do not find I can say Capital One was at fault for 
Mr M not receiving the letter. Mr M didnt make the payment set out in the default notice by 
the required time and so his account was defaulted. 
I cannot say whether Mr M would have been able to source the money needed for the 
payment requested in the default letter had he received this. But putting that aside, as the 
letter was sent and Mr M had been made aware previously that his account could be 
defaulted, I do not find that I can say Capital One did anything wrong by taking the action set 
out in the default letter.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr M but in this case, I do not find I can say that 
the default was applied incorrectly or unfairly. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman