DRN-2634554
complaint
Mrs P says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Mrs Ps 
recollection is that she applied for the credit card and PPI policy in a meeting. But St 
Andrews has told us that Mrs Ps application was made by post. It has given us a copy of 
the Mrs Ps credit card application and credit agreement. It has Mrs Ps pre-printed address 
on it which is what I would expect to see in the case of a postal sale, so I think its most likely 
Mrs P did apply for her credit card and PPI by post, but bearing in mind how long ago the 
sale took place, I can understand why Mrs P cant recall in detail about what happened. 
At the time, Mrs P was employed as an administration officer. She has told us she was 
entitled to between three- and six-months employee sick pay if she was too unwell to work. 
Mrs P said she didnt have any other financial means such as savings that she could have 
relied upon to make her credit card repayments in the event she wasnt working. She would 
receive redundancy pay in the event she lost her job. Mrs P told us of three medical 
conditions, one of which was diagnosed many years before she took the policy. 
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ps credit card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
St Andrews has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account 2008.
Mrs Ps representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ps representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2008. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI CodeThe ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like St Andrews at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ps case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so St 
Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.
 
- Whether St Andrews gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and St 
Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs P know she had a choice?St Andrews had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mrs P has told us it was 
included as part of the credit card package. 
But, and as Ive said above, St Andrews has been able to give us a copy of Mrs Ps credit 
card application and credit agreement. This has been completed by hand and signed and 
dated by Mrs P. I see on that form there is a separate section entitled THE TOTAL 
PROTECTION OF CREDIT CARE followed by a brief description of the PPI policy. There 
are two boxes, one to take the policy and the other not to take it and I see that Mrs P has 
ticked the box in order to take it. If Mrs P hadnt wanted the policy, she could have ticked the 
no box and taken the credit card without the PPI cover. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide advice?
St Andrews says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs P hasnt given us her 
recollection of whether advice was given. But as I think this was most likely a postal sale and 
Mrs P completed the credit card application and agreement without any intervention of a 
representative of St Andrews, and in her own time, I think it unlikely that advice was given. 
This means St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs P. Instead, it 
had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs P to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
St Andrews has provided us with Mrs Ps credit card application and credit agreement  
showing that PPI had been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it 
says she wouldve received, including the policy terms and conditions from around the time 
of the sale  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ps. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mrs P at the time, I dont think St Andrews gave 
Mrs P the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place by post. The credit agreement didnt give Mrs P any information about 
the PPI, other than it providing cover for accident, sickness and redundancy, but it referred 
her to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mrs P would have agreed to take it out without at 
least having a broad understanding of the cover it. And I think its unlikely Mrs P would have 
thought it was free.
But it was St Andrewss responsibility to draw to Mrs Ps attention the important information 
 i.e. the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision.
 
Im not persuaded St Andrews did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy was made clear to Mrs P, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that St Andrews 
adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations 
and exclusions. So, I dont think St Andrews gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ps representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- the common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews shortcomings have on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs P 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs P. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mrs P 
would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done things properly. 
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Mrs P thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs P ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a proportion of her outstanding balance. 
But I accept that St Andrews didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So, while Mrs 
P didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and/or symptoms that     
Mrs P saw a doctor about during the 12 months before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date of the policy. Also, chronic conditions that 
Mrs P was aware of at the start date and which recurred within 12 months of the start 
date were excluded; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience or training 
reasonably qualified her to do.
 
 The cover provided by the policy ended when Mrs P turned 65 (and not 60 which is 
what Mrs P thought). 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs P was in permanent 
employment and the one medical condition she suffered from was controlled by medication 
and Mrs P didnt tell us she had needed any time off from work because of it. So, I dont 
think it would have been upper most in her mind when she took the policy to the extent that it 
would have caused her to change her mind about taking it. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
from taking out the policy, Mrs P, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs P was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in 
all probability, be limited.
Mrs P has complained that she reached 65 while the policy was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mrs P was 47 years of age when she took out 
the PPI, so I think its more likely than not shed have thought shed still get some value out 
of having the PPI, as it would have covered her for a reasonable period of time before she 
turned 65. And the policy would end when she turned 65 so she would stop paying for it at 
this time. 
 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs P would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews should pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of St 
Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave Mrs P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 1997 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find St Andrews negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman