DRN-3149169
The complaint
Miss J complained to Santander UK Plc when they reported a missed payment on her loan 
to the credit reference agencies, despite a payment deferral having been agreed.
 
What happened
Miss J took a loan out through Santander in May 2017. The loan was agreed over a term of 
48 months with fixed monthly repayments of £188.34. As agreed, Miss J made loan 
repayments each month.
In March 2020, Miss J tried to contact Santander to discuss her loan repayments. Miss Js 
income had reduced due to the impact of the global pandemic. She was concerned that she 
couldnt afford to make future repayments. She understood steps were being taken to 
support people where they could no longer afford to make repayments as a result of the 
pandemic.
After several attempts to contact Santander through various channels, Miss F noticed that an 
option to apply for a payment deferral was available. So, she applied to Santander for a 
three-month payment deferral. Her intention was that this would cover payments falling due 
on 15 April, May and June, after which she would continue with her normal repayments. 
Miss J also cancelled her loan repayment direct debit as she knew she wouldnt have money 
to cover this.
Santander wrote to Miss J, by email, to confirm that her payment deferral had been agreed. 
But they said this would apply to the repayments due in May, June and July 2020.
In June 2020, Miss J noticed that Santander had reported a missed loan repayment to the 
credit reference agencies. She couldnt understand why as she thought theyd agreed her 
payment deferral as shed requested. So, she contacted Santander.
Santander looked at the circumstances and told Miss J they would arrange for the payment 
deferral to be backdated to April. They also said theyd remove the missed payment marker 
reported to the credit reference agency. Miss J agreed to reinstate the direct debit so that the 
next payment would be collected on 15 July 2020.
Miss J called Santander again in July 2020. Shed noticed theyd now reported a missed 
payment for two months. She didnt understand why given what theyd previously told her. 
Santander agreed to investigate and request the payment deferral be backdated and any 
missed payments removed from her credit file. Santander said they would call Miss J back 
once they had a reply to their request.
Miss J rang Santander again in August 2020 as they hadnt called her back as promised. 
Santander apologised and told Miss J they werent able to backdate her payment deferral 
request. They also said they couldnt remove the missed payment information recorded with 
the credit reference agency. But Miss J wasnt happy, so she complained to Santander.
Santander contacted Miss J in September 2020. They said shed been given the wrong 
information in June 2020. They also agreed shed received poor service when they hadnt 
rung her back as promised. They paid her £100 as an apology. But Santander said they 
couldnt backdate her payment deferral request and also wouldnt be able to remove the 
missed payment from her credit file.
Miss J wasnt happy with Santanders response to her complaint. So, in early October 2020, 
she contacted this service and asked us to investigate her complaint for her. 
Our investigator thought Santander hadnt acted fairly here. She said they shouldve done 
more to help Miss J and provided informed updates. She said Santander should backdate 
the requested payment deferral and remove any adverse information recorded on her credit 
file as a result.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, they asked for the complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Miss F said shed unsuccessfully been trying to contact Santander during late March and 
early April 2020. Eventually, she was able to complete an online application for a 3-month 
payment deferral on 10 April 2020, once this option became available  Santander have 
confirmed this.
Miss Js next loan repayment was due on 15 April 2020. But due to her changed 
circumstances, as a result of the pandemic, she couldnt afford that payment. So, based 
upon the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Miss J did everything she could to try to resolve 
her situation with Santander. Im also satisfied that her request was made after the FCA 
issued its guidance and before her next repayment fell due. Miss J also cancelled the direct 
debit to ensure the payment wasnt claimed as she didnt have funds to cover this.
Ive listened to various recordings of calls between Miss J and Santander. In June 2020, 
Santander told Miss J they would backdate the payment deferral and correct the information 
on her credit file. But that didnt happen. Santander later told Miss J shed been wrongly 
advised, and her application was received too late to include the April payment in the 
deferral agreed. 
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Miss Js experience with them.
I think its clear Miss J wanted and needed to include her April payment within the deferral 
requested. While I accept that Santanders systems may have meant this couldnt be 
achieved within the timescales available to them, I dont think its fair for Miss J to be 
impacted by that. So, I agree with our investigator here. I believe that the fairest outcome 
wouldve been for Santander to backdate her request to the point it was received  i.e. 10 
April 2020. This wouldve ensured that the payments due in April, May and June were 
deferred.In Santanders response to our investigators view, they said they werent required to back 
date the start date to the previous payment due date. I cant see that Miss J asked for that. 
She asked for a payment deferral before her April payment was due. And while I accept 
Santander emailed Miss J with the payment months they included in the deferral; I dont 
think this was enough. 
Miss J hadnt missed any previous repayments to her loan and was adopting a responsible 
approach with Santander. As far as Im aware, shes also maintained all repayments since 
the deferral period ended. So, I dont think its fair that Santander refused to support her with 
her request. Santander are capable of making the requested amendments and so I will be 
asking them to do that here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Js complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to:
backdate the three-month payment deferral period in their records to include the 
payments that fell due on 15 April, May and June 2020.
amend the information reported on Miss Js credit file to remove any reference to the 
missed April payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman