DRN-2743310
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was misrepresented to her and wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss B under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that she electronically signed in July 2020. The car had a loss of power in November 2020 
so Miss B contacted the dealer and was advised to take the car to a manufacturers dealer 
for a diagnostic test. The manufacturers dealer said that the car required a thermostat 
housing outlet, coolant and a diesel particulate pressure sensor and quoted £904.94 for the 
repairs. 
Miss B complained to MotoNovo Finance about the car and it arranged for it to be inspected 
by an independent expert. The experts report concluded that there was no fault with the car 
so MotoNovo Finance didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service about the quality of the car, its fuel economy and that 
the car was misrepresented to her.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld in part. She was unable 
to conclude that the car was misrepresented to Miss B but she said that issues with the 
diesel particulate filter can affect the engine performance and fuel economy and that it was 
likely that there was a fault with the car that was present or developing at the time of sale. 
She recommended that MotoNovo Finance should: pay the repair costs (and for the car to 
be removed and towed to the garage); refund Miss Bs finance payments from November 
2020, with interest, because she hadnt had use of the car; and pay her £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused her.
MotoNovo Finance has explained why it considers that the independent experts report 
should be relied on and has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Miss B has also asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Shes 
responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary and 
amongst other things, that:
the car was misrepresented to her as it was advertised as having had one previous 
owner and is an ex-rental car;
the dealer has misrepresented other ex-rental cars that its sold;
she wants to reject the car, has lost faith in it and lost all confidence in driving it; and
shes made a statutory off-road notification about the car and its overdue for an MOT 
test; 
and shes set out in detail her comments on the independent inspection of the car and her 
dealings with MotoNovo Finance.
Miss B has also complained to MotoNovo Finance about the admin fee payable under the 
hire purchase agreement  but that doesnt form part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss B has provided a large amount of detailed evidence in support of her complaint 
 Ive reviewed that evidence and considered it in making my decision but I havent 
referred to all of it and have instead focussed on the evidence that I consider to be 
necessary for me to make my decision;
Miss B clearly feels very strongly that the car was misrepresented to her because it 
was advertised as having had one owner and she wasnt told that the car was an ex-
rental;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car had had more 
than one owner, I dont consider that there was any requirement for Miss B to be told 
that the car was an ex-rental and Ive seen no evidence to show that she was told 
that it wasnt an ex-rental;
Miss B has investigated other cars sold by the dealer which she says are ex-rental 
cars which have been misrepresented by the dealer  but the dealer is able to sell 
ex-rental cars and theres no requirement for it to refer to the cars as being ex-
rental;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car was 
misrepresented to Miss B in these circumstances;
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss B was less than four years old, had been driven for 
65,040 miles and had a price of £9,495;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car had a loss of power in November 2020  about four months after it had been 
supplied to Miss B - so she contacted the dealer and was advised to take the car to a 
manufacturers dealer for a diagnostic test;
the manufacturers dealer said that the car required a thermostat housing outlet, 
coolant and a diesel particulate pressure sensor and quoted £904.94 for the repairs;
Miss B complained to MotoNovo Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert in November 2020;
the inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 69,863  so Miss B had been 
able to drive more than 4,500 miles in the car  and concluded that:  we could not 
physically fault the vehicle at the time of our inspection to any degree, the vehicle 
performed and handled well during the course of road testing with no evident defect, 
but it did say that two fault codes were logged in the cars engine management 
control unit;
Miss B says that she hasnt used the car since then and has made a statutory off 
road notification about the car;although the independent expert couldnt find a fault with the car, I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the engine did suffer a loss of power in November 2020 and 
the manufacturers dealer has identified the repairs that are required;
I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a car that was less than four years old 
and which had a price of £9,495 to suffer a loss of power only about four months 
after it was supplied to Miss B and after it had only been used by her to drive about 
4,500 miles;
I dont consider that the car was as durable as it was reasonable for Miss B to expect 
it to be and, for that reason, I consider it to be more likely that not that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her;
Miss B has also complained about the cars fuel economy  the issues with the diesel 
particulate filter may be affecting the cars fuel economy but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that theres an issue with the cars fuel economy or 
that its fuel economy was misrepresented to Miss B  so I find that it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require MotoNovo Finance to take 
any further action about the cars fuel economy; 
I sympathise with Miss B for the issues that shes had with the car but I consider that 
the fault which caused the loss of power can be repaired and Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for Miss B to be able to reject the car in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to take the actions 
recommended by our investigator and as described below.
Putting things right
I find that MotoNovo Finance should arrange and pay for the repairs that the manufacturers 
dealer said were required, to be made to Miss Bs car. I find that it should also arrange and 
pay for the car to be collected from Miss B and transported for those repairs.  
Miss B hasnt been able to use the car since November 2020. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to refund to Miss B any monthly payments that shes 
made under the hire purchase agreement since the car suffered the loss of power in 
November 2020. I also find that it should pay interest on those refunds.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss B. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay her £200 to compensate her for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and I order MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
1. Arrange and pay for the repairs that the manufacturers dealer said were required, to 
be made to Miss Bs car (and to arrange and pay for the car to be collected from 
Miss B and transported for those repairs).  
2. Refund to Miss B the monthly payments that shes made under the hire purchase 
agreement since the car suffered the loss of power in November 2020.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.4. Pay £200 to Miss B to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Miss B a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman