DRN-1696140
 
The complaint
Miss C is complaining that a car Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  t/a Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF)  supplied her under a conditional sale agreement was of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2019 Miss C entered into a conditional sale agreement through BPF to acquire a 
car. The cash price of the car was around £18,700, it was around three years old and had 
travelled around 45,000 miles.
Miss C contacted the supplying dealership (SD) around three days after she received the car 
to report a number of issues. She says she told SD the tyre pressure warning light had come 
on and also that there was a continual beeping sound coming from the engine. She also said 
the car had a high fuel consumption. She says she asked to reject the car at this point, but 
SD said shed need to take it to a third-party garage to have it inspected, which she did.
The garage replaced one of the cars tyres, but Miss C says it told her it couldnt diagnose 
what the fault was with the beeping sound. Miss C contacted SD again to discuss the 
beeping noise and booked a date for the car to go back to SD to get this resolved. She also 
said the tyre pressure warning light had come back on again. In May 2019 Miss C took the 
car back to SD. SD gave her a courtesy car while the car was being repaired. It replaced the 
front parking sensors and refilled the air in the tyres. Around seven days later SD asked 
Miss C to come and collect the car. But, when she went to pick the car up, she noticed a 
number of scratches. She says she also noticed paint peeling off, so she thinks SD just 
painted over the scratches to mask the damage. She told SD that she wouldnt take the car 
away and wanted to reject it.
SD said she couldnt reject the car for cosmetic damage, so Miss C contacted BPF to say 
she wanted to reject the car. But BPF also didnt think she could reject it. It said SD had 
shown the damage was present before the sale. But it paid her £25 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the original issue had caused her. 
SD later contacted her to say she needed to return the courtesy car shed been given and 
collect her car. But she didnt agree. SD later wrote again to her to say it would start 
charging £25 per day storage for her car if she didnt collect it. So in August 2019 Miss C 
collected the car, but she maintained she should be allowed to reject it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it seemed SD had told Miss C to take 
the car to the third party for a diagnosis when she first reported the issue, but she said there 
wasnt anything to show Miss C had asked to reject it. She said Miss C had agreed to the 
repair by the third-party garage and subsequently by SD. So she didnt think Miss C had the 
right to reject it, once the repairs had been completed.
The investigator said it appeared SD had repaired the faults Miss C had raised. And she said 
it couldnt find any issues with the fuel consumption. She asked Miss C to provide an 
independent report to highlight any outstanding faults with the car. But Miss C said she 
wasnt able to do so. The investigator said she was unable to say Miss C could reject the car 
without anything to show there was a fault with the car.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss C acquired the car under a condition sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies a term into the agreement that the car must be 
of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, BPF is responsible for the quality 
of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that there were faults with 
the car. I think its also accepted they were present at the time of sale given they were 
highlighted so soon after she acquired the car. But the issue is whether the faults made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And, if so, whether Miss C should now be 
allowed to reject the car.
BPF has highlighted the CRA sets out Miss C cant use faults that would have been 
apparent from a reasonable inspection of the car at the point of supply to say it was of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, I think there are two issues I have to consider  should the 
scratches have been reasonably apparent to Miss C from examining the car before she 
acquired. and, if not, would a reasonable person think it unreasonable to see the scratches 
that were on the car. 
Firstly, Im not persuaded the scratches would have been reasonably apparent to Miss C at 
the point of supply. Miss C has said she thinks SD just painted over the scratches to mask 
the damage. And she said she noticed paint peeling off when she went to collect the car 
after the repair. I dont think its unusual for supplying dealerships to look to rectify minor 
issues and blemishes with a car before sale to make them more marketable. And, on 
balance, I think its likely SD would have done this in this case. But it seems this only 
temporarily fixed the issues. I appreciate Miss C was unhappy to see these scratches. But 
this doesnt mean the scratches made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, mileage and age of the car. In this case, Miss C paid 
around £18,700 for the car, it was around three years old and had travelled around 45,000 
miles at the point of supply. 
Its reasonable to expect that the car would show some signs of wear and tear given its age 
and mileage. I think it was also reasonable to expect that faults may arise with the car earlier 
than one would expect with a newer, lower mileage car. However, there are still certain 
reasonable expectations  even with an older second-hand car. Im also conscious Miss C 
paid a relatively large amount of money to acquire this car.
SD says its resolved the issue with the beeping noise and tyre pressure warning light. I note 
Miss C says the beeping noise is still there, but she hasnt given me anything to support this. 
So Im satisfied these issues have been fairly resolved. However, Ive also considered 
whether it was reasonable for the scratches on the car to be present at the point of supply, 
given the cars age, price and mileage  i.e. whether they are more than reasonable fair 
wear and tear.  
Miss C has shown there were a number of chips and minor scratches on the car. Its not 
disputed the scratches were present when the car was supplied to her. BPF has provided a copy of the inspection report from the auction company that SD acquired the car from. And 
this highlights the scratches on the car. 
I dont think it was unreasonable to expect there to be some scratches on the car given it 
had travelled over 45,000 miles at the point of supply. Im conscious Miss C paid around 
£18,700 for the car and it was only three years old. But I think the scratches on the car are 
fairly minor. And I dont think they are beyond what one would reasonably expect to see on a 
car that had travelled over 45,000 miles. Given this, Im not persuaded that the scratches 
would make the car of unsatisfactory quality. So it follows that I dont think Miss C was 
entitled to reject the car for these.
Finally Ive thought about Miss Cs complaint in respect to the fuel consumption. In particular 
Ive thought about whether shes shown there was a fault with the car that was causing it to 
use more fuel that it should do or if SD gave her misleading information. However, I dont 
think Miss C has given us anything to support that the car was using more fuel that it should 
do. I can see the investigator asked Miss C a number of times to provide evidence theres a 
fault causing this, but she hasnt done so.
I appreciate shes unhappy with the fuel consumption, but Im also conscious that this was a 
large car. It also was a used car, so its unlikely to have the same fuel efficiency as it would 
have done when it was new. I also dont think Miss C has given us anything to support that 
SD gave her false information about the expected fuel consumption that induced her into 
buying the car.
I appreciate Miss C feels strongly about this and that she says she should have been 
allowed to reject the car. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was unfair for 
BPF to say she couldnt reject the car. I also think the £25 in compensation it offered for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered from the initial issues were fair. It appears she was 
given a courtesy car for the time the car was within the garage. And Im satisfied reasonable 
steps were taken to fix the faults.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limiteds offer of £25 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused Miss C is fair. And it should pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. I make 
no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before date. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman