DRN-3233659
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Capital 
Consumer Finance (Hitachi), rejected his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In 2015 Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call G to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of G, Mr W decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a five year fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi. The system was subsequently installed.
In 2021 the CMC made a claim to Hitachi on Mr Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act. The 
CMC said that, following a cold call, G had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr W to enter into the contract with G. The misrepresentations included the claim 
that the panels would be self-funding, which had turned out not to be the case.
Hitachi did not accept that section 75 applied to Mr Ws purchase. It said that it had given 
Mr W a personal loan for no specific purpose, and that Hitachi had no business relationship 
with G. It was therefore not liable for whatever G had done or said.
The CMC pointed out that section 75 does not only apply to loans which are restricted to 
financing a particular purchase or which have to be paid directly to a third party instead of to 
the borrower. Unrestricted-use credit agreements also attract the benefits of section 75. In 
support of its position, the CMC cited section 12(c) of the Act (which is relevant to section 
75), and a Supreme Court decision, Durkin v DSG Retail Ltd and another [2004] UKSC 21.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but she did not uphold it. She 
agreed with the CMCs argument that section 75 can apply to unrestricted-use credit 
agreements. But she went on to say that not all of the requirements of section 12(c) 
appeared to have been fulfilled in Mr Ws case. Specifically, his credit agreement had not 
been made under pre-existing arrangements between Hitachi and G. Instead, Gs salesman 
had just filled in Mr Ws online loan application for him on Hitachis website.
The CMC argued that that was enough. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account the relevant 
law. In this case that includes sections 12, 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 75 could potentially apply 
to this transaction. If it does, then that would mean that Mr W could claim against Hitachi, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by G in the same way he could have 
claimed against G, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because, if it applies, it says that any negotiations 
between Mr W and G, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by G as an 
agent of Hitachi.
Both sections only apply in certain circumstances. To apply here, Mr Ws loan agreement 
has to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, a term which is defined in section 12.
Did Mr W have the right kind of credit agreement?
The relevant words of section 12 are:
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
being 
(c) an unrestricted-use credit agreement which is made by the creditor under 
pre-existing arrangements between himself and a person (the supplier) 
other than the debtor in the knowledge that the credit is to be used to 
finance a transaction between the debtor and the supplier.
(Here, the creditor means Hitachi, the supplier means G, and the debtor means Mr W.)
I accept that sections 56 and 75 both apply to such an agreement, because they both clearly 
say so. But I do not think that Mr Ws loan agreement was made under pre-existing 
arrangements between Hitachi and G. Nor do I think that Hitachi entered into the agreement 
in the knowledge that the credit was to be used to finance a transaction between Mr W and 
G. That is because Mr W says  and I accept  that the loan was applied for on Hitachis 
website by Gs salesman filling in the online application on Mr Ws behalf. That simply 
cannot be enough. I will explain why.
Firstly, Hitachi would not have known that it was the salesman and not Mr W making the 
application, so this can scarcely be said to constitute an arrangement between Hitachi and 
G. Its just Hitachi publishing a website for anyone to use, and Gs salesman using it 
anonymously, without Hitachi knowing. I also would not call it a pre-existing arrangement, 
because it is just someone spontaneously using a website. I am certain that Parliament must 
have envisaged a closer connection than that between creditor and supplier when it enacted 
section 12. It meant a business relationship.
Secondly, there is no evidence that Hitachi was told what the loan was for, or that G was 
involved. Hitachi denies that it knew that the loan was to be used to finance a transaction 
between Mr W and G, and I have seen no evidence to contradict this.
For these reasons, I do not think that Mr Ws loan fell within section 12(c). It follows that 
neither section 56 nor section 75 applies to his purchase, and that Hitachi was not wrong to reject his claim for compensation. And I do not think it would be fair or reasonable of me if I  
still held Hitachi liable for what G did in the absence of some law making it liable.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman