DRN-3340066
The complaint
S, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to open a foreign currency 
account on its behalf. 
S is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr K.
What happened
In around mid-July 2021, S enquired with HSBC about opening a foreign currency account. 
In early September 2021, Mr K complained to HSBC on behalf of S. He said hed been 
calling HSBC over the past two months but that he was either put on hold or couldnt find 
any help. S eventually opened the foreign currency account with an alternative lender.
Before this service became involved, HSBC offered S £30 for call costs. The investigator 
considered Ss complaint and recommended that HSBC pay an additional £70. HSBC 
accepted this recommendation but S did not.
Mr K doesnt understand why HSBC was able to open a business bank account for S in a 
matter of weeks yet couldnt do the same for the foreign currency account. Mr K is 
concerned that HSBC either never sent S documentation to confirm that the foreign currency 
account had been opened or didnt give reasons why it couldnt be opened. Mr K says HSBC 
kept asking him to call back without giving further information.
Mr K says he spent around 30 hours with no account to show for it. Mr K suggested a 
compensation figure of around £3,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ss complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to do 
this. I should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the 
businesses we cover. We resolve individual complaints  it would be for the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority  to make decisions about the way in which businesses work.
I do want to make the point that Mr K as director is a separate legal entity from S. This is Ss 
complaint, and only S is eligible to make it. 
Although Mr K had to chase HSBC several times between first enquiring about the foreign 
currency account and then going through the application process, I consider £100 
compensation fairly recognises the inconvenience this caused for S. This is because even 
though Mr K couldnt always speak to HSBC, it did return some of his calls. I also note that 
some delays in handling Ss application, may have been due to the disruption caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
I understand that Mr K wouldve preferred to speak to the relevant team directly but HSBC 
says this wasnt possible so it made outbound calls instead. Its unfortunate that Mr K 
couldnt accept some of the calls, but I cant find that this was the fault of HSBC. 
After Mr K uploaded further information in support of Ss application for the foreign currency 
account, HSBC contacted him in mid-October 2021, leaving a message for him to call back. 
As HSBC didnt hear back, no further action was taken in relation to Ss foreign currency 
account. 
Mr K has told his hourly rate but we dont generally award compensation on an hourly or 
daily rate. Instead, I make my award based on the inconvenience and impact the delays had 
on S as a limited company.
Although I appreciate it wouldve been better if HSBC couldve opened Ss account in a 
timely fashion, it appears S found an alternative so I cant say that it lost out financially as a 
result. Its not unexpected to experience a certain level of inconvenience when dealing with 
businesses and it was never a foregone conclusion that HSBC would agree to open the 
account for S. So, overall, I consider that £100 is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience 
S suffered because of the delays.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay S £100 compensation if it hasnt done so already. For the 
avoidance of doubt, this figure includes the £30 HSBC had previously offered to pay.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should pay S a total of £100 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman