DRN-2197446
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited has turned down a water damage claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a home insurance policy insured by esure in March 2019. In September 2019, 
he noticed some damp in one of the rooms in his home. It got worse over the next couple of 
months and Mr S asked a damp specialist to come to his home. The specialist carried out 
works for rising damp. They also identified rot and fungus growth to some of the flooring, 
together with puddles of water. The damp specialist thought the water was coming in 
through the wall, the roof and the chimney stack. Mr S made a claim for the cost of putting all 
of the damage right.
Esure appointed an assessor to investigate the damage at Mr S home. The assessor 
thought that the fact there was water getting into the sub-floor over time, which had caused 
the timbers to rot showed the damage had happened over time. They considered the 
damage mightve pre-dated Mr S buying the policy. And that the damp issues mightve been 
down to the failure of the damp proof course. They didnt think the damp was caused by a 
one-off event the policy covered. And they concluded that some water was also getting in 
through the chimney flashings, which it found had degraded. Overall, the assessor felt the 
damage was down to wear and tear and had happened over time.
Based on the surveyors report, esure turned down Mr S claim. It said wear and tear was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. It felt the presence of mould spores and fungus 
showed the damage had happened over time. It said it was for Mr S to show he had a valid 
claim on his policy.
Mr S was unhappy with esures decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt the evidence from Mr 
S own expert, the damp specialist, had suggested the chimney damage had been ongoing 
over time. And she didnt think the claim could be considered as a flood or an escape of 
water. Overall, she felt it was fair for esure to turn down Mr S claim.
Mr S disagreed. He felt the water damage should be considered as flood damage, because 
flood water had come into his property following a build-up of water. The summer of 2019 
had been one of the wettest summers on record and his area had seen the highest amount 
of rainfall. He felt this had been a contributory factor to the damp damage. He accepted that 
the damage to the chimney stacks wasnt covered. But he said he felt the remainder of the 
works should be covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for esure to turn down Mr S claim. Ill explain why.
First, I understand Mr S has now accepted that any damage to the chimney stacks or related 
to the chimney stacks isnt covered. So I havent considered this point in detail. I do note 
though that Mr S own damp specialist, as well as esures assessor, referred to wear and 
tear to the flashing and the pointing, as well as broken mortar. The assessor concluded 
water was getting in through the flashings. So Im also persuaded the chimney stack 
damage and internal water damage related to it arent covered by the policy terms.
Ive then gone on to think about the remainder of the damp damage which Mr S considers 
should be covered. Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy 
terms. For a claim to be paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the 
policy  which we generally call an insured event.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Esure appointed an assessor to investigate what had caused the water damage at Mr S 
home.
The assessor didnt think the damage was down to something the policy covered. Ive looked 
carefully at the policy terms to check what insured events esure covers. The applicable 
events would seem to be storm or flood or escape of water, as those relate to water 
damage. 
Escapes of water claims are only covered if the water escapes from a tank, pipes, fixed 
equipment, appliances etc. Theres no available expert evidence to suggest that this was the 
cause of the damp damage. I appreciate Mr S considers the claim should be dealt with 
under the flood cover. The policy defines what esure means by flood. It says its an invasion 
of the property by a large volume of water caused by a rapid build-up or sudden release of 
water from outside the Buildings.
Its clear water has been getting into Mr S sub-floor and causing damage. So I understand 
why he feels this would be a rapid build-up of water. But I dont agree that water leaking into 
Mr S property would be classed as a flood. Hes confirmed there wasnt any flooding in his 
local area at the time and the available expert evidence suggests that the water was getting 
in over time. Mr S own observations of the water damage getting worse between September 
and November would also suggest the water build-up wasnt rapid or a sudden-release. 
Esure looked at the weather records around the time Mr S made his claim to establish 
whether the damage had been caused by storm. It noted there were high wind speeds and 
exceptional rainfall in mid-November 2019 But Mr S had told it hed noticed the damage a 
couple of months beforehand and his damp specialist had already found the damage Mr S 
had been claiming for. So it didnt think the storm conditions had caused it and based on all 
Ive seen, there dont seem to have been storm conditions at the time of the claim. It 
appointed an assessor though to inspect the damage to try and establish the cause and 
whether or not it was covered by the policy. I think this was a reasonable and appropriate 
response.
The assessors report said: The insureds comments relating to the floor joists would 
suggest there has been an ongoing ingress into the sub-floor void which has led to a degree 
of decay to the joists and the floorboards. This would indicate the damage pre-dates the 
policy inception date...The internal damage to the walls may have been related to a failure of 
the damp proof coursethe standing water in the sub-floor indicates there are still ongoing issues. There was no evidence the internal damage was related to the operation of a policy 
peril.
So the assessor didnt think the internal damage was down to something the policy covered. 
Ive also thought about what Mr S damp specialist found in their report. It appears they 
carried out dye tests to try and establish how the water was getting in. The report said: The 
coloured water was seeping into the cavity via the poor broken mortar below ground level. A 
drain specialist ruled out leaking drains.
The damp specialists report also doesnt suggest that they felt the damage was down to one 
of the insured events Ive referred to above or anything else the policy covered. It appears to 
suggest that water was getting in, at least partly, through broken mortar, which seems likely 
to be a maintenance issue. 
Based on the findings of both the assessor and the damp specialist, it seems most likely that 
the damage was down to wear and tear and had happened over time. The policy specifically 
excludes damage which is caused by wear and tear, or by damage which happens 
gradually, over time (including damp, wet or dry rot or fungi.) 
Overall, I dont think Mr S has provided enough evidence to persuade me its most likely the 
damage was down to an insured event the policy covered. And I think the available evidence 
suggests the claim was specifically excluded by the policy terms. This means, while Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr S, I think it was fair for esure to turn down his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman