DRN-3784509
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red 
Sands) have handled a claim he made on his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S dog was involved in a road accident and sadly died. He made a claim on 
his pet insurance policy with Red Sands for the related veterinary costs which was declined. 
Red Sands said that one of the conditions of the policy, regarding keeping your pet safe, 
wasnt met, so the claim couldnt be accepted. 
Unhappy with its claim decision, Mr S complained to Red Sands. On 4 September 2022, 
Red Sands issued its final response letter confirming that it wasnt upholding Mr S 
complaint. In summary it said that, the claim had been fairly declined, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.  
Mr S didnt accept Red Sands decision on his complaint about brought it to this service. He 
said that if his claim cant be covered then he feels that the policy was mis-sold and would 
like a full refund of the premiums.
In particular, Mr S made the following points:
1. The policy is marketed and reads on the face of it as providing comprehensive cover 
for accidents involving an insured pet;
2. There was no intention for his dog to be allowed to escape, and all reasonable steps 
had been taken to keep him safe;
3. The tragic event is clearly an accident and therefore should be covered by the policy; 
4. There is no mention of the exclusion that Red Sands is seeking to rely on, in the 
summary document, or sections 1 and 2 of the policy under which Mr S is seeking to 
claim;
5. The section of the policy that the exclusion quoted by Red Sands, seems to be 
referring to is 10.1.4, which Mr S says is confusing to read and apply in the context of 
an accident, and makes no reference to sections 1 and 2 which he is claiming under; 
and 
6. If hed been clearly told that the accident cover only applied if the pet was inside a 
secure place or on a lead then he would not have chosen that policy. Mr S believes 
that it is reasonable, that the main foreseeable risk to a young healthy dog like his, is 
an accident taking place when they are not in a secure place or on a lead.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and issued her view not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, she said that she didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold and after 
carefully considering the available evidence, she felt Red Sands had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy in declining the claim.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands explained in its final response letter, that the policy required the owner to ensure 
that any places their pet visited was secure, and it said the owner should take steps to stop 
their pet from escaping, especially when opening doors. Red Sands said it had looked at 
photos of the address Mr S dog was at, when the incident happened, and had seen a 
number of safety measures that could have been taken to prevent Mr S dog from escaping 
onto the road. These included an internal door, a porch, and a gate, which were all left open 
when the accident occured. Red Sands therefore concluded that not all reasonable steps 
had been taken to keep Mr S dog safe. 
Mr S said section 2.2 and 2.3 of the policy terms and conditions set out the specific 
conditions and exclusions of the cover which are relevant to his claim. The reason for 
rejecting the claim, set out in Red Sands correspondence with him isnt included in those 
sections. As the veterinary fees incurred come within the policy limit, Mr S believes they 
ought to be paid under his claim. 
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions and note that section 10, General 
Conditions paragraph 10.1.4 says:
You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area 
in which a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured 
and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape.
Section 11 of the policy terms and conditions, General Exclusions, paragraph 11.14 says 
We shall not be liable under this policy unless you have complied with all the terms, 
conditions and endorsements of this policy.
Having considered the policy terms, I agree that the policy is intended to cover the 
circumstances relevant to that Mr S claim. So, the question for me to decide is whether Red 
Sands decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and conditions, and fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S case. 
While I understand Mr S view that the exclusion ought to have been included in section two 
of the policy, I am satisfied that it was clearly out in the terms and conditions. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Red Sands to expect the terms and conditions to be read in their entirety. 
And, in Mr S case, where the policy terms and conditions were provided to him two weeks 
prior to the policy being taken out, I think there was sufficient time for him to do so if he 
wished to. Having considered the relevant paragraphs in section 10 and section 11 of the 
policy terms, while they dont expressly refer to a pet visiting another property, I think their 
meaning is clear. I also think its reasonable to include such provisions in a pet insurance 
policy. 
So, I conclude that Red Sands decision to decline Mr S claim was made in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive next considered whether it was reasonable in Mr S 
case. 
Mr S dog was visiting a property that wasnt his own when the accident happened. And even with the door being opened, there were two other measures that could have been taken to 
keep Mr S dog safe. Also, in his complaint form, Mr S said that its reasonable that the main 
foreseeable risk to a young healthy dog like his, is an accident taking place when they are 
not in a secure place or on a lead. So, I cant say it wouldnt have been foreseeable, that if 
the door, porch and gate were open, Mr S dog might attempt to run outside. Taking all of 
these factors into account, I think Red Sands decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im therefore not upholding this element of Mr S complaint. 
Im also not upholding Mr S complaint that the policy was mis-sold. As our investigator 
explained, Mr S purchased the policy via the policy administrators website on 9 June 2020. 
No advice was given to Mr S about the sale. Rather, the information was sent to him to 
review two weeks prior to the start date of the policy. And having considered the information 
provided, Im satisfied that it was fair, clear and not misleading.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman