DRN-4220670
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited decided to close her bank account.
What happened
In August 2022, Citibank emailed Ms L informing her that theyd recently reviewed her 
account and felt they were no longer best placed to serve her banking and investment 
needs. They said theyd decided to close her account and gave her two months notice.
Ms L complained to Citibank and asked them to reconsider their decision due to her 
circumstances. She explained she required the account as she was living abroad, and her 
pension was set up to be credited to her account. She also asked for an extension on the 
account closure date.
Citibank explained they wouldnt be reconsidering Ms Ls request to retain her as a customer 
but agreed to provide an extension of around a month before closing her account. Unhappy 
with this, Ms L referred her complaint to our service. She explained she was having difficulty 
opening an account with another bank either abroad or within the UK. 
Our investigator asked Citibank to explain their reasons for closing Ms Ls account. Despite 
our requests, Citibank refused to provide this information. Our investigator said that Citibank 
were allowed to close Ms Ls account at any time by providing two months notice, so he was 
satisfied they followed the terms and conditions. 
However, as Citibank didnt share the reasons for closing Ms Ls account with our service, 
our investigator couldnt be satisfied theyd treated Ms L fairly. So, he asked Citibank to pay 
Ms L £50 compensation. Ms L didnt respond to our investigators view. Citibank disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2023, and I made the following findings:
Banks are entitled to end their relationship with a customer as long as they do so 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. Unless theres a very good reason, 
our service wont usually interfere with this decision and say the bank must keep a 
customer or compensate a customer whose account has been closed.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ls account says that Citibank can close her account 
at any time by giving her not less than two months personal notice. Citibank gave Ms 
L more than two months notice of their decision to close her account. So, Im 
satisfied they acted in line with the terms and conditions.
I appreciate Ms L wants Citibank to reopen her account given her circumstances. But 
as explained, Citibank are within their rights to end their relationship with Ms L, just 
as Ms L couldve decided to no longer bank with them, if she had wished. 
Ive thought about whether Citibank have treated Ms L fairly in deciding to close her 
account.  I agree Citibank arent obliged to tell Ms L the reasons why they closed her 
account, but they need to provide our service with this information to help us decide if 
they exercised their commercial decision to close Ms Ls account legitimately and 
free from any prejudice or discrimination.
Following my involvement, Citibank have shared their reasons for closing Ms Ls 
account.  Having reviewed their rationale, Im satisfied Citibanks decision to close 
Ms Ls account was reached legitimately. They also agreed to give Ms L an 
extension on the account closure date, which they didnt have to do. So, I cant agree 
Ms L was treated unfairly.
I know Ms L finds herself in a difficult situation but since I dont think Citibank have 
done anything wrong in closing her account, I cant fairly ask them to compensate her 
for the inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
Neither Ms L nor Citibank responded within the deadline given. Citibank didnt need to reply 
as I wasnt asking them to do anything.
Since there are no new points or comments from either party, there isnt anything else for me 
to consider. Im satisfied with the findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from the 
outcome I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman