DRN-1695851
 
The complaint
Miss D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Halifaxs records show 
that the policy was added to Miss Ds credit card account when she applied for the card in 
person, at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ds case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I 
thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ds signed application form for the credit card. It includes a 
box to mark if the applicant wishes to take out Credit Card Repayment Insurance 
(PPI). Theres a cross in the box to indicate that Miss D wished to take the cover. It 
looks as if the cross may have been printed, along with the other details on the form. 
But I think its more likely than not that this followed a discussion between Miss D and 
Halifax's adviser, and the box was marked because Miss D said she wished to take 
the cover. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think it would have been clear to Miss D that the 
PPI was optional, and I think she chose to take it.
 
Halifax has told us it would have recommended the PPI to Miss D. This means it had 
a responsibility to check that it was suitable for her. But Ive seen nothing to make me think it was unsuitable, based on the limited information I have about Miss Ds 
circumstances at the time. 
 
If Miss D had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have helped with her monthly credit card payments until the 
balance when she claimed had been cleared, or until she returned to work- 
whichever was earlier. 
 
The credit card application form shows that Miss D was working when she took out 
the PPI. Weve asked more than once for details of any sick pay or redundancy pay 
Miss D was entitled to at the time, but we havent received them. But, based on our 
general experience of typical sick pay entitlements, I think its likely, on balance, that 
the policy would potentially have paid out for longer than Miss D would have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay or redundancy pay that Miss D received. So she could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldn't have had to use any savings she may 
have had to make her credit card repayments.
 
I accept that its possible the information Halifax gave Miss D about the PPI wasn't as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Miss D chose to 
take out the policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on the limited 
information Miss Ds provided, it doesn't look as if she was affected by the main 
things the policy didn't cover  - for example unusual working arrangements or existing 
medical conditions. I acknowledge that Miss Ds told us about two medical conditions 
for which shes taken significant time off work. But shes told us that they were 
diagnosed many years after she took out the PPI, so this doesn't change my view.
 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Miss D was 
paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances 
changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover. So taking everything into 
account, I think its unlikely Miss D would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have taken out the 
policy.
 
This means Halifax doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because:
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because Halifax didn't tell Miss 
D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI wasn't mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) doesn't have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D. But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Miss D any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman