DRN-3549157
The complaint
Ms B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined part of her claim against her travel
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Ms B has an annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. On 9 March 2020, she
went on a trip and intended to return on 21 March 2020. The trip was a package holiday.
On 17 March 2020, Ms Bs trip was curtailed because of restrictions imposed in
response to covid-19 by the government of her destination country. Ms Bs travel
provider refused to settle her claim, so she made a claim against her travel policy in
relation to unused costs and additional flight costs.
In July 2020, Great Lakes settled Ms Bs additional flight costs but didnt agree to pay
unused costs. It said that those costs were recoverable from Ms Bs travel provider
under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR).
Ms B complained about that. In Great Lakes final response to Ms B in October 2020, it
said that if the travel provider wasnt in a position to refund Ms Bs costs, she should
complain to the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA). It provided a link to ABTA
and said that if Ms Bs complaint to ABTA wasnt successful, it would review her claim.
Ms B wasnt happy about that and complained to this service.
This service considered that complaint. In October 2021, an investigator didnt
recommend that Ms Bs complaint be upheld. She said that Great Lakes hadnt acted
unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim in part and in relying on the exclusion
relating to irrecoverable costs. The investigator said that Ms B should approach ABTA or
the Association of Independent Travel Operators (AITO) to try and recover her costs and
if that wasnt successful, return to Great Lakes.
In November 2021, Ms B complained to ABTA. ABTA said that shed contacted it too
late. It said that it could only deal with the matter in its arbitration scheme with the travel
providers agreement, which wasnt forthcoming here. So, ABTA couldnt assist Ms B
further.
In January 2022, Ms B contacted Great Lakes again, but it declined her claim. It said that
in October 2020, it told Ms B to contact ABTA, but she didnt do so until November 2021,
which was too late. Great Lakes said that if Ms B had referred the matter to ABTA in time
and been unsuccessful in recovering her costs, it would have reconsidered her claim.
Great Lakes said that Ms Bs delay in contacting ABTA led to her claim.
Ms B wants Great Lakes to deal with her claim. She says that shes now shown that her
outstanding costs are irrecoverable from elsewhere. Ms B said that in its final response
in October 2020, Great Lakes didnt mention any time limit for referral to ABTA. Ms B
says that she was very dissatisfied with Great Lakes response and delays at that point,
so thought that its reference to ABTA was another delaying tactic. She said that
Great Lakes also referred her to this service, which she pursued.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She recommended that
Great Lakes settle Ms Bs claim. The investigator was satisfied that what happened here
is an insured event and that Ms B had shown that she cant recover her costs. She said
that even if Ms B had contacted ABTA earlier, there was no guarantee that she would
have obtained a refund. That was because ABTAs approach to curtailment was less
certain than its approach to cancellation. The investigator thought that Ms B had taken
reasonable steps in bringing her initial complaint to this service and waiting for a
response.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
Ms B prejudiced its position by not following its advice to contact ABTA in
October 2020 and waited over a year to do so.
Ms B hasnt proved that the costs were not recoverable from any other source.
It doesnt accept that Ms B was less likely to recover her costs via ABTA because
her claim was for curtailment, rather than cancellation. 
Ms Bs costs were recoverable under the PTR and she didnt pursue that within a
reasonable time.
Ms B said that by October 2020, she had no confidence in Great Lakes competence or
ability to act correctly or treat her fairly. That was because she was unhappy with the
result of its investigation and its poor service, which included delays, failure to
communicate and an error in calculating the part of her claim which it did settle. Ms B
said that she had friends in the same position as her whose claims had been settled by
their insurers, which added to her sense that Great Lakes was trying to avoid its
responsibilities. Thats why she made the initial complaint to this service.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision
On 1 June 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint for slightly different reasons than had been explained 
before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Abandonment 
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-paid 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered for any 
additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cut short your trip. This must be 
as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside of your control, which was 
unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of booking your trip, whichever is 
the later.What is not covered [] 
[]
22. Anything mentioned in the General exclusions on pages 53 and 54.
General exclusions that apply to the whole policy
[]
12. Costs recoverable elsewhere.
General conditions that apply to the whole policy
[]
7. We are entitled to take over and carry out in your name the defence or settlement of 
any legal action. We may also take proceedings at our own expense and for our own 
benefit, but in your name, to recover any payment we have made under this policy to 
anyone else.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that Great Lakes treated Ms B fairly and reasonably in declining her claim. I 
say that because:
An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the 
terms and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to 
show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
If the event is covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set 
out in the policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Its common ground that Ms Bs claim falls under the abandonment provisions 
of her policy. Great Lakes seeks to rely on the exclusion which says that the 
policy doesnt cover costs recoverable elsewhere. The central question for me 
to decide is whether its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the 
exclusion Ive set out above. I dont think it is and Ill explain why.
ABTAs e-mail exchanges with Ms B in November 2021 and January 2022 
show that it cant assist Ms B as she had referred the matter to them too late 
and the travel provider didnt agree that it could deal with the matter. So, Ms B 
has shown that she cant recover her losses via ABTA.
Great Lakes says that Ms B prejudiced its position by not following its advice to 
contact ABTA in October 2020. In the particular circumstances of this case, I 
dont think that produces a fair and reasonable result.
Ive looked carefully at Great Lakes e-mail to Ms B in October 2020, when it 
gave its final response to her initial complaint. Great Lakes referred Ms B to 
ABTA and provided a link to further information about that. But it didnt draw    
Ms Bs attention to any relevant time limits in taking the matter up with ABTA. In 
that e-mail, it also gave Ms B information about this service, including the 
relevant time limit, which its obliged to do. On the basis of the information Ms B 
had, I dont think she was wrong for pursuing the matter with this service in the 
first instance.Unfortunately, by the time Ms B referred the matter to ABTA, it was too late for it 
to deal with it without the travel providers consent, which wasnt forthcoming. 
Based on this services experience of similar complaints, I think its far from 
certain that Ms B would have been able to recover her costs via ABTA even if 
she had referred the matter to them earlier. Thats because the application of 
the PTR to curtailment cases is relatively untested in the civil courts. Based on 
what Ive seen, its likely that Ms Bs only remaining alternative is to take legal 
action to recover her outstanding costs.
In October 2020, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
issued guidance to insurers dealing with policyholders who havent been able to 
obtain a refund from their travel provider. This guidance is called Finalised 
guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes 
to refunds. The guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by 
the policy terms and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA 
expects the terms of travel insurance policies to be interpreted. In particular, 
theres relevant guidance relating to the interpretation of terms requiring a 
policyholder to mitigate loss. Essentially, the guidance says that a consumer 
shouldnt have to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate loss and that the FCA 
would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that a consumer would need 
to go to court to recover their money.
In the particular circumstances here  where Ms B has now shown that her 
costs arent recoverable elsewhere  I think it would be unreasonable to expect 
Ms B to take further action to recover her losses.
If Great Lakes considers that theres a good legal chance of recovering a refund 
from the travel provider, the terms of Ms Bs policy means that its open to  
Great Lakes to take legal proceedings in Ms Bs name against the travel 
provider in order to recover monies it will have paid out to Ms B in settling her 
claim.
Taking into account the overall circumstances of this case, I dont think that 
declining the claim leaves Ms B in a fair position. Theres an insured event and, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Great 
Lakes to rely on the exclusion to which its referred. It follows, that Great Lakes 
should settle Ms Bs claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B accepted my provisional decision. Great Lakes reiterated that Ms B prejudiced its 
position by not following the advice it gave about recovering her loss. It said:
There was a year between it issuing its final decision in October 2020 and the 
closure of Ms Bs initial complaint at this service on 22 October 2021.
It was unaware of a time limit for referral to ABTA, so it couldnt have told Ms B 
about it and, in any event, Ms Bs actions suggest that she wouldnt have 
followed its advice. 
It doubts that curtailment cases have been less successful with ABTA.Ms B hasnt shown that her costs were unrecoverable. She has not been able to 
recover her costs because she didnt refer the matter to ABTA within a 
reasonable time and preferred to wait for a decision from this service.
Its doubtful that it would be cost effective for it to take legal action to recover this 
loss as costs would likely exceed the claim value with no guarantee of recovery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Great Lakes has said in response to my provisional decision. But I 
remain of the view that, on balance, its not fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the 
exclusion to which its referred in declining Ms Bs claim. 
It remains the case that Ms B wasnt aware of any time limit in referring the matter to ABTA. 
Great Lakes said that it didnt tell Ms B about the time limit, as it wasnt aware of it. It doesnt 
seem reasonable for Great Lakes to expect Ms B to be aware of something it didnt know 
itself. 
I dont think that further speculation about the likelihood of success of any claim Ms B might 
have made to ABTA assists us here, as it doesnt alter the outcome of the complaint. Ms B 
didnt refer the matter to ABTA and, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont think she was wrong for pursuing the matter with this service in the first instance.   
Im satisfied that Ms B has shown that her costs are not recoverable elsewhere. Shes 
provided her exchanges with ABTA which show that it wont deal with the matter. So, Ms B 
cant recover her costs via that route. 
I appreciate that it may not be cost effective for Great Lakes to take legal proceedings in 
Ms Bs name against the travel provider in order to recover monies it will have paid out 
to Ms B in settling her claim. That is, of course, a matter for Great Lakes.
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I find that Great Lakes didnt treat Ms B fairly or reasonably in 
relying on the exclusion to which its referred in declining her claim. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Great Lakes should settle Ms Bs claim under the remaining terms of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint. In order to put things right,                 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman