DRN-2670076
The complaint
Mr G complains about the charges he was invoiced by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) at the end of his car hire agreement.
What happened
Mr G signed a three year car hire agreement with VWFS in November 2015. At the end of 
the agreement, he received an invoice charging him for additional days car hire and for 
damages to the car. Mr G says he told the car collection company that hed left the car with 
the supplying garage.
VWFS said it was Mr Gs responsibility to return the car to VWFS so the charge for extra 
days hire remains payable. It reviewed the damage charges and agreed to reduce these by 
£627.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the car remained Mr Gs responsibility until it had been collected by VWFS.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I thought some of the charges were fair, but I thought VWFS should reduce the additional 
days hire charge. I set out my thoughts in a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to provide any further comment. I said:
Charges for damage
The terms and conditions of the hire contract say:
You must keep the Vehicle in good repair and condition. You will be responsible for 
any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle (including repairs) except through fair 
wear and tear
An independent inspector checked the car when it had been collected and noted 
damage amounting to £1,032.92. VWFS reviewed these charges and waived the 
charge for a spare key. It asked Mr G to pay £900.92.
When Mr G disputed this charge, VWFS reviewed the damage again. It agreed to 
reduce the charge by £627 because it didnt think the photographic evidence clearly 
showed the chargeable damage.
The remaining charge which VWFS says Mr G must pay is:
Scratch to front bumper £110.40
Missing cover for right front door handle £127.52
Dent to right front door £36.00
Total: £273.92
Ive considered the photographs and I find that the items listed are outside of the 
BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines. So I think its fair for VWFS to charge for 
these items.
Additional mileage charge
The hire agreement says the car cannot be driven more than the maximum total 
mileage and that any mileage above that will incur a charge. The maximum total 
mileage in Mr Gs agreement was 45,000 and the mileage when the car was 
inspected was 55,032. This should have resulted in a charge of £902.88, but VWFS 
did not charge Mr G for this.
Additional days hire
The terms and conditions of the hire contract say:
When the Hiring Period ends..you must return the Vehicle to us immediately, at 
such address as we may reasonably require.
Arrangements were made for collection of the car, but Mr G wasnt present when 
VWFSs agent called at the agreed time. Hes recently told us this was due to a 
family emergency. He also told us that he let VWFS know, and that he told it he 
would leave the car with the supplying garage. Unfortunately, theres no record of 
that call and its possible  in the middle of dealing with a family emergency  that 
Mr G didnt get around to making a call to VWFS or its agent.
I dont think its unreasonable that Mr G thought the best thing to do following the 
cancelled collection arrangement was to leave the car with the supplying garage. But 
Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that Mr G was told at the point of supply that 
he could do that. And Ive not seen evidence that VWFS agreed that he could do this.
According to VWFSs records, the first time it was made aware by Mr G that the car 
was at the supplying garage was on 27 February 2019. I can see that, over the next 
few weeks, VWFS had difficulty locating the car  the supplying garage said it didnt 
have the car. VWFS asked its agent to trace the car and it was successful in finding it 
at the garage where Mr G said hed left it. This process took some time as the car 
wasnt collected until 17 April.
Following a recent request to VWFS to ask how it had calculated its additional days 
hire charge, it identified that this has been miscalculated. It told us it has now 
reduced the charge by £492.79 to £2,391.02. This covers the period to 17 April 2019 
when it collected the car.
But I think it should reduce this charge further. I have taken into account that VWFS 
never agreed for the car to be left at the supplying garage; and that the garage said it 
didnt have the car when it clearly did. But Mr G had told VWFS  on 27 February  
where the car could be collected from. And he wasnt responsible for the 
misinformation given by the supplying garage. I dont think its fair that he should be 
charged for hire after 27 February 2019.
I think VWFS should reduce the additional hire charge by a further 49 days, to cover 
the period 28 February (the day after Mr G told it where the car was located) to 17 
April (the day VWFS collected the car) inclusive. This should leave £1,496.68 for 
Mr G to pay.I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comment or evidence, but neither 
replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should reduce its 
invoice for additional days hire by a further 49 days.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman