DRN-1564229
 
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the cash settlement Zurich Insurance PLC has offered her following a 
claim on her home insurance, and with the service she got during her claim.
What happened
Ms M claimed on her home insurance after a boiler leak damaged her flooring. An assessor 
inspected the damage and Zurich accepted the claim. 
Zurich instructed its contractor to quote for the repair work. Its quotes were considerably 
lower than the one Ms M got from her contractor. Ms M wanted to use her own contractor, 
she says because she had bespoke flooring that needed specialist fitting. More recently 
shes also said she wanted the work done in school holidays. She says her contractor could 
do the work then.
Zurich agreed to Ms Ms request for a cash settlement. But its final offer of just over £6,500 
was much lower than Ms Ms contractors quote of just under £10,000. Unhappy with the 
offer and with the service shed had from Zurich during her claim, Ms M complained. 
Zurich stood by its decision on the cash settlement, saying it could only pay Ms M what it 
would cost its contractor to do the repairs. But it agreed the service Ms M had had wasnt 
what it wouldve expected and it couldve communicated with her better. For this, it offered 
Ms M £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms M complained to us. The investigator who looked at Ms Ms 
complaint didnt uphold it. He didnt think Zurich had acted incorrectly or unreasonably. Ms M 
disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give her help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Ms Ms home insurance policy. This says it will either (a) pay the value of 
the damaged property at the time of the damage or (b) reinstate, replace or repair it. This is 
a standard term in insurance policies. Zurich chose to replace Ms Ms flooring. I think it was 
fair and reasonable and within the policy terms for Zurich to make this decision. Ive also 
looked at the quotes from Zurichs contractor. I can see its noted a specialist contractor is 
needed to renew the flooring. So I think its likely that, if Zurichs contractor had carried out 
the work, it wouldve put Ms M back in the position she was in before her flooring was 
damaged.But Ms M wanted her own contractor to do the work, for reasons Ive already noted. I think 
Zurich was right to agree to this. But where an insurer has offered to replace a damage item 
and its policyholder wants a cash settlement instead, our approach is to say the insurer is 
only required to pay the consumer the cost the insurer would have to pay. And this is often 
less than the cost to the consumer. Thats because most insurers have established 
relationships with networks of building companies. And we dont think in principle theres 
anything unfair about these agreements. They often mean the insurer has pre-agreed rates 
with the builders that tend to be below the market price and that can lower the cost to the 
insurer.
I think this is what has happened in Ms Ms case: Zurich could get the same work done for 
less than Ms M. Because of this, and because Ms M had asked for a cash settlement, I dont 
think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in making the final cash settlement offer it did 
to Ms M. I understand it was the maximum amount its contractor quoted. I also think Zurich 
has acted fairly and reasonably in paying Ms M £150 in compensation for the service issues 
she had when she claimed
Ms M has recently said she also wanted her own contractor to do the work because it could 
be done in the school holidays. Weve asked Zurich about this and it says its contractor has 
no record of any conversations with Ms M about this. In any case, the contractor says it had 
specialist sub-contractors it could use if its own specialists werent available. So this doesnt 
change my conclusions on this complaint. 
Overall, I think Zurich has treated Ms M fairly. I understand its already paid her the final 
cash settlement it offered her as well as the compensation of £150 Ive referred to. I dont 
make any further award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman