DRN-2713165
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Lantern Debt Recovery are chasing her for debts she doesnt 
recognise.
What happened
Lantern have been chasing Miss T for several short-term loans. The loans were taken out 
between 2013 and 2016, and were sold to Lantern over 2017 and 2018.
Miss T says she has no recollection of the loan amounts, and couldnt find them on her bank 
statements. She was worried the loans were fraudulent.
I sent Miss T and Lantern a provisional decision on 24 February 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
According to Lanterns records and the credit agreements, the loans were taken out under 
Miss Ts name at her genuine address, using an email address shes confirmed is also 
genuine. 
Ive gone through Miss Ts historic bank statements and can see that the loans in question 
were paid into her bank account, at the same amounts and dates that Lantern provided. 
I can also see that Miss T made some repayments to the original creditors at the time, which 
I dont think she would have done if the loans werent hers.
Ill forward the statements to Miss T so she can also have a look, and Ill also forward her a 
table of the relevant entries.
I think its understandable if Miss T no longer remembers taking out these loans, because of 
the time thats passed. But based on the information I have, it looks like we can be satisfied 
that these were indeed Miss Ts loans, which would mean that its fair for Lantern to pursue 
her for the remaining balances.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 March 2021. Lantern didnt add anything further. Miss T only added that Lantern had 
already resumed pursuing her for the debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments regarding the legitimacy of the 
debts. So having reconsidered that point, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that 
these were indeed Miss Ts loans, though I can understand if she didnt remember them 
given the time that had passed.
I understand Lantern had already started pursuing Miss T for the debts before I made the 
final decision. That wasnt ideal, though they werent strictly forbidden from doing so. Now 
that Ive made my final decision, it means Lantern will be able to pursue Miss T for these 
loans  so Id advise both parties to get together and work out some affordable repayments. 
I hope I can assure Miss T that Lantern are still required to treat her fairly, and she can 
always come back to our service as a separate case if she subsequently feels they arent 
doing so.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman