DRN-1883541
The complaint 
Ms G complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under her legal expenses policy. 
Background
Ms G entered into a contract with a building firm to carry out work on her home, including an 
extension and loft conversion. Due to problems she experienced with the builders, Ms G 
made a claim on her policy to pursue action for breach of contract. She said the builder had 
been asking for money and threatening to leave the job unfinished. In addition, some 
jewellery had gone missing and she suspected the builders had stolen it.
DAS declined the claim. It said the policy specifically excludes contract disputes relating to 
building/extending a property. So, it didnt think Ms Gs claim was covered. In addition, it said 
the stolen jewellery would be a criminal matter, which isnt something the policy provides 
cover for.
Ms G disagreed. She said the contract of works were split into three  the extension; the loft 
conversion and some internal refurbishment works. She didnt think the internal 
refurbishment works were caught by the policy exclusion and therefore DAS should consider 
the breach of that contract. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied the building exclusion applied. 
He explained that when pursuing a breach of contract claim, the contract needed to be 
looked at as a whole. And as it contained elements of building and extending a property, he 
felt the exclusion had fairly been applied here. 
As Ms G didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ms Gs policy covers her for contract disputes defined as a contractual dispute arising from 
an agreement or an alleged agreement which you have entered into forthe buying or hiring 
of any goods or services or the selling of any goods. But that doesnt mean shes covered 
for all contract disputes that fall into this description. The cover is subject to exclusions. 
DAS has relied on the exclusion which states there is no cover for anything relating to the 
building, converting, extending, altering, renovating or demolishing of your home (this does 
not apply to common home improvements, such as installing double glazing or replacement 
kitchens).
Ms Gs agreement with the building firm was to build an extension, convert the loft and carry 
out some refurbishment work to the house generally. She was provided with three separate 
quotes for the works, but all of the works were being completed at the same time.  
From what Ive seen, I think DAS has applied the policy exclusion fairly to Ms Gs claim. I 
say so because Ms G has entered into a contract to carry out significant building works to 
her home; and its clear from the policy term that this isnt something the policy will cover. 
And whilst one element of the overall work relates to internal refurbishment works, I havent 
seen anything to support that Ms Gs concerns with the building firm relate solely to this 
specific quotation. And even if they did,  the works could well amount to more than common 
home improvements. In particular, Ive noted that the quotation for house refurbishment 
amounts to over £26,000. This suggests they might amount to altering or renovating rather 
than common home improvements.
That said, I dont think the value of the works themselves determines whether they amount 
to common home improvements. So, if Ms G is able to provide further detail on the precise 
nature of the refurbishment works (the descriptions within the quotation are quite vague) and 
wishes to complain about the standard of what is caught within that specific quotation on a 
standalone basis, and not the work to the extension or loft, then Id expect DAS to consider 
her claim further.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that DAS decision to decline cover was fair and 
in accordance with the policys terms and conditions. As such I wont be asking it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman