DRN-2194119
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund him a disputed transaction on his 
account which he didnt make. The transaction left his account in overdraft. He wants Monzo 
to refund him the disputed transaction.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Monzo which he opened in 17 March 2018.
Mr S got an alert on his phone that money had left his account, his account was left 
overdrawn by £1,008.05. Because he didnt recognise the transaction, he phoned Monzo to 
report it. Monzo blocked his account but the money had already left the account.
Mr S received a faster payment into his account of £2,422.80. He has told us this was 
payment for selling stock to a friend. The next day on 14 June 2019 a payment of £2,489.00 
went out of his account also by faster payments. This is the payment Mr S disputes. This left 
the account with an overdraft of £999.05. Mr S was charged an overdraft fee of £9 bringing 
his overdraft to £1,008.05.
Mr S complained to Monzo that his account had been defrauded. Monzo investigated and 
gave him their final answer on 9 July 2019. They declined the fraud claim but accepted there 
had been some service issues and gave Mr S a payment of £30 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Monzo also told Mr S they had decided to close Mr Ss account. 
Mr S contacted action fraud. 
On 22 July the account was closed with an overdraft of £1,008.05. The account defaulted on 
21 August 2019.
Mr S was unhappy with the decision from Monzo so he came to our service. He said that 
Monzo had a security breach where users details had been compromised and he thought 
his details might be amongst those.
Mr S said that the money was all his savings and it had affected his small business. He said 
he didnt have cash to buy stock as he had to use money from the business to support 
himself following the fraud. He also said it had limited his ability to visit his family abroad.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint he thought it was most likely that Mr S 
had authorised the disputed transactions because:
The disputed transaction was carried out on Mr Ss phone using the app. 
A genuine payment was made using all Mr Ss details on the same day as the 
disputed transaction. 
He said Monzo were entitled to review the account and having done so were entitled to close 
the account
Mr S disagreed with the view. He said he accepted Monzo could review and close his 
account. He was unhappy that our investigator hadnt considered that he was a victim of 
identity theft and he had reported this to the police and action fraud. 
He said that the online banking could be accessed using an email address and password 
and no PIN was necessary and since his details were compromised this could explain how 
the fraud had taken place.
Mr S was adamant that the transaction was carried out as an online transaction and no PIN 
would have been necessary. He reiterated that his details were stolen during the period. 
Monzo agreed with the view. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not, he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine security details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Monzo to hold Mr S liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr S consented to the transfer being 
made. 
Mr S has suggested that his details have been compromised following the Monzo security 
breach widely reported in the media. Monzos breach relates to how the PINs were stored in 
their internal system and Monzo have said that no third parties accessed the data.
The evidence suggests whoever carried out the transaction needed to have access to Mr S 
phone so I dont think the security breach at Monzo has any bearing on the disputed 
transaction carried out on Mr S account.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude Mr S authorised 
the transactions. I say this because:
I have seen evidence that the transaction was carried out by a device that has been 
used for previous genuine transactions.
Mr S has said the transaction wasnt carried out from his device. I have seen 
evidence that shows the disputed transaction was carried out using a device thats 
been active on the account since December 2018. If the device used wasnt one 
Mr S owned or used regularly then its likely there would have been other disputed 
payments. 
Two devices have been used to carry out transactions on his account. An Apple 
device was used to carry out the disputed transaction. The same device was used to 
carry out a genuine contactless transaction two hours before the disputed 
transaction. Mr S hasnt told us that he lost or mislaid his phone.
To be able to make a faster payment the fraudster would need access to the email 
address on file and the password as well as the PIN for the card. Mr S has said that the transaction was carried out online so no PIN would be necessary, but the bank 
has said that all transactions are carried out on the App as they are a mobile only 
bank. They have said that a PIN would be needed to authenticate the faster payment 
transaction.
The PIN Mr S has is the original PIN and hasnt been changed. Mr S has said the 
PIN wasnt compromised and was only known by him. 
I have seen evidence to show that the disputed payment was made to an account 
that Mr S has a connection with and therefore I am satisfied that no unknown 
fraudster would have paid the money into Mr Ss account. 
Taking everything into account I am satisfied that Mr S authorised the transaction and it 
follows I will not be asking Monzo to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman