The complaint
Ms and Mr D complain that Ageas Insurance Limited gave them incorrect information about 
the excess theyd have to pay under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms and Mr D jointly hold a buildings and contents home insurance policy with Ageas, which 
they took out on 2 July 2018. In June 2019 they contacted Ageas in order to make a claim 
for damage to their patio window. Ms and Mr D said their house was unoccupied at the time 
of the damage. And they said, when Ms D returned home, their glass patio window 
was cracked on the inside.
When Ms and Mr D initially contacted Ageas it the damage to thermal expansion, which it 
said wasnt covered under their policy of insurance. But Ageas contacted Ms and Mr D the 
following day to confirm that thermal expansion was included under their policy. So, it agreed 
to meet their claim.
Ageas told Ms and Mr D they could either get the glass repaired by one of its recommended 
glaziers or, alternatively, instruct a local glazier of their preference if the quote was 
acceptable. And it said their excess would be £100. 
Ms and Mr D made enquiries with a glazier. But they werent able to assist in replacing their 
patio window. So, Ms and Mr D asked Ageas to arrange for one of its recommended glaziers 
to supply and fit the replacement glass. Ms and Mr D say they were informed, during this 
telephone call, that their excess would be £100. 
After being informed on two separate occasions that their policy excess was £100 Ageas 
told Ms and Mr D that, on checking their policy, the applicable excess was £250. It stated 
that this was stipulated in their policy schedule. But Ms and Mr D werent happy theyd been 
given incorrect information about their policy excess. So, they complained.
When Ageas responded to Ms and Mr Ds complaint it accepted it had provided incorrect 
information regarding the excess theyd have to pay under their policy. It apologised and 
offered to pay them £50 for the trouble and upset theyd been caused by what happened. 
But Ms and Mr D were dissatisfied with Ageas response to their complaint. They felt Ageas 
should honour the lower excess theyd been quoted over the telephone. So, they referred 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but they didnt uphold Ms and Mr Ds 
complaint. Overall, they agreed Ageas had provided incorrect information about their policy 
excess. But they thought it had made a fair and reasonable offer to recognise its error. So, 
they didnt recommend it do anything else to resolve their complaint. But Ms and Mr D 
disagreed. So, their complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
DRN-1752925What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms and Mr D experienced at the outset of their claim. I 
can appreciate the frustration they must have been caused  particularly because they say 
they were told twice that their excess was £100. 
Ageas accepted that it provided incorrect information about the applicable policy excess. Its 
apologised for that and offered to compensate Ms and Mr D £50, which it feels recognises 
the poor service they received. So, the issue here is whether Ageas has acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to put things right for Ms and Mr D. In thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Ms and Mr D and Ageas that Ive read everything thats been 
sent. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
It isnt in dispute that Ms and Mr D were informed that their policy excess was £100. As I 
mentioned previously, Ageas accepts this was an error in communication on its part. 
However, theres disagreement between Ms and Mr D and Ageas about the excess due 
under the policy and the correct outcome of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the policy schedule and terms and conditions of Ms and Mr Ds 
insurance to see whats stated in these documents as regards the buildings excess 
applicable to a claim of this type. Having done so, Im satisfied their policy schedule outlines 
in clear intelligible language that the excess applicable here is £250.  
I understand that Ms and Mr D would wish me to tell Ageas to honour the £100 excess they 
were quoted over the telephone on making this claim. But I dont think that would be fair. Ill 
explain why.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear that Ageas made a genuine error in telling Ms 
and Mr D their excess was £100. Theres no excess of £100 listed in their policy schedule. 
So, like our investigator, I also think its unclear why the error was made. 
However, Im satisfied Ageas error was corrected quickly and didnt result in any delays in 
the patio window being replaced. And Im persuaded Ms and Mr D werent prejudiced for the 
same reasons outlined by our investigator in their view  namely that, having seen the cost 
of replacing their patio window, its likely Ms and Mr D would have continued to pursue their 
claim on their insurance policy despite the excess difference. 
Ive also taken into account that Ms and Mr D chose to accept the terms and conditions of 
their insurance policy on taking out a policy with Ageas. Its therefore fair that Ageas now 
relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to contract on this basis  and that 
means its reasonable for Ageas to charge an excess stipulated in its policy schedule. 
In this case its clear the service from Ageas could have been better. Its reasonable to 
expect it to provide clear and correct information about excesses to its policyholders. But we 
arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked Ageas to apologise for providing incorrect information to a policyholder, which its already done, and to make an 
appropriate award of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the compensation Ageas has already offered Ms and Mr D 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset they would have been caused by its error. Its in line with 
what I would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring Ageas to 
increase the amount its already offered here. Ms and Mr D say they havent received the 
£50 Ageas offered in its final response to their complaint  it should therefore make that 
payment to them if it hasnt already done so.
I appreciate that Ms and Mr D feel very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and 
Ive carefully considered everything theyve said. While I appreciate the reasons why they 
brought their complaint to our service Im satisfied that Ageas has acted fairly and 
reasonably in its offer to resolve this complaint. So, Im not going ask it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im aware that Ageas Insurance 
Limited has made an offer to pay £50 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited should pay 
Ms and Mr D £50, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman