DRN-3408158
The complaint
Mr P complained that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) had not issued updated 
terms and conditions relating to his pension investment despite alterations to legislation 
affecting the product. Mr P stated that the terms no longer made sense and sought clarity as 
to which terms and conditions remained effective and those that had changed.
What happened
In a provisional decision, dated  17 January 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions about 
Mr Ps complaint. What follows is a summary of the background and provisional conclusion I 
reached, which is fully laid out in the provisional decision.
Mr P opened a pension with Scottish equitable plc in 1990, and he was sent two booklets 
about his new pension. In January 2020, Mr P contacted Scottish equitable to query whether 
the terms and conditions of his pension had changed, in particular given changes in 
government legislation. Scottish Equitable replied that the terms and conditions had not 
changed. In February 2020, Scottish Equitable responded and stated there was no reason to 
rewrite the terms and conditions. Following further correspondence between Mr P and 
Scottish equitable, Mr P maintained his request for clarification and brought the complaint to 
us.
I considered carefully the terms and conditions together with the legislative changes in 2015, 
namely the introduction of Pension Freedoms via The Pension Schemes Act 2015. The 
changes enacted included the removal of the requirement to purchase an annuity. A number 
of terms and conditions relating to Mr Ps pension stated that an annuity will be purchased 
for a member or a members surviving widow. The response Mr P received when he queried 
this was - The benefits upon death remain return of fund and will be paid to the appropriate 
beneficiary. I therefore concluded it would not be unreasonable for Mr P to think there may 
be a difference between the conditions presented to him at the outset and that which might 
be applicable now.
I also found that conditions relating to the purchase of an annuity from Scottish Equitable, 
who no longer offer annuities, may not be as favourable as the original terms and conditions 
intended. Therefore, I further concluded that this would be a change that might affect Mr P 
and it would be reasonable to expect that he be told about it.
In both examples I have provided I considered it reasonable for Scottish Equitable to notify 
Mr P of the differences or changes because it would likely directly affect the choices he 
might make for his own benefit. Mr P said he was not written to or advised about any 
changes that would affect his pension. Although I thought it possible that Mr P may simply 
not recall being notified.
In summary I determined the following  
The changes made by the legislation in 2015 suggest that the conditions in the policy
booklet may not apply in the way that it was intended when the policy began. 
Therefore, I didnt think it unreasonable for Aegon to set out the current position with 
regard to Mr Ps queries in more detail than it has previously.
It may not be appropriate for Aegon to provide financial advice to Mr P as the 
provider of the product. However, I considered it appropriate for them to have 
outlined how key conditions may have changed, in particular those that Mr P asked 
about directly. Mr P can then seek advice from a financial advisor to determine what 
action if any he wishes to take.
And so I proposed to uphold the complaint in part and required Scottish Equitable, 
trading as Aegon, to provide the information that will have been sent to members 
previously about the legislative changes, and in particular those which implemented 
the pension freedoms and seem to be of direct relevance to Mr Ps queries here, or 
otherwise summarise those changes in a clearly understandable format for Mr P.
I initially gave the Parties until 11 February 2022 to provide any responses to the provisional 
decision. Scottish equitable sought an extension to reply which was granted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered a fresh what both parties have said and provided previously.
Mr P agreed with the outcome of the provisional decision. He said the annuity was but one 
example within the terms and conditions which have seemingly changed. He highlighted that 
the failure to provide clarity about the changes has been holding up his retirement plans.
Scottish Equitable responded by email on one March 2022. Its stated that a six month quote 
was sent to Mr P on 25 May 2018. In 2019 a five-year wake up pack was introduced. 
However, since Mr P was to retire in 2023 he would not have received the pack because it 
wouldve been due to be sent out before its introduction. Scottish Equitable stated that an 
Options leaflet should have been included with the 2018 pack, but no enclosure is marked 
on the letter and therefore they cannot confirm if it was included. With its email was also 
included retirement quotes, dated July 2020 and December 2021.
But I dont think that what Scottish Equitable has sent adequately addresses the issue here. I 
can only surmise that it continues to point out that the terms and conditions have not 
changed. That by writing to Mr P in 2018, 2020 and 2021 it fulfilled its obligations to notify Mr 
P of the changes that impacted his pension. I do not agree that this correspondence is 
sufficient to have addressed the queries Mr P raises. While these letters point Mr P to his 
options, they do not make clear the changes that might affect or have affected those options, 
especially as a result of the pension freedoms.
Mr P has quite understandably asked what has changed within his terms and conditions 
provided at the outset of his policy, and I think Scottish Equitable should be in a position to 
provide that information.
There has been no material provided since my provisional decision to cause me to change 
any of the conclusions that I previously reached. Therefore, I uphold the complaint in part. 
Putting things rightScottish Equitable, trading as Aegon, needs to provide the information that wouldve been 
sent to members previously about the legislative changes, and in particular those which 
implemented the pensions freedoms, or otherwise summarise those changes in a clearly 
understandable format for Mr P
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I uphold the complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Dharmesh Patel
Ombudsman