DRN-2296852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled a direct debit on their account 
without their permission.
What happened
In April 2018, Mrs G noticed a direct debit of £330.10 going to a company Ill call C. She 
didnt recognise Cs name. She says she tried to look C up on the internet but found nothing. 
She also says she had received no communication from C regarding the direct debit. She 
went into branch to discuss this on 13 April 2018 and she says she asked for this to be 
investigated. She says she specifically asked Barclays not to cancel the direct debit. She 
says she was told the direct debit would be investigated by head office. The direct debit 
wasnt investigated it was cancelled and a refund requested.
When she had heard nothing from Barclays, Mrs G says she returned to the branch and 
enquired about the outcome of the investigation. She was told that head office was still 
investigating this, and she should hear soon.
In October 2018 she received some post which had been forwarded to her. This included a 
letter about her mortgage. This informed her that her rental property had been passed to a 
managing agent since she had been in arrears since April 2018. Mrs G then realised that C 
was the company which was now the owner of her mortgage (the mortgage having been 
transferred by her previous provider).
Mrs G visited the branch again and found the direct debit had been cancelled. Mrs G wants 
Barclays to pay the charges that accrued with her mortgage provider due to the cancellation. 
Mrs G says it would have been hard for her to notice that this direct debit had been 
cancelled, because of the number of direct debits on her account and because the amount 
of the direct debit was so small compared to the balance of the account. She says she didnt 
receive any communication from C notifying her that the direct debit was cancelled.
After discussing the matter with C, she returned to Barclays again. The then manager of the 
branch said she would speak to the member of staff involved and find out why the direct 
debit was cancelled. She also said she was happy to make a complaint, but she needed a 
copy of all the costs that Mrs G had been charged by C.
The full list of charges was finally sent to Mrs G in April 2019 showing charges of £1605.56. 
She returned to Barclays again, but the previous manager had left, and she had to wait to 
see the new manager. She spoke to the new manager in May 2019. He lodged the
complaint.
Mr and Mrs G received a final response from Barclays. Barclays didnt accept it had done 
anything wrong.
Since receiving Barclays final response letter, on top of other sad news in the summer, 
Mrs G has had very bad depression and has been suffering with anxiety and panic attacks. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. While he appreciated Mrs G 
didnt want the direct debit to be cancelled, he thought Barclays had acted in Mr and Mrs Gs 
best interests based on the information it had at the time, that is that Mr and Mrs G didnt 
recognise C.
Mrs G didnt feel that the investigator had spoken to everyone that needed to be spoken to 
and had reached the wrong conclusion.
Having looked at all the evidence I reached a different view from the investigator and so I 
issued a provisional decision. 
I said I thought when Mrs G attended the branch in April 2018, she was clear that she didnt 
want the direct debit cancelled but wanted it investigated. I said this because I found Mrs Gs 
account to be detailed and honest. I thought the Barclays staff member should have been 
clear with her that she was going to arrange for the direct debit to be cancelled.
I thought if Mrs G had understood Barclays approach  that it would cancel the direct debit  
she would have looked more carefully to try and understand what the direct debit was for. If 
she had done so, I thought she would have realised that the amount being paid was the 
same as the amount she used to pay to another company for her mortgage and was leaving 
her account around the same time. I thought she would then have worked out that C was the 
new owner of her mortgage.
Mrs G had mentioned that she only realised what had happened when some post was 
forwarded to her. I asked the investigator to ask Mrs G about this. She confirmed that post 
for her mortgage was not being sent to the address where she lived and although she had 
previously arranged for her post to be redirected the redirection had lapsed.
On the change of ownership of the mortgage and after a missed mortgage payment I would 
have expected C to write to Mrs G. I thought had Mrs G continued the redirection or notified 
her old mortgage provider of her change of address then she would have realised the direct 
debit was for her mortgage and that the direct debit had been cancelled. I therefore didnt 
think I could hold Barclays responsible for all the charges incurred on the mortgage account 
as a result of the direct debit being cancelled. .
I thought it would be fair for Barclays to pay the fees incurred in April following the 
cancellation of the direct debit, so £46.50. I also thought it should pay Mr and Mrs G some 
compensation for the distress and upset caused. Although I appreciate Mrs G has suffered 
greatly in recent months, she had told us that she has suffered sad news and so it was 
difficult to say how much what Barclays had done has impacted her. I had also said that 
Mr and Mrs G should have arranged for their post to come to their current address. If they 
had done so I thought the direct debit probably would not have been cancelled at all or that 
they would have known it had been cancelled the following month. Taking all this together I 
thought Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs G a further £100 for its part in their distress.
Barclays has accepted my provisional decision. Mrs G has accepted it in part. She has 
accepted the amount I said should be awarded for distress and inconvenience. But she feels 
Barclays should have to pay half the charges she incurred because it should be held equally 
accountable for its lack of staff training, communication and responsibility for the way it has 
handled this case and has treated its customer. In response to my comment that Mrs G 
should have rearranged for post to be redirected she said that this would not have been a 
major problem if the direct debit had not been cancelled. All the problems and volume of 
letters from C and charges incurred started appearing when the direct debit was cancelled.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Gs points. Everything she has said is something I considered when I made 
my provisional decision and so Im not intending to change my mind. 
As I see it, had Mr and Mrs G kept up their redirection or told their mortgage provider they 
had moved they would have been told that their mortgage provider was changing to C. I 
think in these circumstances, a woman as careful and considered as Mrs G would never 
have asked Barclays to investigate the direct debit because she would have understood C 
was her mortgage provider. But they didnt receive the post from C telling them it was their 
new provider and so Mrs G attended the branch and received poor service which resulted in 
the direct debit being cancelled. I found in my provisional decision that Mrs G didnt know 
this and so I thought it was fair that Barclays pay the fees that followed that month. But I 
thought once a payment was missed Mr and Mrs G would have received a letter from C if 
they had redirected the post or C had their correct address (which it would have done had 
they told their previous provider they had moved). And therefore, I didnt think it was fair to 
hold Barclays responsible for any fees beyond the point in time when I considered Mrs G 
would have acted to reinstate the direct debit if only, they had received the letters from C. 
Putting things right
To put things right I thought Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs G £46.50 to cover the charge 
they incurred and £100 for their distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclay Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs G £46.50 to 
cover the fees they had to pay on their mortgage in April 2018 and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman