DRN-4230171
The complaint
Ms Cs representative complains about the due diligence London & Colonial Services 
Limited (L&C) undertook before accepting Ms Cs application. 
Ms Cs representative complains that in 2012 L&C accepted Ms Cs Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) application and allowed her to invest in a Store First Limited (Store First) 
investment when it shouldnt have done. Further, that Ms C has suffered loss as a result of 
this.
What happened
I've outlined the key parties involved in Ms C's complaint below.
Involved parties
L&C
L&C is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
The Pensions Office Limited (TPO)
TPO was authorised by the regulator  the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later 
became the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  to advise on products and services 
including giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments such as pensions. 
TPO was no longer authorised from 13 August 2015 and, as I understand it, TPO was 
declared in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 2015.   
Store  First 
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part 
of a larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility 
and were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided, or sell them (assuming there was a market 
for them). 
The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. 
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store 
First.
The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units consider 
the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC)? 
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a different 
source? 
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self-storage site 
against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been valued and 
sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this investment, 
particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model that 
have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in Townsville, 
Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed). 
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations: 
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the 
general public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. 
Normally the rent paid by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income 
per square foot earned through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at 
industry average occupancy levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be 
earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding 
operating costs such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and 
management fees for Store First. Furthermore, this does not factor in the losses 
incurred by each site as it takes some years to reach a mature occupancy level. 
During this time, Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet 
there does not appear to be sufficient income from the operations of the business to 
fund these returns.
In addition, the analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being 
paid per square foot by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken 
together equates to a much higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites 
were sold as stand-alone self-storage stores.

a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed 
returns to existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely 
level of losses that require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case 
that the rental returns being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale 
proceeds of new units, and not the operation of the self-storage business. 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary. On 30 
April 2019 the Court made an order to wind-up Store First and three associated companies 
in the public interest by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. 
The Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator and had responsibility for dealing with the 
assets and liabilities of the four companies.
Following this the freehold, associated assets and goodwill of 15 storage centres were sold 
by the Official Receiver to a company called Store First Freeholds Limited. As I understand 
it, the self-storage units continued to be rented to end users and a company called Pay Store 
now manages the storage sites trading as Store First. The Official Receiver and Store First Freeholds Limited agreed that the latter would accept any requests from investors to 
surrender their pods. Store First Freeholds Limited would cover its own costs of the 
surrender, but investors wouldnt receive any payment.
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions UK LLP) 
[2020] EWHC 1299 (Ch) (Adams v Options), the judge found the value of Mr Adams six 
pods, acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. And in 
the judgement in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 1188 it was 
stated that, in February 2020, Options had said it was valuing Storepods at £430 each 
following (then) recent sales of Store First storage units at auction and the Court used that 
value in assessing the redress due to Mr Adams.
Jackson Francis Ltd (Jackson Francis)
As I understand it, Jackson Francis was an unregulated sales company. It was explained on 
Jackson Francis website in March 2012 that:
Jackson Francis's free, unique and no-obligation Pension Transfer Service means 
you can quickly understand what switching your pension means for you  and 
whether or not it's worth it.
One of our dedicated account managers will discuss the relevant information with 
you, and will collate details of charges from your existing provider, helping you to 
track old policies and understand the process.
We will then introduce you to either traditional schemes or alternative investments 
that might match or surpass your existing provider. Where you invest is your choice, 
we are unbiased and simply give you the facts.
It was also explained that:
As you'd expect, deciding whether it's a good idea to switch your pension begins 
with looking at your existing arrangements. More often than not is does not take a 
great deal of detective work to realise just how badly most pensions are performing 
but if in doubt its always best to take advice.
If you would like to speak to a financial advisor we will arrange one to call you with no 
obligation. Assessing the market for your options can be difficult but our unbiased 
'just the facts' approach will help you to identify the right choice for your future. There 
are no up-front costs and of course, you will be under no obligation to transfer with 
us.
In 2015 the British Broadcasting Corporation reported that:
The Liverpool sales company Jackson Francis Ltd was paid through an intermediary 
by Store First to cold call people with "dormant pensions" - savings they had accrued 
under previous employers.
From 2011, more than 1,000 people were persuaded by Jackson Francis staff to 
move these pensions into the Store First scheme.

Over two years, Store First owner (Mr W) paid £33m commission to Transeuro 
Worldwide Holdings Ltd, which funded Jackson Francis.
What happened?Ms C says Jackson Francis introduced her to TPO.
TPO wrote to Ms C in August 2012 and, amongst other things, said that it didnt recommend 
she transfer her Defined Benefit (DB) Pension Scheme as the return needed to replicate 
the benefits being forfeited on transfer was highly unlikely to be achievable. TPO said that it 
had been informed by Jackson Francis that Ms C wanted to transfer her monies into a SIPP 
so as to make investments that werent permitted within her existing arrangement. TPO said 
that if Ms Cs overriding intention was to transfer then TPO would be happy to assist her with 
transferring her monies to L&C. It was explained that application forms for L&C were 
enclosed for completion and return to proceed. 
TPO said that Ms Cs acceptance of risk was low to medium and that alternative 
investments represented a higher risk than appeared appropriate for Ms Cs risk profile. In its 
letter TPO didnt mention the Store First investment, it just said that Ms C must take 
professional advice before making investments and that it wasnt able to assist with advice of 
this nature.
Later in August 2012, Ms C completed an application form to open a SIPP with L&C and 
transfer in her DB Scheme. It appears that this form was sent to L&C by TPO on 28 August 
2012. The Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) details are on page three of the form. The 
name of the IFA firm was recorded as The Pensions Office and TPOs FSA authorisation 
number was noted. Mr P is the named TPO contact. In the section immediately below these 
details, a box reading Advice given at point of sale to client has been ticked. 
Elsewhere in the form its recorded that Ms C is looking to transfer in funds worth around 
£86,000 from her DB Scheme and a box has been ticked to confirm that shes looking to 
manage the fund herself.
In L&Cs checklist for the SIPP application, boxes have been ticked to confirm that TPO has 
an agency agreement with L&C and to confirm that, if the IFA wasnt authorised, L&C had 
ensured the transfer wasnt from a DB Scheme.
L&C wrote to Ms C on 17 September 2012 and highlighted that it had not yet received 
completed and signed Self Storage and investment purchase request applications to 
proceed with a Self Storage purchase.
In its submissions L&C has referenced an investment purchase request of 26 September 
2012. 
I cant see that weve received a copy of an investment purchase request form that Ms C 
completed. In my provisional decision I stated that if its got a copy, L&C should provide a 
copy of Ms Cs completed investment purchase request form to me alongside its response to 
my provisional decision. A copy of Ms Cs completed investment purchase request form 
wasnt provided to me alongside L&Cs response to my provisional decision.
I can see weve received copies of investment purchase request forms on some other 
complaints against L&C (not involving Ms C) where other TPO-introduced clients invested in 
Store First after transfers into a L&C SIPP had been effected. Ive seen two slightly different 
variants of investment purchase request forms in these cases, but there are some 
characteristics which are common to both. And, based on the evidence available to me 
currently, it seems more likely than not these would also have appeared in the form Ms C 
completed. Amongst other things, the investment purchase request forms Ive seen on other 
complaints included the following:A question about whether the investor was a certified Sophisticated Investor (and a 
request to provide evidence where this was the case).
A question about whether advice had been provided on the proposed investment, 
where it had there was a section for the adviser to complete (including a box for their 
FSA number(s)). In none of the forms Ive seen was the section to be completed by 
an adviser, if advice had been given, completed.
A typed member declaration section that consumers signed to confirm, amongst 
other things, that L&C hadnt provided advice on the investment, that the consumer 
had carried out their own due diligence into the investment, that the investment may 
be high risk and that there may not be an established market for selling the proposed 
holding. It was also stated that the responsibility for assessing the risks and merits of 
the investment rested with the consumer and any investment adviser theyd 
appointed, unregulated investments may not be protected by the FSCS and that the 
consumer indemnified L&C against any liabilities arising from the investment (bold 
my emphasis).   
In some other complaints weve got against L&C where monies were invested in Store First, 
a second form titled Self Storage Commercial Property Investment was completed by 
investors. I cant see that weve received a copy of a completed Self Storage Commercial 
Property Investment form for Ms C. In my provisional decision I said that if Ms C completed 
such a form  which seems likely given what L&C was asking for in its 17 September 2012 
letter  L&C should provide a copy of Ms Cs completed Self Storage Commercial Property 
Investment form to me alongside its response to my provisional decision. A copy of Ms Cs 
completed Self Storage Commercial Property Investment form wasnt provided to me 
alongside L&Cs response to my provisional decision.
For completeness, in Self Storage Commercial Property Investment forms Ive seen on other 
complaints it was noted, amongst other things, that:
L&C wasnt authorised to give financial or investment advice. But it had obtained 
legal advice in its capacity as trustee, in order to assess the risks of ownership and 
to ensure appropriate title was attained. That advice didnt cover the investment 
merits, marketability or value of the property.
The consumer had obtained whatever information, reports, legal or other advice that 
they required.
Ms Cs SIPP application was accepted and an L&C SIPP was established for her. L&C wrote 
to Ms C and TPO on 28 September 2012 to confirm this. A little under £86,000 was 
transferred into the SIPP from Ms C's DB Scheme. 
L&C wrote to Ms C on 5 October 2012 and confirmed that her application for a self-storage 
investment had been received. L&C said that it had received a reservation form from 
Jackson Francis informing it of the purchase of units. L&C asked Ms C to review the 
document and to confirm that that she was happy to proceed with the information provided 
on the reservation form.
The Storepod reservation form mentioned Storefirst.com self storage, recorded Ms Cs 
details and said that the agent was Jackson Francis. The location of the Storepods was 
noted and six plot numbers were shown. The total value of the units was £81,750 and the 
rental guarantee included was 8%. Ms C signed the form on 18 August (the year is difficult to 
make out from the copy of the form, but I think its most likely 2012). 
Ms C wrote to L&C on 15 October 2012, this appears to have been further to L&Cs letter of 
5 October 2012. Ms C confirmed that she was happy to proceed with the purchase.A transaction history for Ms Cs SIPP shows that a little under £86,000 was transferred into 
her L&C SIPP on 28 September 2012. And a little under £82,500 was then transferred to 
Hetherington Partnership (solicitors who were involved in the Store First purchase process) 
on 9 November 2012.
L&C wrote to Ms C on 4 November 2013 and it confirmed that TPO was no longer 
authorised to act as the financial adviser on her SIPP and that TPO had been removed from 
her SIPP. L&C explained that going forwarded it would send correspondence directly to 
Ms C. It also recommended that she seek independent financial advice on her SIPP.
Ms C made a complaint to the FSCS about TPO. The FSCS investigated that complaint and 
awarded Ms C £50,000. The FSCS entered into a reassignment of rights with Ms C, which 
has enabled her to bring this complaint against L&C. 
L&C wrote to Ms Cs representative on 10 January 2019 and confirmed that the value of 
Ms Cs SIPP was £0.
Additional background information
Weve previously been provided with a copy of a printout from the FSA Register. This 
records that, as at 30 August 2012, TPOs permissions included advising on Pension 
Transfers and Pension Opt Outs.
Ms C has told us, amongst other things, that:
She was contacted by Jackson Francis. Jackson Francis introduced her to TPO and 
she was promised high interest rates. She wasnt interested in changing her pension 
at the time of being contacted by TPO.
She didnt understand the role that TPO played in the transaction.
TPO didnt recommend any products to her.
She understood that the Storepods purchases would be leased on her behalf and 
that there was an 8% guarantee.
She understood the investment shed made to be risk free.
She hadnt received a payment when moving her pension.
An investigator reviewed Ms Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. The 
investigator said that in light of the investment marketing literature L&C should have been 
concerned that consumers were being misled about the returns and risks associated with the 
investment and that there was the risk of consumer detriment. Further, that L&C didnt act in 
a fair and reasonable manner in accepting the Store First investment within Ms Cs SIPP. 
And that had L&C acted fairly and reasonably it shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs application 
to open a SIPP with it.
Solicitors for L&C replied to the investigators view. Amongst other things, they said that:
Ms C has already received a payment of £50,000 from the FSCS. Shes also 
received rental income from the Store First investment of £18,751, tax-free cash of 
£11,985 and sale proceeds of £12,609.57. So shes taken income and capital 
totalling in excess of £90,000, which exceeds the sum transferred into her SIPP.
Ms C submitted an application to invest in Store First on 29 September 2012. This 
confirmed that Ms C understood that L&C wasnt authorised to give financial or 
investment advice and that the advice obtained by L&C as trustee was limited to assessing the risks of ownership and to ensure the acquisition of appropriate title. 
Further, that advice obtained by L&C didnt cover the investment's merits, 
marketability or value and that Ms C had obtained whatever reports or advice she 
required. 
An investment purchase request of 26 September 2012 said that L&C hadnt 
provided advice and that Ms C had carried out her own due diligence and was happy 
to proceed. The request confirmed that Ms C understood the investment was high 
risk and that there may not be an established market for resale. 
Ms C indemnified L&C against all liability arising from the investment and confirmed 
that responsibility for assessing the merits of the investment lay solely with her.
The relationships in this case are similar to those in the Adams v Options case, but 
the investigators view doesnt explain why weve reached a different conclusion to 
that arrived at in Adams.
If anything the position here is stronger in that a regulated adviser was involved and 
would have been responsible for assessing any marketing materials and the 
suitability of the investment. This was not the case in Adams.
The investigators view imposes a duty on L&C to decide whether to accept or reject 
business brought to it by a customer requesting an execution-only service.
A breach of the Principles cannot, of itself, give rise to any cause of action at law.
The ambit and application of the Principles, and such duties as may be imposed on 
L&C by these, fall to be construed in light of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) rules applicable to L&C, L&Cs regulatory permissions, L&Cs contractual 
arrangements and the statutory objective that consumers should take responsibility 
for their decisions.
It was said in Adams that reports, guidance and correspondence issued after the 
events at issue couldnt be applied to Options conduct at the time. So, publications 
issued after the transactions in this case shouldnt have a bearing on the complaint.
Even if the 2009 Thematic Review Report had been statutory guidance made under 
FSMA S.139A (which it wasnt), the breach of such statutory guidance wouldnt give 
rise to a claim for damages under FSMA S.138D.
The FCA's Enforcement Guide says that "Guidance is not binding on those to whom 
the FCAs rules apply. Nor are the variety of materials (such as case studies showing 
good or bad practice, FCA speeches and generic letters written by the FCA to Chief 
Executives in particular sectors) published to support the rules and guidance in the 
Handbook. Rather, such materials are intended to illustrate ways (but not the only 
ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant rules."
Regulatory publications cant alter the meaning, or the scope, of the obligations 
imposed by the Principles.
Adams held that duties imposed by COBS cant all apply to all firms in all 
circumstances. 
Neither the obligations under COBS 14.2.3R and COBS 14.3 to provide clients with 
product information, nor the obligation under COBS 19.1.2R to provide clients with 
pension product information, apply to execution-only SIPP providers.
Ms C was aware that L&C would act on an execution-only basis and wouldnt accept 
responsibility for the quality of the investment business.
If L&C really had the obligations of due diligence set out in the investigators view and 
had acted in accordance with them then it would have been required to advise on 
investments, which was contrary to its regulatory permissions.
With an execution-only service, it would be unfair if the SIPP provider couldnt rely on 
representations made by the consumer when signing the contractual documentation.
Amongst other things, the judge in Adams held that in order to identify the extent of 
the regulatory duties imposed on Carey, "one has to identify the relevant factual context and that "the key fact ... in the context is the agreement into which the 
parties entered, which defined their roles in the transaction".
The judge also said that "a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed...as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the 
client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own 
decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
In Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as determined by contract, 
would govern what it had to do to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook.
Insufficient weight has been given to contractual arrangements and the demarcation 
of roles and responsibilities. The documents setting out the contractual relationship 
between the parties make it clear that L&C was acting on an execution-only basis.
The investigators view runs contrary to Adams by suggesting that, notwithstanding 
the clear contractual terms, L&C owed due diligence obligations under the Principles. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is attempting to use the Principles to circumvent 
the Adams decision. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service must take into account the relevant case law 
and, if this is deviated from, must set out why  R. (on the application of Aviva Life 
and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 352 (Admin) 
and Jay Js comments at paragraph 73 of that judgment were referenced.
Its not fair or reasonable to determine the complaint by reference to the FCA 
publications and to do so only exacerbates the problem referred to by Jay J in Aviva.
The Principles cant give rise to a cause of action if breached, and consideration of 
the Principles must be via the appropriate COBS rules applying to the transaction. 
The investigators view fails to have regard to the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their decisions, the fundamental principle of freedom of 
contract and to the authority of Adams and Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd 
[2020] C.T.L.C. 161. 
The investigators view enables Ms C to recover against L&C for losses flowing from 
non-contractual obligations which were inconsistent with, and contrary to, the 
express obligations in the parties' contractual arrangements.
In Adams the Store First investment being high risk didnt make it manifestly 
unsuitable. 
The suitability of a high risk investment depends on the particular financial 
circumstances of the particular customer and their attitude to risk. An execution-only 
SIPP provider was under no regulatory obligation to ascertain these details.
The investment purchase request clearly set out that the investment was high risk.
That it wasnt clear how an investment could be independently valued wouldnt, of 
itself, make an investment unsuitable, and Ms C was clearly informed of this.
That an investment didnt have investor protection wouldnt, of itself, make an 
investment unsuitable. And the member declaration stated that unregulated 
investments might not be protected by the FSCS.
The investigators view criticised L&C for failing to independently verify claims made 
in Store Firsts marketing material. 
The duty that the Financial Ombudsman Service is seeking to impose on L&C 
appears to require an analysis of the investment commensurate with what one would 
expect from a financial adviser. 
L&C wasnt able to provide any views on the specific qualities of an investment 
without potentially putting itself in breach of its permissions.
L&C wasnt able to refuse a members instruction to invest based on the risk profile of 
an investment without completing a full assessment of suitability. This would fall well 
outside of the scope of L&Cs duty and retainer. And L&C couldnt communicate the 
results of such an investigation to a consumer without giving advice. 
Suggestions that L&C should have looked into the viability of guarantees offered, the likelihood of expected returns being achieved and the credibility of statements about 
rental income, are far beyond the scope of the retainer agreed by the parties. And 
are at odds with the service offered by an execution-only SIPP provider. 
Any responsibility for assessing the viability of the investment returns fell to TPO.
Store First investments were bona fide and good title was obtained, that they didn't 
perform as hoped doesnt change this.
Ms C signed documents confirming the investment was high risk. And shed already 
decided to transfer her pension before she contacted L&C, presumably on TPOs 
advice.
Theres nothing to indicate that Ms C wouldnt still have gone ahead had L&C refused 
the business.
A number of other SIPP providers at the time were accepting such investments and 
its most likely that if L&C had rejected the application the transaction would still have 
been effected with a different provider.
The Financial Ombudsman Services view of what was reasonable practice for the 
SIPP industry at the time is at odds with the view of the SIPP industry in general.
There is a real unfairness if an execution-only SIPP provider is liable for the poor 
investment choices of consumers.
Ms C had nothing substantive to add in response to the investigators view.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. In 
brief, I concluded that:
L&C should have been conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and 
investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation 
was a continuing one.
There was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with the introductions 
L&C received from TPO. And had L&C undertaken sufficient due diligence into TPO, 
it ought to have had real concerns that TPO wasnt acting in customers best 
interests, and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations. 
L&C didnt undertake appropriate steps, or draw reasonable conclusions, from 
information that would have been available to it had it undertaken adequate due 
diligence into the Store First investment before it accepted that investment into its 
SIPPs. 
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs 
responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly by accepting her business from TPO. 
And, separately, L&C also didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and 
control its affairs responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly, by accepting the Store First 
investments into her SIPP. 
L&C didnt meet its obligations or good industry practice at the relevant times, and 
allowed Ms C to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Its fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Ms C for the loss shes suffered as a 
result of L&C accepting her business from TPO and permitting her to invest her L&C 
SIPP monies in Store First.
L&C didnt accept my provisional decision and solicitors for L&C provided a detailed 
response. This included some points raised in earlier correspondence that Ive already 
summarised earlier in this decision. So, Ive set out below a summary of what I consider to 
be the main points made in the solicitors response to my provisional decision. However, the 
list isnt exhaustive and before making this decision I carefully considered the response in 
full. The provisional decision conveniently selects from case law and statute, while 
ignoring case law that is far more applicable.
The Decision ignores the findings in the High Court decision in Adams v Carey and 
reaches a different conclusion despite there being a materially similar factual 
position. In Adams, it was held that the SIPP provider was not at fault in respect of its 
due diligence obligations and there was no finding that the Store First investments 
should have been rejected by Carey. If anything, the position here is stronger in that 
a regulated adviser was involved.
Reference to the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Reviews contravene the decision in 
Adams on the basis that they:
ohave no bearing on the construction of the Principles as the contents of the 
documents cannot found a claim for compensation of itself;
ocannot alter the meaning of, or the scope of the obligations imposed by, the 
Principles;
odo not provide guidance and even if they were considered statutory 
guidance, any breach would not give rise to a claim for damages under FSMA 
s.138D.
The provisional decision extends the scope of the duty owed by L&C beyond what 
was envisaged by the parties. 
Amongst other things, the judge in Adams held that there is a very plain 
inconsistency between the contract which was entered into between it and the 
claimant and the duties [under COBS 2.1.1R] which the claimant now suggests that 
the defendant owed to him.
Further, that there was [no] duty on [Carey] to consider the suitability of 
appropriateness of a SIPP or the underlying investment. The contract between [the 
parties] makes that clear.
The level of due diligence imposed by the Financial Ombudsman Service goes far 
beyond what was agreed between the parties.
The provisional decision holds L&C to a standard thats not provided for by statutory 
guidance or by the law. 
No regard is paid to the respective duties of the parties under the contract.
Ms C transferred her pension in the hope of achieving a significant return.
The provisional decision holds that Ms C should take no responsibility for her own 
decisions. 
At the time of the transaction, there was no obligation for a customer to take advice 
on the transfer of a pension. There was also no requirement to ensure that 
customers were obtaining independent financial advice.
TPO was authorised and regulated by the FCA and there was no issues in accepting 
business from it. 
At the time of the transaction, there was nothing in the DISP rules preventing SIPP 
providers accepting business from unregulated introducers, execution-only 
customers or high-risk business provided that adequate risk warnings were given.
There was no requirement for L&C to request information highlighted in the 
provisional decision from TPO, so failing to do this couldnt have resulted in a breach 
of regulatory obligations.
In the provisional decision, the Financial Ombudsman Service appears to disregard 
the detailed investigations carried out by L&C, and the conclusions L&C reached, 
instead focussing on documents that the ombudsman hasnt seen.
The provisional decision says that L&C should have conducted some further 
independent searches following receipt of the Enhance Support Solutions Limited 
report. However, the only example given is a reference to a County Court Judgment 
('CCJ') recorded against Harley Scott Holdings Limited (the promoter). Enhance 
Support Solutions obtained information from the promoter directly relating to a fee 
dispute which was in the process of being settled. Given the limited nature of information provided on a CCJ, it would have been necessary to ask the relevant 
party for this information directly. The CCJ was of an insignificant value and bears no 
relevance to the investment in Store First. 
The provisional decision puts disproportionate weight on the actions of the promoter 
but fails to link the promoter's conduct or actions to the investment itself.
That an investment was likely to be high risk because it was unregulated, that it was 
unclear how an investment could be independently valued and that there was no 
investor protection doesnt automatically equate to an unsuitable investment.
The FSCS awarding compensation to Ms C shows that Ms C received advice from 
TPO in respect of both the transfer and investment. 
Ms C might have had a greater level of sophistication than shes been given credit 
for. In an email to L&C dated 8 July 2016, Ms C said that "I am acutely aware that 
this is Friday and that if settlement is not made today I will be in dire straights [sic]. I 
will also lose a very lucrative investment opportunity. I'm sure my accountant/family 
Trustee, has been in touch too.
Ms C cannot say that she believed the investment carried no risk when she signed
documents confirming that it was high risk. 
DISP 3.6.4 R requires FOS to take into consideration (amongst others) laws and 
regulations which, for these purposes, includes the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 
1978 (the Act). Under the Act, a claimant must account for any contribution that they 
have received from another party. Ms C has already received compensation in the 
sum of £50,000 from the FSCS and Ms C will need to account for this.
Ms Cs representative noted that Ms C was in agreement with the provisional decision. The 
representative also highlighted that, having reviewed my provisional decision, Ms C thinks 
that she might have previously sold her Store First investments but shes unable to provide 
any evidence to show that this happened. 
Having considered the responses received to my provisional decision and the policy 
statement PS22/13, as set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4, I made some 
further changes to the Putting things right section of my provisional decision. An amended  
Putting things right section was shared with both parties on 18 May 2023. In response to 
this Ms Cs representative submitted, amongst other things, that it would be helpful if the 
final decision provided for:
A fixed period of 90 days by which the payment should be made.
Interest payable at a rate of 8% per year following the expiry of the 90 day period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
As a preliminary point, I should also say the purpose of this final decision is to set out my 
findings on whats fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, 
not to offer a point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the 
complaint. And so whilst I have considered all the submissions made by both parties, Ive 
focussed here on the points I believe to be key to my final decision on whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.Relevant considerations
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore still 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments and the judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 1188 when making this decision on Ms Cs case. 
Ive reconsidered whether Adams means that the Principles should not be taken into account 
in deciding this case. And I remain of the view that it doesnt. I note that the Principles for 
Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial case against Options SIPP. 
And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP operators in his 
judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means 
Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of the Adams 
judgments when making this decision on Ms Cs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Ms Cs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual 
relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the Storepods 
investment into its SIPP. 
In Ms Cs complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the Store First investment involved a significant risk of consumer detriment 
and, if so, whether it ought to have declined to accept applications to invest in Store First 
before it received Ms Cs application.
The facts of Mr Adams and Ms Cs cases are also different. I make that point to highlight 
that there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Ms Cs case. And I 
need to construe the duties L&C owed to Ms C under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific 
facts of Ms Cs case.  
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Ms Cs case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Ms C 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt the 
same thing as advising Ms C on the merits of the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. 
Overall, Im still satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to 
be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Ms Cs case.   
The regulatory publicationsThe FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Ive considered the relevance of these publications. And Ive set out material parts of the 
publications here, although Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 Report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports and the Dear CEO letter 
arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the 
reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their 
importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for 
Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to 
ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what 
SIPP operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice, and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account. Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
At its introduction the 2009 Thematic Review Report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides 
examples of good practices we found.
And, as referenced above, the report goes on to provide examples of measures that
SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and
suggestions we have made to firms.
So, Im satisfied that the 2009 Report is a reminder that the Principles apply and it gives an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Report set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates 
what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So I remain satisfied 
its relevant and therefore appropriate to take it into account.
In its submissions, including when making its points about the regulatory publications, L&C 
has referenced the R. (on the application of Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 352 (Admin) case. While the judge in that case made 
some observations about the application of our statutory remit, that remit remains 
unchanged. And, as noted above, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case, Im required to take into account (where appropriate) what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
L&C has also said that many of the matters which the Report invites firms to consider are 
directed at firms providing advisory services. Its not specified which parts of the Report it 
thinks are directed at such firms but, to be clear, I think the Report is also directed at firms 
like L&C acting purely as SIPP operators. The Report says that We are very clear that SIPP 
operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the 
Principles for Businesses And its noted prior to the good practice examples quoted 
above that We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to 
have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, 
enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such 
as unsuitable SIPPs.
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied its appropriate to take 
them into account too.
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about publications published after Ms Cs SIPP 
was set up. But I remain of the view stated in my provisional decisional that, like the 
ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than the 2009 
Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Ms Cs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
I note L&Cs point that the judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic 
Review Report, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance 
to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, 
as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).
 
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. 
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time. To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the 
transactions were suitable for Ms C. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to give advice to 
Ms C, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or 
the scope of, the Principles. But as Ive said above theyre evidence of what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles. As L&C notes from the FCAs Enforcement Guide, 
publications of this type illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply 
with the relevant rules. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take them into account 
when deciding this complaint.
Id also add that, even if I agreed with L&C that any publications or guidance that post-dated 
the events subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice 
that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report 
together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time before 
accepting Ms Cs application.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
And in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Ms Cs 
application to establish a SIPP and to invest in Store First, L&C complied with its regulatory 
obligations: to act with due skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, 
Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what 
L&C should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Submissions have been made about breaches of the Principles not giving rise to any cause 
of action at law, and breaches of guidance not giving rise to a claim for damages under the 
FSMA. Ive carefully considered these submissions but, to be clear, its not my role to 
determine whether something thats taken place gives rise to a right to take legal action. Im 
making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and 
for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications 
listed above are relevant considerations to that decision. 
And taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for L&C to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other 
things it should have undertaken sufficient due diligence into TPO/the business TPO was 
introducing and the Store First investment before deciding to accept Ms Cs applications.
Ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether L&C took reasonable care, acted with due 
diligence and treated Ms C fairly, in accordance with her best interests. And what I think is 
fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in Ms Cs complaint is whether it 
was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted Ms Cs SIPP application and Store First 
application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out appropriate due 
diligence checks on TPO and the Store First investment before deciding to accept Ms Cs 
applications.
And the questions I need to consider include whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified thatconsumers introduced by TPO and/or investing in Store First were being put at significant 
risk of detriment. And, if so, whether L&C should therefore not have accepted Ms Cs 
application for the L&C SIPP and/or Store First investment.
The contract between L&C and Ms C
L&C has made some submissions about its contract with Ms C and Ive carefully considered 
what L&C has said about this.
My provisional decision was made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP 
operator and this final decision is made on the same basis. I dont say L&C should (or could) 
have given advice to Ms C or otherwise have ensured the suitability of the SIPP or Store 
First investment for her. I accept that L&C made it clear to Ms C that it wasnt giving, nor was 
it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in her SIPP investments. And 
that forms Ms C signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses arising as a result of 
L&C acting on her instructions were her responsibility.
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Cs case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Ms C on the suitability of the SIPP or Store First investment.
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. And I remain 
satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its operation of SIPPs 
business, L&C had to decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or 
referrals of business with the Principles in mind. To be clear, I dont agree that it couldnt 
have rejected applications without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving 
investment advice.
The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and that a particular investment is 
appropriate to accept. That involves conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and 
investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation was a 
continuing one.
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, L&C needed to conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Ms C) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the 
circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
So, and well before the time of Ms Cs application, I think that L&C ought to have understood 
that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on TPO 
to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. And I think L&C also ought to have 
understood that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate due 
diligence on investments, like the Store First holding, before accepting them into its SIPPs.
L&Cs due diligence on TPO
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether to accept introductions 
from TPO. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators publications as set out 
earlier in this decision.L&C explained to us in a previous complaint (that was the subject of published decision 
DRN-3587366  the published decision) that at the date of the SIPP application in that 
case, which was towards the end of 2011, it wouldn't have accepted applications from a firm 
that wasnt authorised by the FSA.
L&C also told us in that case that its directors from the relevant period had confirmed that its 
policy was that applicants effecting a pension transfer, as Ms C was here, had to have had 
advice made available to them. And that it was then for the applicant to choose whether to 
take up the intermediarys offer of advice. In my provisional decision I explained that if L&Cs 
policy on this point had changed before it received Ms Cs application that L&C should 
confirm and clarify this alongside its response to my provisional decision. In response to my 
provisional decision, L&C hasnt stated that its policy had changed before it received Ms Cs 
application.   
I note that in L&Cs New Business Checklist for Ms Cs SIPP application, its mentioned that 
if the IFA isnt authorised L&C had to ensure that the transfer wasnt from a DB Scheme. 
L&C has provided us with evidence to show that it checked TPOs entry on the FSA register 
on 30 August 2012. And I can see that TPOs permissions included advising on Pension 
Transfers and Pension Opt Outs. 
As I understand it, L&C also entered into an intermediary agreement with TPO. In complaints 
involving a different introducer Ive previously seen a copy of an L&C Intermediary 
application form and an L&C Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts. But, to 
date, Ive not seen copies of any agreements entered into between L&C and TPO. In my 
provisional decision I stated that L&C should provide a copy of any agreements that 
are/were in effect between it and TPO to me alongside its response to my provisional 
decision. I didnt receive a copy of any such agreements alongside L&Cs response to my 
provisional decision.
As part of an agreement process, it was open to L&C to mention to TPO any policy 
requirements it had for full regulated advice to be made available to applicants where 
introduced business involved pension transfers. To date, no correspondence Ive seen 
between L&C and TPO mentioned this. 
As part of our investigation, L&C was asked a series of detailed questions about the due 
diligence it undertook into the introducer (which was TPO for the SIPP). This included 
information about, amongst other things, what L&C understood TPOs business model/client 
process to involve, how introductions were made, whether TPO was advising on the transfer 
and/or the underlying investments, whether L&Cs understanding was advice would be given 
by TPO and whether L&C had asked to see any suitability reports/pension transfer reports 
provided to clients TPO was introducing, details about the volume of business TPO 
introduced to L&C, the period this occurred over, the percentage of the introductions that 
involved occupational pension transfers and the percentage of the introductions where 
applicants were to invest in non-mainstream investments. I explained in my provisional 
decision that weve not received a substantive response from L&C to our enquiries about 
this. I also said that L&C should provide me with a full response to the questions weve 
asked about the due diligence it undertook into the introducer alongside its response to my 
provisional decision. 
Under DISP 3.5.9(3)R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
To date, L&C has provided us with very little information about its relationship with TPO. 
From that information which has been provided, Im satisfied that L&C did take some steps towards meeting its regulatory obligations and good industry practice. However, I dont think 
those steps weve seen evidence of went far enough, or were sufficient, to meet L&Cs 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice. 
I think L&C was aware of, or should have identified potential risks of, consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by TPO, including the following, before it accepted 
Ms Cs application: 
oThe SIPP business introduced by TPO had anomalous features  it 
appears to have been high risk business, including a number of DB Scheme 
transfers where monies were ending up invested in unregulated and esoteric 
investments post-transfer. 
oTPO had the necessary permissions to give full advice on the business 
it was introducing. However, TPO wasnt giving consumers it was introducing to 
L&C (like Ms C) advice on the suitability, or otherwise, of the high risk 
unregulated Store First investment that their L&C SIPPs were being 
established, and that their monies were being transferred to L&C, to effect.
oUnregulated firms were promoting the Store First investments.
L&C should have taken steps to address these risks (or, given these risks, have 
simply declined to deal further with TPO). Such steps should have involved 
getting a fuller understanding of TPOs business model  through requesting 
information from TPO and through independent checks.
Such understanding would have revealed there was a significant risk of 
consumer detriment associated with introductions of business from TPO.
In the alternative TPO would have been unwilling to answer or fully answer the 
questions about its business model.
In either event L&C should have concluded it shouldnt accept introductions from 
TPO.
Ive set out below some more detail on anomalous features of the business TPO was 
introducing to L&C, and on potential risks of consumer detriment that I think L&C either knew 
about, or ought to have known about, before it accepted Ms Cs SIPP application. These 
points overlap, to a degree, and should have been considered by L&C cumulatively.
Anomalous features
The type of investments being made by TPO-introduced consumers
Weve previously asked L&C in this complaint about the percentage of introductions it 
received from TPO where applicants were to invest in non-mainstream investments. 
In the absence of a response from L&C to our question about this, and having regard to 
other complaints weve received against L&C where TPO was the introducer, Im satisfied 
that in most, if not all, of these complaints the consumers ended up with SIPP monies 
invested in Store First. And I think its not unlikely that this might be reflective of the pattern 
of total business L&C received from TPO. So, based on the evidence Ive seen to date, I 
think its more likely than not that either all of, or the vast majority of, consumers introduced 
to L&C by TPO ended up with SIPP monies invested in higher risk non-standard assets like 
the Store First investment. That most TPO-introduced consumers were ending up invested in higher risk unregulated 
holdings also doesnt appear inconsistent with what Mr P of TPO is quoted as stating by the 
FCA in a final notice it issued about a firm named United Claims Management Limited dated 
14 May 2021. The FCA quotes Mr P as stating that:
I was a director of The Pensions Office Limited, which went into Creditors 
Voluntary Liquidation on 9 March 2015; Since at least 16 July 2012 I misused my 
position as an Approved Person with the regulatory authority by failing to ensure 
that The Pensions Office (TPO) properly advise[d] its clients on the transfer of low-
risk personal and occupation (sic) pension products into Self-Invested Personal 
Pensions (SIPPs) and failing to advise clients on the high risk unregulated 
underlying investment, much of which was into Storepod investments; and TPO 
also failed to take into account financial circumstances, needs and objectives and 
attitude to risk when advising clients and failed to ensure that adequate systems, 
controls, risk analysis and management information were put in place
So, from the evidence thats been made available to us to date, I think its more likely than 
not that either all of, or the vast majority of, consumers introduced to L&C by TPO ended up 
with their SIPP monies invested in higher risk unregulated investments such as the Store 
First investment Ms C invested in.
I think its fair to say that such investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast 
majority of retail clients. They will generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the 
population. And I think L&C either was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
the type of business TPO was introducing was high risk and therefore carried a potential risk 
of consumer detriment.
Volume and nature of business introduced
During our investigation of this complaint, weve previously asked L&C about the business 
TPO introduced to L&C, the period this occurred over and the percentage of those 
introductions that involved occupational pension transfers. As Ive mentioned above, L&C 
hasnt responded to our questions about this. 
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
An example of good practice identified in the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report was:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
I think L&C either had, or ought to have had, access to information about the number and 
type of introductions that TPO made. I say that because, as can be seen in the published 
decision (DRN-3587366), its previously been able to provide similar information to us about 
a different firm that was introducing business to it.
And I dont think simply keeping records about the number and nature of introductions that 
TPO made without scrutinising that information would have been consistent with good 
industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As highlighted in the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.Ms Cs SIPP application form included TPOs details and had a box ticked that said Advice 
given at point of sale to client. But this wasnt the only form L&C was receiving from TPO-
introduced consumers like Ms C. 
As I mentioned above, following a request that was made to L&C in my provisional 
decision, I cant see that weve received a copy of an investment purchase request form 
that Ms C completed. But, given what L&C was asking Ms C for in its 17 September 
2012 letter, it seems more likely than not L&C received an investment purchase request 
form for her. 
And, having regard to investment purchase request forms Ive seen supplied on 
different complaints for other TPO-introduced consumers who invested L&C SIPP 
monies in Store First, all appear to have a question about whether advice had been 
provided on the proposed investment. Where it had there was a section for the adviser 
to complete (including a box for their FSA number(s)). In none of the forms Ive seen 
was the section to be completed by an adviser, if advice had been given, completed.
From the point in time it first started receiving investment purchase request forms from TPO-
introduced consumers for Store First investments, I think L&C was on notice from the 
content of those forms that TPO might not have given consumers any advice on Store First 
investments.
TPO was a regulated business that had permissions to advise on the establishment of a 
SIPP, the transfer of monies into that SIPP and where monies would be invested post-
transfer. But I think that from very early on L&C was aware, or ought to have been aware, 
that TPO wasnt a firm that was doing things in a conventional way.
Its unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in transactions involving pension 
transfers to invest in high risk esoteric investments, such as the Store First investment, 
where no advice is being given by that firm on the esoteric investment. Thats because the 
risks involved in such investments are unlikely to be fully understood by most people, without 
obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say that most advice firms decline to be involved 
in such transactions.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with TPO. And I think L&C 
ought to have recognised that there was a risk that TPO might be choosing to introduce 
consumers without their having been offered regulated advice by TPO on the unregulated 
investments that their transfers to L&C were being effected to make. I think L&C ought to 
have viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a clear and obvious potential risk 
of consumer detriment in this case.
And I think this concern ought to have been even greater in a case like Ms Cs where a DB 
Scheme was involved. At the relevant date COBS 19.1.6G stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
While I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining the suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the regulators concern 
about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. Given the 
nature of its business and regulatory status, Id expect L&C to have been familiar with the 
guidance contained in the COBS  even if it didnt apply directly to it. This was a further clear 
and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment.The involvement of an unregulated business
As Ive mentioned above, from the point in time it first started receiving investment purchase 
request forms from TPO-introduced consumers for Store First investments, I think L&C was 
on notice from the content of those forms that TPO might not have given consumers any 
advice on Store First investments.
Having carefully considered the available evidence, including Mr Ps comments referenced 
above, and investment purchase request forms Ive seen in other complaints against L&C 
where TPO was the introducer, I think its more likely than not that most, if not all, TPO-
introduced L&C consumers were doing the same thing. By which I mean that SIPP 
application forms to establish an L&C SIPP were being submitted for TPO-introduced L&C 
consumers recording that advice was given at the point of sale by TPO, pension monies 
were then being transferred into the newly established L&C SIPPs for those consumers, 
and, subsequently, they were submitting an investment purchase request form to L&C to 
invest in Store First and where the section of that form for an adviser to complete if advice 
had been proffered was blank. 
If L&C believed that TPO was advising consumers on the Store First investment, I think L&C 
ought to have questioned this anomaly in the investment purchase request forms it was 
receiving. And I think it ought to have done this from the point in time that it first started 
receiving such forms from TPO-introduced consumers.
To be clear, I dont think its credible that most, or all, of these TPO-introduced consumers 
were independently determining to invest their pension monies in Store First without any 
input from a third party. Given what L&C ought reasonably to have identified about the 
business it was receiving from TPO had it undertaken adequate due diligence, I think this 
should have been a significant cause for concern for L&C and caused it to consider the 
business it was receiving from TPO very carefully. I think that L&C ought to have been alive 
to the risk that an unregulated third party might have been involved in promoting the Store 
First investments to investors, like Ms C, and that consumers might not have been receiving 
any regulated advice from TPO on their Store First investments. 
L&C obtained a report from a firm named Enhanced Support Solutions Limited. This report 
stated that Store First was promoting its products in the UK through Harley Scott Holdings 
Limited. And it was, or ought to have been, apparent from paperwork that L&C received, 
such as the Store First reservation form, that Jackson Francis was also involved in the 
process. Neither Harley Scott Holdings Limited nor Jackson Francis were regulated by the 
FSA/FCA.
Following the investigators assessment L&C was provided with some information it might 
not have previously seen on this complaint, including testimony from Ms C on Jackson 
Francis role in proceedings and TPOs suitability report. Im satisfied from Ms Cs 
recollections and the content of TPOs suitability report that Jackson Francis was involved in 
promoting the Store First investment to Ms C.
Even if the promotion of Store First wasnt a regulated activity, this was nonetheless another 
clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment  particularly where pension investors 
were being targeted, as appears to be the case here.
Its unlikely retail clients like Ms C were proactively deciding to transfer their pension 
provisions to a SIPP in order to invest in Store First without the involvement of a third party. 
And Im satisfied thats consistent with the testimony Ms C has provided on this issue.I think that L&C should have been alive to the risks associated with an unregulated firm 
promoting an unregulated investment for SIPPs to consumers being introduced to L&C, and 
which investment was unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. Thats 
especially true in circumstances like this where I think L&C ought to have identified that 
regulated advice, on the unregulated investment that consumers pensions monies were 
being transferred to L&C to effect, wasnt being offered to those consumers by the IFA who 
was introducing their business to L&C.
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken, in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment  
which I think were clear and obvious at the time  it should not accept applications from 
TPO. That would have been a fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances. 
Alternatively, L&C could have taken fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks 
of consumer detriment. 
Requesting information directly from TPO
Given the significant potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due 
diligence on TPO, L&C ought to have found out more about how TPO was operating and 
before it accepted Ms Cs application. Mindful of the type of introductions I think it was 
receiving from TPO, and the content of investment purchase request forms it was receiving 
for TPO-introduced consumers, I think its fair and reasonable to expect L&C, in-line with its 
regulatory obligations, to have made some very specific enquiries and obtained information 
about TPOs business model.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report explained that the regulator would 
expect SIPP operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to 
be gathered and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed 
in an appropriate way for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, or 
by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification..
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance gave an example of good practice as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
I think that L&C, and before it received Ms Cs application from TPO, should have checked 
with TPO about: how it came into contact with potential clients, what agreements it had in 
place with its clients, whether all of the clients it was introducing were being offered full 
advice, what its arrangements with any unregulated businesses were, how and why retail 
clients were interested in making Store First investments, whether it was aware of anyone 
else providing information to clients, how it was able to meet with or speak with all its clients, 
and what material was being provided to clients by it.
I think obtaining this type of information from TPO was a fair and reasonable step for L&C to 
take, in the circumstances, to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice.
And, on balance, I think its more likely than not that if L&C had checked with TPO and 
asked the type of questions Ive mentioned above that TPO would have provided a full 
response to the information sought. In the alternative, if TPO had been unwilling to answer such questions if theyd been put to it 
by L&C, I think L&C should simply then have declined to accept introductions from TPO.
Making independent checks
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C, 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, to have taken independent 
steps to enhance its understanding of the introductions it was receiving from TPO. For 
example, it could have asked for copies of correspondence in which applicants were being 
offered advice.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said that:
we would expect (SIPP operators) to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis)
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
So I think it would have been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Ms C, directly and/or to seek copies of the suitability reports.
I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it had to take reasonable steps to meet its regulatory 
obligations. And in my view such steps included addressing a potential risk of consumer 
detriment by speaking to applicants and/or having sight of advice letters, as this could have 
provided L&C with further insight into TPOs business model. It could also have helped to 
clarify to L&C whether full regulated advice on the overall proposition was being offered to 
consumers, including on the Store First investment that TPO-introduced consumers pension 
monies were being transferred to L&C to effect. These were fair and reasonable steps to 
take in reaction to the clear and obvious risks of consumer detriment Ive mentioned.
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it accepted Ms Cs application:
TPO was having business referred to it by introducers, like Jackson Francis, and it 
was then introducing business to L&C.
TPO wasnt offering consumers it was introducing to L&C (like Ms C) advice on the 
suitability, or otherwise, of the high risk unregulated Store First investment that their 
L&C SIPPs were being established, and that their monies were being transferred to 
L&C, to effect.
Consumers might have been sold on the idea of transferring pension monies so as 
to invest in Store First before the involvement of any regulated parties.The anomalous features Ive mentioned above carried a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Each of these in isolation is significant, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with the introductions L&C received 
from TPO. I think that L&C ought to have had real concerns that TPO wasnt acting in 
customers best interests, and wasnt meeting its regulatory obligations.
Had L&C carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, I think it should have identified 
that consumers (like Ms C) introduced by TPO hadnt been offered, or received, regulated 
advice from TPO on the suitability, or otherwise, of the high risk unregulated investment that 
their pension monies were being transferred to L&C so as to effect.
In Ms Cs case, TPOs suitability report says that TPO doesnt recommend she transfer her 
DB scheme, but TPO still proactively offers to assist in effecting the transfer if Ms C wants to 
transfer to make one or more investments that arent permitted in her (then) existing pension 
arrangement. TPO mentions that Ms Cs acceptance of risk was low to medium and that 
alternative investments represented a higher risk than appeared appropriate for Ms Cs risk 
profile.
TPO states that it had been advised by Jackson Francis that Ms C wanted to transfer her 
monies into a SIPP so as to make investments that werent permitted within her existing 
arrangement. TPO says that if Ms Cs overriding intention was to transfer, it would be happy 
to assist her with transferring her monies to L&C. TPO does this without offering any advice 
on the specific Store First investment, stating that its not able to assist with advice of this 
nature while at the same time enclosing application forms for the consumer to complete and 
return to TPO, so that the transfer could proceed. Ive seen advice letters from TPO which 
adopt a similar approach on a number of other complaints weve received against L&C 
where TPO was the introducer (copies of which have previously been sent to L&C on other 
complaints). 
As Ive mentioned above, its unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in 
transactions involving pension transfers to invest in high risk esoteric investments, such as 
the Store First investment, where no advice is being given by that firm on the specific 
esoteric investment. Thats because the risks involved in such investments are unlikely to be 
fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say 
that most advice firms decline to be involved in such transactions.
So, the approach TPO was taking was an unusual role for a regulated advice firm to take. In 
the SIPP application form it was stated that advice was given at the point of sale. However, 
TPO wasnt discussing the specific risks associated with the Store First investment with 
consumers it was introducing to L&C, even though the reason those consumers were 
establishing L&C SIPPs, and transferring pension monies to L&C, was so as to effect the 
Store First investment. This raises significant questions about the motivations and 
competency of TPO  particularly where consumers were being introduced by an 
unregulated business like Jackson Francis.
Had L&C taken appropriate steps, such as seeking clarification from some applicants 
introduced by TPO at the time, like Ms C, and/or requesting copies of some suitability 
reports for TPO-introduced consumers, I think its more likely than not that the information 
L&C obtained would have accorded with what TPO was stating in its suitability reports at the 
time, and with what Mr P is quoted as saying in the FCAs 14 May 2021 final notice 
mentioned above. Namely, that TPO wasnt offering consumers it was introducing any advice on the high risk unregulated investments, like Store First, that their pension monies 
were being transferred to invest in.
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded Ms C  and applicants before her  werent 
being offered regulated advice by TPO on the unregulated investment that their pension 
monies were being transferred to L&C to effect. And I think that L&C ought to have viewed 
this as a significant point of concern. Retail consumers, like Ms C, were transferring pension 
monies, including DB schemes, to L&C to invest in higher-risk esoteric investments like 
Store First, and without the benefit of having been offered any regulated advice on that 
investment by the IFA who was introducing their business to L&C.
I also think L&C should have concluded that consumers introduced by TPO who were 
investing in Store First might have been sold on the Store First investments by an 
unregulated third party. Im satisfied TPOs suitability report supports such a conclusion and I 
think, if asked, Ms C would have explained how her Store First application came about  
which, as I mention, was likely the result of the involvement of the unregulated business 
Jackson Francis.
So, I think that L&C should have identified that the business it was receiving from TPO, 
whereby TPO wasnt offering consumers it was introducing to L&C (like Ms C) advice on the 
suitability, or otherwise, of the high risk unregulated Store First investment that their monies 
were being transferred to L&C to effect, raised serious questions about the motivation and 
competency of TPO. 
And I think L&C should have concluded, and before it accepted Ms Cs business from TPO, 
that it shouldnt accept introductions from TPO. I therefore conclude that its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to say that L&C shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs application 
from TPO.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Ms C fairly by accepting her application from TPO. To my mind, L&C didnt meet its 
regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed Ms C to be 
put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
L&C shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs introduction from TPO at all. And, to be clear, even if I 
thought L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence on Store First and acted appropriately 
in permitting that investment into its SIPPs (which, as I explain below, I dont), Id still 
consider it fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Cs complaint on the basis of what Ive already 
set out above  that L&C shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs introduction from TPO in the first 
place. However, for completeness, Ive also gone on to consider the due diligence that L&C 
carried out on the Store First investment. 
L&Cs due diligence on Store First
Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, L&C was 
required to consider whether to accept or reject a particular investment (here Store First), 
with the Principles in mind.
I think that its fair and reasonable to expect L&C to have looked carefully at the Store First 
investment before permitting it into its SIPPs. To be clear, for L&C to accept the Store First 
investment without carrying out a level of due diligence that was consistent with its 
regulatory obligations, while asking its customer to accept warnings absolving it of the 
consequences, wouldnt in my view be fair and reasonable or sufficient. And if L&C didnt 
look at the investment in detail, and if such a detailed look would have revealed that  
potential investors might be being misled, or that the investment might not be secure or might be fraudulent, it wouldnt in my view be fair or reasonable to say L&C had exercised 
due skill, care and diligence  or treated its customer fairly  by accepting such an 
investment.
L&C has provided us with some evidence of the due diligence it undertook into Store First.
L&C has provided a copy of a report by Enhanced Support Solutions Limited dated 22 March 
2011. Amongst other things, the report says that:
The Store First investment concerned ownership of individual leasehold storage units 
within a storage facility. 
Individual units were held under a 250-year lease.
Units were sub-let to a management company subject to a six-year term.
To provide income through the sub-lease to Store First Management Limited 
(SFML), SFML rented the units, under licence, to end users.
The seller of the sub-lease was Store First and the UK promoter was Harley Scott 
Holdings Limited.
A CCJ was issued against the promoter of the scheme, but Enhanced Support 
Solutions Limited understood this arose from a disputed invoice which was in the 
course of being settled.
The leasehold interest could be sold/assigned at any time.
It was anticipated that the individual value would primarily be based on the rental 
income achieved. A standard valuation could be obtained as per any property from a 
RICS surveyor.
The lease was on commercial terms with SFML. The scheme member shouldnt use 
the storage space for their own use to avoid any personal benefit being derived.
As the investment was unregulated, no protection was offered through the FSCS.
The review had been based on information supplied by Harley Scott Holdings 
Limited.
Where used by a SIPP operator, a scheme member 'high risk/illiquid' disclaimer 
could be considered.
The SIPP operator should engage legal advice on conveyancing.
The investment was approved for SIPP investment by an Enhanced Support 
Solutions Limited consultant on 5 April 2011. 
On 23 August 2012 an L&C employee (as I understand it an investment support manager) 
emailed several colleagues at L&C, including L&Cs Director & Head of Compliance. The 
email was titled Store First  Review and stated that:
Following the receipt of the SIP Member Update which mentioned that (Mr Ws) firm 
faces tax investigation' we immediately imposed a temporary suspension on all Store 
First investments pending further investigation. I advised all three IFA introducers by 
telephone that we have a technical issue and have imposed a temporary suspension 
until we resolve.
I have carried out an investigation and based on the information obtained my findings 
follow:
Findings
1) The tax investigation is into Harley Scott Group of companies and this does not 
currently extend to Store first or its parent Group First. We have received written 
confirmation of this from Pierce Accountants.2) It is not apparent that Harley Scott is linked to Store First or Group First in anyway 
other than that (Mr W) is a director and shareholder in all.
(there is no 3)
4) (Mr Ws) business dealings seem to attract the label of 'controversial' in press 
articles.
5) (An employee of) SIPP Investment Platform Limited confirmed that he has an 
increased level of enquiries on Store First (I suspect in response to their member 
bulletin) and metioned (sic) that some providers are not allowing investment into 
Storefirst, and that others are awaiting their report. He was unable to provide any 
further additional information. They are starting their review of this investment at the 
moment and the report will not be available for a few weeks.
6) (An employee of) Hetheringtons Solictors (sic) confirmed that Harley Scott is a 
separate company to Store First, and added that as we are purchasing a lease she 
believes that a (sic) even if a tax investigation was to be carried out on Store First it 
should have no detrimental affect on our purchase. She was of the opinion that we 
did not need to be concerned by the tax investigation.
Recommendation
My recommendation would be to lift the suspension with immediate effect to be 
reviewed again upon receipt new information or the SIP report whichever is sooner. If 
everyone is in agreement then I will also confirm to the IFAs introducing the business 
that we have lifted the suspension pending the detailed DD report being carried out 
by SIP. I suggest that we also make a weekly internet search of the above until the 
SIP report is available.
Please confirm if you are all in agreement.
Ive seen two replies from two different individuals, including from L&Cs Director & Head of 
Compliance, to the 23 August 2012 email. The effect of the responses is to support the 
recommendation and its noted in one of the responses that:
Good investigation and analysis. Your recommendations are agreed by me.

we should probably check to see if the Storepods investment is captured by the 
latest FSA initiative re UCIS or UCIS-type investments as this will determine whether 
we should be vetting the apps to check that the clients are Sophisticated/High Net 
Worth etc.

(Name of investment support manager) will you also give (L&C colleague) the go 
ahead to process the apps.
On 17 January 2013 the same investment support manager at L&C sent an email to a L&C 
sales team address and a L&C property address. The subject of the email was Subject: 
Storefirst - Storepods - Self Storage Units - Suspension of investment and the email said 
that:
We have with, immediate effect, suspended all new investments in the above.
Storefirst have failed to provide us with certain ongoing monitoring information within 
a reasonable timescale and our Investment Committee have decided that we suspend all new investments. This includes any applications we have already 
received.
Please would you make sure you update any of your IFA's who submit Storefirst - 
Storepod applications immediately. I believe that the majority are submitted by The 
Pensions Office and Real SIPP. I suggest that if you are questioned then you say 
something like 'we have requested an update on the progress of the facilities 
and a response has not been forthcoming'.
Weve been provided with an ongoing monitoring report by L&Cs investment support 
manager dated 26 February 2013. Its noted amongst other things in the report that:
L&C had requested an update on the progress of the investment. 
Store First hadnt provided information within a reasonable timescale, so L&C had 
decided to temporarily suspend any pending or new investment into Store First.
The total value of L&Cs Storepod purchases was £1,400,000 as at end of January 
2013. 
This was made up of 53 different SIPP members equating to an average holding per 
member of £26,415.
It was looking to check that Store First was delivering on the promises made to 
investors.
It had asked Store First for the following:
The present sites that we have accepted are Barnsley, Liverpool, Rochdale and 
Blackburn. Please can you confirm if the units have been built and are ready for 
leasing.
If any of the sites have been built can you confirm if any of the units we have 
purchased have been rented out or if they are still working under the guaranteed 
rental agreement set out in the contracts.
1) Report & Accounts for each company
2) Plan of each site detailing all storage units
3) How many storage units on each site have been completed to date
4) How many storage units on each site have not been completed to date
5) How many storage units on each site have been let to date
6) Have any of the storage units subsequently been sold, how many, at what price 
compared with the original purchase price
7) How many storage units we own on each site
The report continued noting that:
Members are provided with an outline of costs and sample legal documents by L&C 
before entering into any obligation to purchase. Purchases only proceed once 
members have confirmed that theyre happy with the documents and fees.
It insists on a valuation for each site from an appropriately qualified valuer, and its 
property team obtain valuations on a six-monthly basis for each site.
All Storepod purchases are made via scheme appointed lawyers and have clear title 
and are registered individually at HM Land Registry.
L&Cs property team had advised that rent was coming in as expected with no 
issues. All of the Storepods were (then) within the rent guarantee period.
Store First appeared to have made all of their annual returns and submitted accounts 
as required. 
A SIPP Investment Platform (SIP) Review was carried out by SIPs precursor Enhance Support Solutions in 2011 (as I understand it this is the Enhance Support 
Solutions Limited report Ive referred to elsewhere in this decision).
Store First had provided L&C with the information it had requested.
L&C hadnt verified information and commentary provided by Store First regarding 
timescales, achievable rent, resale values, and market research. However, the 
valuations provided appear to support Store Firsts claims.
Its appropriate that L&C carry out checks from time to time to ensure that the 
investment is operating as promised by the investment provider.
It appears that Storepods are being sold constructed and let out as promised. Rent is 
being received, and the purchases are all being made as expected. The Hetherington 
Partnership had no cause for concern and legal title was being registered at HM 
Land Registry.
There didnt appear to be cause for concern at this stage, but due to the unregulated 
nature of the investment and large sums of money already invested L&C should 
exercise continued caution.
The recommendation was to continue ongoing monitoring and to lift the suspension 
immediately. Further, that any new sites from the same corporate entities with an 
identical set up to those L&C had already invested in wouldnt need to pass through 
SIP.
Weve been provided with some of the correspondence thats referred to in the 26 February 
2013 report. But, Ive not seen copies of the emails that were exchanged between L&Cs 
investment support manager and Group First/Store First on 21 January 2013, 24 January 
2013, 28 January 2013 and 5 February 2013  this included correspondence with Mr W. Ive 
also not seen copies of emails that are referred to between L&Cs investment support 
manager and The Hetherington Partnership on 19 February 2013. I explained in my 
provisional decision that L&C should provide a copy of these emails to me alongside its 
response to my provisional decision. L&C hasnt provided me with copies of these emails 
alongside its response to my provisional decision.
Group First emailed L&Cs investment support manager on 9 January 2013 and it was stated 
that some of the information that had been requested was being enclosed. This included 
reports and accounts for each company, a plan of each site, a current valuation and site 
information.
Ive seen copies of the site plans and a copy of the valuation. But Ive not seen the content of 
the response provided by Group First/Store First to the other queries L&C raised. Including, 
amongst other things, information about the number of storage units that had been 
completed on each site, the number of storage units that had been let to date and whether 
any storage units had been sold and, if so, the price theyd been sold at compared to the 
original purchase price. I explained in my provisional decision that L&C should provide me 
with a copy of Store Firsts responses to it to these questions alongside its response to my 
provisional decision. L&C hasnt provided me with a copy of Store Firsts responses to it to 
these questions alongside its response to my provisional decision.
The valuation report was undertaken by a chartered surveyor who had received instructions 
from Group First to inspect a Storage Pods property in Barnsley. The valuer said amongst 
other things that:
The property is likely to enjoy a fair level of occupational demand by virtue of its site, 
general characteristics and condition.

We consider there are unlikely to be any significant fluctuations in the general levels 
of both rental and capital values.
The individual store pods are held on a 250 year Long leasehold basis with a ground 
rent of £12.50 per sq ft payable. There is a service charge of £1.95 per sq ft payable. 
A management fee of 15% of the rent receivable is charged by Store First.
The store pods are sublet back to Store First at a rental of £17 per sq ft per annum 
on an 86 year lease. There are fixed upwards-only rent reviewed every two years.

There had been a general downturn in the commercial property market over the past 
four years. This has affected all types of commercial properties with a large reduction 
in values from the peak of the market in Autumn 2007.
Theres then a section titled Capital Value with a table that reads as follows:
 
On 8 March 2013, the investment support manager at L&C sent an email to a number of 
L&C colleagues. The subject of the email was Storefirst - New Sites and the email said 
that:
As we agreed - The property team can proceed with investments in the following 
sites on the basis that we have already carried out a review of the existing 
sites/investment and that we must have received and accepted a valuation of the site 
for the specific purchase. We have already carried out a recent review of the 
contracting entities involved in the existing sites and it is our understanding that the 
entities will be the same for new sites.
Barnsley x1
Blackburn x3
Burnley x2
Ellesmere Port x1 (aka Cheshire Oaks)
Glasgow x1
Leeds x1
Liverpool x2
Rochdale x2
Preston x1
Wakefield x1
Property Team - Please ensure you have received a valuation for each site and that 
it has been accepted by us. If you detect any changes to contracts or companies 
involved then please notify Corporate Governance immediately.
(L&C colleague) please put this in the Storefirst file.
Having carefully considered all of the information thats been made available to us to date, I 
dont think L&Cs actions went far enough. As I explain in more detail below, Im not currently 
satisfied that L&C undertook sufficient due diligence on the Store First investment before it 
decided to accept that investment into its SIPPs. As such, in my view, L&C didnt comply 
with its regulatory obligations and good practice, and it didnt act fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms C, by not undertaking sufficient due diligence on the Store First investment 
before it accepted Ms Cs application to invest in Store First.
Further, based on what it knew or ought to have known had it undertaken sufficient due 
diligence, I think L&C failed to draw a reasonable conclusion on accepting the Store First 
investment into its SIPPs.
If L&C had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
discovered?
I note that some information about the Store First investment was compiled by Enhance 
Support Solutions Limited. That firm provided L&C with a brief report and, amongst other 
things, the report said that no adverse history had been found about the seller of the sub-
lease, Store First, or the UK promoter, Harley Scott Holdings Limited.
Reference was made to a CCJ being recorded against Harley Scott Holdings Limited and 
Enhance Support Solutions Limited said that it understood this arose from a disputed invoice 
that was in the course of being settled. Enhance Support Solutions Limited doesnt expand 
on how its come to that understanding, but it does say elsewhere in its report that This 
review has been based on information supplied by email fromHarley Scott Holdings 
Limited.
In my view, it would have been fair and reasonable for L&C to have conducted some further 
basic independent searches following its receipt of Enhance Support Solutions Limiteds 
report. I think thats especially true in the circumstances given the fact that Enhance Support 
Solutions Limited acknowledged its review was premised on information supplied by Harley 
Scott Holdings Limited.
Enhance Support Solutions Limiteds report was mentioned in the 26 February 2013 ongoing 
monitoring report by L&Cs investment support manager. Its not clear how much weight L&C 
placed on Enhance Support Solutions Limiteds report before first permitting Store First 
investments to be held in its SIPPs. However, in my view Enhance Support Solutions 
Limiteds report was of limited value. It was cursory, it states its based on material emailed 
to it by Harley Scott Holdings Limited and it makes no comment on the obvious issues with 
the Store First marketing material. So, I dont think L&C should have taken much comfort 
from Enhance Support Solutions Limiteds report or attached any significant weight to it.
Had basic independent searches been completed by L&C following its receipt of Enhance 
Support Solutions Limiteds report, I think its more likely than not that theyd have shown 
that Dylan Harvey Group Limited (Harley Scott Holdings Limiteds previous business name 
before a name change in June 2010) and one of its directors, Mr W, had been the subject of 
national press reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed 
property investment. It was reported that hundreds of investors had invested money in a 
scheme to develop flats, but the flats had not been built and the investors had been unable 
to recover their money. Mr W was also a director of Store First. Some of these things were 
briefly mentioned in the internal L&C email of 23 August 2012 Ive mentioned above.
I think a basic search of Harley Scott Holdings Limiteds filing history would also have shown 
issues being raised by Harley Scott Holdings Limiteds then auditors at the start of 2010, 
which resulted in their resignation. And that in Harley Scott Holdings Limiteds accounts made up to 28 February 2009, auditors had highlighted that theyre materially uncertain as to 
the future of Harley Scott Holdings Limited.
Importantly, and consistent with its regulatory obligations, I think that when undertaking due 
diligence into the proposed Store First investment that L&C should have had regard to, and 
given careful consideration to, Store Firsts marketing material. 
Store Firsts marketing material from the relevant period included the following prominent 
statements: 
You will receive guaranteed returns from a 6 year lease already in place upon 
completion, making this a high yielding, hassle-free investment which has been 
specifically designed to meet the needs of todays astute investor. 
You will receive a 6 year lease in place upon completion. The lease produces an 
excellent return of 8% (guaranteed for the first 2 years) rising to over 12% in years 5 
and 6. The lease contains upward-only rental reviews and break clauses for both 
parties every two years. 
The marketing material also sets out in a table the returns payable in years 1&2, 3&4 and 
5&6 at 8%, 10% and 12%. In the Your Questions Answered section the following is 
included: 
What rental income can I expect? 
Storepod rental starts at £17 per Sq/Ft per annum (+ VAT). The 6 year tenancy/lease 
in place on your Storepod has fixed upwards only rental reviews and break clauses 
(for both parties) every 2 years. This produces an 8% yield on your investment within 
the first two years, this then is predicted to rise to over 10% return in years 3&4 and 
then surpass 12% return in years 5&6. 
Can I easily re-sell my Storepod? 
Yes, you can re-sell your Storepod at any time and selling your Storepod couldnt be 
simpler. Store First Ltd can market your Storepod upon your request. We believe that 
because Storepods are so competitively priced when new, they will make a very 
attractive sale proposition in the future. We also expect that many tenants will wish to 
purchase the Storepod they are using. For example, other self storage PLCs usually 
achieve rent of between £20.00 - £25.00 per square foot. Our Storepods are costed 
at a rent of only £17.00 per square foot; once higher rents are achieved the capital 
value of the Storepod will increase. 
Guaranteed exit route? 
In year 5, investors have the option to enter the guaranteed buy-back scheme. In this 
scheme, Store First Management Ltd will guarantee to buy the Storepod back off the 
investor for the original price paid within the next 5 years. This is a unique offer in the 
market place and we are happy to be able to offer this exit route to our investors. 
Most investors are driven to keep the property investment they have purchased and 
carry on receiving the rental yield produced for years to come, this means only a very 
limited number of Storepods per centre will ever come onto the resale market, this 
creates a high sale value and demand for the future. The marketing material says the figures shown are for illustration purposes. But it does not 
contain any type of risk warning, or illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the 
guarantees was offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own 
confidence in its business model and the self-storage marketplace. 
L&Cs internal August 2012 email records that an employee of SIP confirmed that thered 
been an increased level of enquiries on Store First and that some providers were not 
allowing investments in Store First, and that others were awaiting SIPs report. It was noted 
that this report wouldnt be available for a few weeks.
As I understand it, L&C opted not to wait for the report from SIP before continuing to permit 
Store First investments to be held in its SIPPs. L&C later decided to suspend further 
investments being made in Store First in January 2013, noting that Store First had failed to 
provide it with information requested in a reasonable timescale.
I can see some questions that L&C asked Store First, as theyre set out in correspondence 
weve been provided alongside L&Cs ongoing monitoring report of 26 February 2013. Aside 
from question 7) How many storage units we (L&C) own on each site, the other questions 
set out in the correspondence are all questions that I think L&C ought to have asked Store 
First before it permitted consumers, like Ms C, to invest in Store First though their L&C SIPP. 
Ive not seen that L&C did this.
Ive also not seen the answers that L&C received from Store First to the questions How 
many storage units on each site have been let to date and Have any of the storage units 
subsequently been sold, how many, at what price compared with the original purchase 
price. 
I do think L&C having concerns about these issues on an ongoing basis and asking these 
questions was good practice. But I also think that questions like these were relevant to 
establishing an understanding of the nature of the investment and trying to ensure the 
investment was genuine at outset. Such that L&C should also have obtained answers to 
questions akin to these before it allowed Store First investments to be held in any of its 
SIPPs.
And I think thats especially true in circumstances like these where, as I explain below, I think 
that L&C should have identified, and before permitting the Store First investments to be held 
in its SIPPs, that there was a significant risk that potential investors were being misled by 
Store Firsts marketing material.
To be clear, if Store First was unwilling or unable to fully answer L&Cs questions and to 
provide information sought then I think, consistent with its regulatory obligations and good 
practice L&C should simply have concluded it wouldnt permit Store First investments to be 
held within its SIPPs.
If L&C had completed sufficient due diligence on Store First, what ought it reasonably 
to have concluded? 
The failure of the previous scheme which Dylan Harvey Group Limited/Harley Scott Holdings 
had been involved in may have been entirely down to market forces. But I think the fact that 
Store Firsts UK promoter, who was commented on in Enhance Support Solutions Limiteds 
report and who had supplied information that was relied upon in that report, had recently 
been involved in a property investment scheme which had failed, had recently changed its 
name and had relatively recently been subject to some adverse comments following audit, 
ought to have given L&C cause for concern. Particularly when considered alongside the content of Store Firsts marketing material and the fact that L&C had identified that (Mr Ws) 
business dealings seem to attract the label of 'controversial' in press articles. 
In my view there were a number of things about Store Firsts marketing material which ought 
to have given L&C significant cause for concern and to have led it to have drawn similar 
conclusions to those later drawn by the SSA UK on the basis of a report by Deloitte LLP and 
the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled. 
Store First appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to provide 
high and rising returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity 
together with a strong prospect of a capital return  despite the fact that there was no 
investor protection associated with the investment and the investment was potentially illiquid. 
Store First had no proven track record for investors, so L&C couldnt be certain that the 
investment operated as claimed. L&C should also have been very concerned about a 
guarantee offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by a business with 
a questionable one). 
I think, in light of this, L&C should have been concerned that consumers may have been 
misled or didnt properly understand the investment they intended to make. Consumers 
could easily have been given the impression, from the marketing material, that they were 
assured of high returns with little or no risk and would easily be able to sell their investment 
when they wished to. Such an impression was clearly misleading. 
And I note that in an internal L&C email we received on a different complaint, dated 21 
January 2015, L&Cs Corporate Governance Director raised concerns internally about some 
information Store First was publishing, they noted that:
 it still remains to be seen whether the sites will "mature" as Storefirst describe it, 
to the point that rentals start coming in and a secondary market for sales evolves.
I do think that their website is misleading on a number of fronts. I have an email in 
drafting to bring this to their attention. 
From the evidence Ive seen I think the information Store First was publishing before Ms Cs 
L&C monies were invested with it, including marketing material available through its website, 
gave rise to a significant risk that potential investors were being misled by Store First. I think 
L&Cs Corporate Governance Directors comments in 2015 were equally applicable in 2012. 
And I think that L&C ought to have identified this before permitting the Store First investment 
into its SIPPs. This is a clear point of concern, which I think L&C ought reasonably to have 
identified before it accepted Ms Cs application to invest in Store First.
In my opinion, the issues Ive identified above should have, when considered objectively, put 
L&C on notice that there was a significant risk of consumer detriment. And, without more 
evidence to ensure the investment was an appropriate one to permit within its SIPPs, Im 
satisfied that L&C shouldnt have accepted the Store First investment. 
In my opinion its fair and reasonable to say that L&C ought to have concluded there was an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment here. All in all, I am satisfied that L&C ought to have had 
significant concerns about the Store First investment from the beginning. And I think such 
concerns ought to have been a red flag for L&C when it was considering whether to accept 
the Store First investments into its SIPPs. Such concerns emphasise the importance of 
sufficient due diligence being undertaken before investments are accepted and before SIPP 
investors monies are invested.Had L&C done what it ought to have done, and drawn reasonable conclusions from what it 
knew or ought to have known, I think that it ought to have concluded there was a significant 
risk of consumer detriment if it accepted the Store First investment into its SIPPs and that 
the Store First investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPPs. 
As such, and based on the available evidence, I dont think L&C undertook appropriate steps 
or drew reasonable conclusions from the information that Im satisfied would have been 
available to it, had it undertaken adequate due diligence into the Store First investment 
before it accepted that investment into its SIPPs. I dont think L&C met its regulatory 
obligations and, in accepting Ms Cs application to invest in Store First, it allowed Ms Cs 
funds to be put at significant risk.
To be clear, I dont say L&C should have identified all the issues the SSA UK press release 
set out or to have foreseen the issues which later came to light with Store First. I only say 
that, based on the information available to L&C at the relevant time, it should have drawn a 
similar overall conclusion  that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled. Im satisfied, on a fair and reasonable basis, that a significant risk of consumer 
detriment ought to have been apparent from the information available to L&C at the time. 
And I do think that appropriate checks would have revealed issues which were, in and of 
themselves, sufficient basis for L&C to have declined to accept the Store First investment in 
its SIPPs before Ms C invested in it. And its the failure of L&Cs due diligence thats resulted 
in Ms C being treated unfairly and unreasonably.
Theres a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular investment for a SIPP and 
advising on its suitability for the individual investor. I accept that L&C wasnt expected to, nor 
was it able to, give advice to Ms C on the suitability of the SIPP and/or Store First investment 
for her personally. To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the 
suitability of the Store First investment for Ms C. I accept L&C had no obligation to give 
advice to Ms C, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for her.
And Im also not saying that L&C shouldnt have allowed the Store First investment into its 
SIPPs because it was high risk. My finding isnt that L&C should have concluded that Ms C 
wasnt a candidate for high risk investments or that an investment in Store First was 
unsuitable for Ms C. Instead, its my fair and reasonable opinion that there were things L&C 
knew or ought to have known about the Store First investment and how it was being 
marketed which ought to have led L&C to conclude it wouldnt be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations or good practice to allow it into its SIPPs. And that L&C failed to act 
with due skill, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly by accepting 
the Store First investments into her SIPP.
I think the fair and reasonable conclusion based on the evidence available is that L&C 
shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs application to invest in Store First. In my opinion, it ought to 
have concluded that it would not be consistent with its obligations to do so. To my mind, L&C 
didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and 
allowed Ms C to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Acting fairly and reasonably to investors (including Ms C), L&C should have concluded that it 
wouldnt permit the Store First investment to be held in its SIPPs at all. And Im satisfied that 
Ms Cs pension monies were only transferred to L&C so as to effect the Store First 
investment. So, I think its more likely than not that if L&C hadnt permitted the Store First 
investment to be held in its SIPPs at all that Ms Cs pension monies wouldnt have been 
transferred to L&C. Further, that Ms C wouldnt then have suffered the losses shes suffered 
as a result of transferring to L&C and investing in Store First.For the reasons given above, L&C shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs application to invest in 
Store First. And, to be clear, even if I thought L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence 
on TPO and acted appropriately in accepting Ms Cs business from TPO (which, as Ive 
explained earlier, I dont), Id still consider it fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Cs complaint 
on the basis that L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its 
affairs responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly, by accepting the Store First investments into her 
SIPP. 
I make this point here to emphasise that while Ive concluded both that L&C shouldnt have 
accepted Ms Cs business from TPO and also that it shouldnt have accepted her application 
to invest in Store First, had I only reached the conclusions Ive set out above on one of those 
aspects and not also gone on to reach findings on the other aspect for completeness, I'd still 
consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold this complaint. Thats 
because L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs 
responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly by accepting her business from TPO. And because, 
separately, L&C also didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its 
affairs responsibly, or treat Ms C fairly, by accepting the Store First investments into her 
SIPP. And to my mind, L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at 
the relevant times, and allowed Ms C to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Ms Cs 
application?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
For the reasons given above, I think L&C shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs business from 
TPO and I also think it shouldnt have accepted the Store First investment into her SIPP. So 
things shouldnt have got beyond that.
Further, in my view its fair and reasonable to say that just having Ms C sign declarations, 
wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations to treat her fairly, given the 
concerns L&C ought to have had about the business being introduced by TPO and the Store 
First investment.
L&C knew that Ms C had signed forms intended to acknowledge, amongst other things, her 
awareness of some of the risks involved with investing and to indemnify L&C against losses 
that arose from acting on her instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on the contents of such 
forms when L&C knew, or ought to have known, that both the type of business it was 
receiving from TPO and allowing the Store First investment to be held within its SIPPs would 
put investors at significant risk, wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. Having identified 
the risks Ive mentioned above, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing for L&C to do 
would have been to decline to accept Ms Cs business from TPO and to refuse to accept the 
Store First investment in her SIPP.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Ms C signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat her fairly. To be clear, 
Im satisfied that indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, nor 
do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to accept or reject investments or business.
So, Im satisfied that Ms Cs L&C SIPP shouldnt have been established and her L&C 
monies shouldnt have been invested in the Store First holdings. And that the opportunity for L&C to execute investment instructions to invest Ms Cs monies in Store First or proceed in 
reliance on an indemnity and/or risk disclaimers shouldnt have arisen at all. Im firmly of the 
view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to accept Ms Cs 
business from TPO or for it to accept her application to invest in Store First.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Ms C compensation in the circumstances?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Ms Cs complaint about L&C. However, I accept that other 
parties were involved in the transactions complained about  including TPO and Jackson 
Francis. 
Regarding TPO, Ms C pursued a complaint against TPO with the FSCS. The FSCS upheld 
Ms Cs complaint, it calculated Ms Cs losses to be in excess of £50,000 and paid her 
£50,000 compensation. Following this the FSCS provided Ms C with a reassignment of 
rights.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
In my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold L&C 
accountable for its own failure to comply with its regulatory obligations, good industry 
practice and to treat Ms C fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Ms C compensation 
for the loss shes suffered as a result of its failings. Ive carefully considered if theres any 
reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Ms C for her loss.
I accept that other parties, including TPO and/or Jackson Francis, might have some 
responsibility for initiating the course of action that led to Ms Cs loss. However, Im satisfied 
that its also the case that if L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as 
a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Ms C wouldnt have come about in the first place, and 
the loss shes suffered could have been avoided.
I want to make clear that Ive taken everything L&C has said into consideration. And its still 
my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Ms C to 
the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to L&Cs failings. And, having 
carefully considered everything, I dont think that it would be appropriate or fair in the 
circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&C is liable to pay to Ms C.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the suitability of the 
SIPP or the Store First holdings for Ms C. I accept that L&C wasnt obligated to give advice 
to Ms C, or otherwise to ensure the suitability of the pension wrapper or investments for her. 
Rather, Im looking at L&Cs separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Ms C taking responsibility for her own investment decisionsIn reaching my conclusions in this case Ive thought about section 5(2)(d) of the FSMA (now 
section 1C). This section requires the FCA, in securing an appropriate degree of protection 
for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their own investment decisions.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
say Ms Cs actions mean she should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings.
In my view, if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice it shouldnt have accepted Ms Cs business from TPO or accepted her application to 
invest in Store First at all. That should have been the end of the matter  if either of those 
things had happened, Im satisfied the arrangement for Ms C wouldnt have come about in 
the first place, and the loss shes suffered could have been avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate initial and ongoing due diligence on 
TPO and the Store First investment and reach the right conclusions. I think it failed to do 
this. And just having Ms C sign forms containing declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C 
meeting its obligations, or of escaping liability where it failed to meet its obligations.
TPO was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise Ms C on her pension 
provisions. Im satisfied that in her dealings with it, Ms C trusted TPO to act in her best 
interests. Ms C also then used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in L&C. 
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about Ms C being aware of the risks. L&C says 
that Ms C signed documents confirming that the Store First investment was high risk. L&C 
hasnt provided us with copies of the documents that it says Ms C signed confirming that the 
Store First investment was high risk. And, as I explain below, I dont agree that the evidence 
weve seen to date supports the contention that its more likely than not that Ms C 
understood the Store First investment was high risk. But, in any eventuality, this is a 
secondary point because, as mentioned above, if L&C had acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice Im satisfied the arrangement for Ms C 
wouldnt have come about in the first place.
So, overall, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair and 
reasonable to say L&C should compensate Ms C for the loss shes suffered. I dont think it 
would be fair to say in the circumstances that Ms C should suffer the loss because she 
ultimately instructed the transactions be effected.
Had L&C declined Ms Cs business from TPO, would the transactions complained about still 
have been effected elsewhere?
From the correspondence Ive seen, I think that Ms Cs pension monies were transferred to 
L&C to make the Store First investment. That position seems to be supported by the 
contents of TPOs suitability report, which says that ...it had been advised by Jackson 
Francis that she (Ms C) wanted to transfer her monies into a SIPP so as to make 
investments that werent permitted within her existing arrangement.
L&C might say that if it hadnt accepted Ms Cs application from TPO and/or permitted the 
Store First investment in its SIPPs, that the transfer and investment would still have been 
effected with a different SIPP provider. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that 
L&C shouldnt compensate Ms C for her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP 
operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found L&C did. I think its fair instead 
to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Ms Cs business from 
TPO or permitted the Store First investment into its SIPPs.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had 
refused to accept Ms Cs application from TPO and/or hadnt permitted the Store First 
investment in its SIPPs, the transactions wouldnt still have gone ahead and Ms C would 
have retained her monies in her DB Scheme.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
Ms C says she understood that her pension monies were being moved into a pension 
arrangement without risk and with high interest rates. L&C says that the investment 
purchase request form shows that Ms C understood the investment was high risk. 
As Ive mentioned above, Ive not seen the investment purchase request form Ms C 
completed, but Ive seen investment purchase request forms weve received on some other 
complaints where L&C consumers invested monies in Store First. I think the forms on these 
other cases are likely to be similar to the form Ms C completed. And the forms Ive seen on 
the other complaints simply say that the investment may be high risk, it doesnt say the 
investment is high risk. Further, the form appears to be generic, by which I mean it appears 
to be a form that could be used for a number of investments and it doesnt appear to be a 
form thats bespoke to the Store First investment. I can see why the term may might have 
been used because of this, but I dont agree the contents of that form support the contention 
that Ms C understood the Store First investment was high risk.
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Ms C was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot 
be said she was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, I remain 
satisfied that Ms C, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons 
other than securing the best pension for herself. 
So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams. And Im not satisfied that 
Ms C proceeded knowing that the investments she was making were high risk and 
speculative, and that she was determined to move forward with the transactions in order to 
take advantage of a cash incentive.
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that if L&C had refused to accept Ms Cs application from TPO and/or to permit 
Store First investments in its SIPPs, the transactions this complaint concerns wouldnt still 
have gone ahead.
Overall, I do think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Ms C compensation in the 
circumstances. While I accept that other parties might have some responsibility for initiating 
the course of action thats led to Ms Cs loss, I consider that L&C failed to comply with its 
own obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions proceeding by declining to accept 
Ms Cs applications when it had the opportunity to do so. And Im satisfied that Ms C 
wouldnt have established the L&C SIPP, transferred monies in from her DB Scheme or 
invested in Store First if it hadnt been for L&Cs failings.
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Ms C. In my view, in considering what fair compensation 
looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against L&C that requires it to compensate Ms C for the full measure of her loss. L&C accepted Ms Cs business from TPO 
and the Store First investments into its SIPPs and, but for L&Cs failings, Im satisfied that 
Ms Cs pension monies wouldnt have been transferred to L&C and invested in Store First.
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter. However, that 
fact shouldnt impact on Ms Cs right to fair compensation from L&C for the full amount of her 
loss. The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Ms C wouldnt have suffered the loss 
shes suffered. As such, Im of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for L&C to compensate Ms C to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to its 
failings, and notwithstanding any failings by other firms involved in the transactions.
I acknowledge that Ms C has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of her reassignment of rights require her to return compensation paid by the FSCS in 
the event this complaint is successful, and I understand that the FSCS will ordinarily enforce 
the terms of the assignment if required. So, I think its fair and reasonable to make no 
deduction in the redress calculation for the sum of compensation Ms C received from the 
FSCS. It will be for Ms C to make the arrangements to make any repayments she needs to 
make to the FSCS.
Ive noted what Ms C has said about the possibility of having previously sold some of her 
Store First holdings. Whether or not Ms C has previously managed to sell some of her Store 
First holdings doesnt alter my opinion that, but for L&Cs failings, Ms Cs pension monies 
wouldnt have been transferred to L&C and invested in Store First. Further, and from a 
redress perspective, Im satisfied that L&C will need to check whether there are still any 
Store First investments held in Ms Cs SIPP when it's performing the first step of the redress 
calculation I've set out below.
Ive noted what Ms Cs representative has said, about a 90 day payment period and interest, 
in response to the amended Putting things right section which was shared with both parties 
on 18 May 2023. Having carefully considered whats been said, I remain satisfied that the 
approach previously set out in the amended Putting things right section is a fair and 
reasonable approach.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that in the circumstances of this case its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C should have decided not to accept business 
from TPO and/or to accept the Store First investment to be held in its SIPPs before it had 
received Ms Cs application from TPO. I conclude that if L&C hadnt accepted Ms Cs 
introduction from TPO and/or the Store First investment to be held in its SIPPs, Ms C 
wouldnt have established a L&C SIPP, transferred her DB Scheme monies into it or 
invested in Store First. 
For the reasons Ive set out, I also think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to compensate 
Ms C for the loss shes suffered as a result of L&C accepting her business from TPO and 
permitting her to invest her L&C monies in Store First.
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgments but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.Putting things right
My aim is to return Ms C to the position shed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Ms Cs business from 
TPO and before permitting Ms C to invest her L&C monies in Store First.
L&C should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the 
position Ms C would be in if shed not transferred from her DB Scheme. In summary, 
L&C should:
1. Take ownership of the Store First investments if possible.
2. Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Ms Cs pension provisions 
have suffered as a result of L&C accepting her applications.
3. Pay Ms C £500 for the trouble and upset shes suffered.
I explain how L&C should carry out these steps in further detail below.
1. Take ownership of the Store First investments if possible.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any 
remaining Store First investments need to be removed from Ms Cs SIPP. To do 
this, L&C should calculate an amount its willing to accept for Ms Cs Store First 
investments and pay that sum into Ms Cs SIPP and take ownership of the Store 
First investments. Any sums paid into the SIPP to purchase the Store First 
investments will then make up part of the current actual value of the SIPP.
If L&Cs unable to purchase the Store First investments, the actual value of any 
Store First investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the 
purposes of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being 
given a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Ms Cs SIPP. 
I think that is fair because I think its unlikely the Store First investments will have 
any significant realisable value in the future. Further, I understand Ms C has the 
option of returning her Store First investments to the freeholder for nil 
consideration. And that should enable Ms C to close her SIPP if L&C is unable to 
take ownership of her Store First investments. 
In the event the Store First investments remain in the SIPP, as L&C is unable to 
purchase them and Ms C decides not to transfer them to the freeholder, Ms C 
should be aware that she will be liable for all future costs associated with the 
investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. She should also be aware its unlikely she will be able to make a 
further complaint about these costs.
2. Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Ms Cs pension provisions 
have suffered as a result of L&C accepting her applications.
I explained in my provisional decision that L&C should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance. And I said that:
Im aware that on 2 August 2022,  the FCA launched a consultation on changes 
to this guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current methodology in 
FG17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent necessary. However, 
its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or 
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 

A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules 
will come into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer 
compensation to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time 
being. But until changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of 
waiting for their compensation to be calculated in line with the new rules and 
guidance.
I think its fair for me to give Ms C the same choice. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss 
is identified, will provide fair redress for Ms C. And, having reviewed the FCAs 
consultation and policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair 
way to compensate Ms C in this case.
Therefore, if Ms C wishes to have her redress calculated in line with the new 
guidance and rules, I intend to ask L&C to undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the updated methodology as soon as the new rules and guidance come into 
effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with 
FG17/9).  
The aim of the new guidance and rules remains the same as in FG17/9, which is to 
put consumers in the position theyd be in if they'd remained in their DB scheme 
(recognising actual reinstatement into the former scheme might not be possible).
I asked Ms C to let me know whether shed wish for redress to be calculated in line 
with the guidance in FG17/9 or in line with any new rules or guidance that were 
expected to come into force in early 2023. Further, I also went on to explain that if 
this complaint wasnt settled by the time any new guidance or rules come into effect, 
Id expect L&C to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules. The updated 
rules came into effect in April 2023 so, as indicated in my provisional decision, I 
expect L&C to undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology 
now the new rules and guidance have come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for L&C to put Ms C, as far as possible, 
into the position shed now be in but for its failings. And, as I explained above, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to accept 
Ms Cs application from TPO and/or hadnt permitted the Store First investment in 
its SIPPs, the transactions wouldnt still have gone ahead and Ms C would have 
retained her monies in her DB Scheme.
L&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in 
line with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Ms Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, L&C should:
always calculate and offer Ms C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms C before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested 
prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used 
in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to 
augment her defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms C receives could be 
augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms C accepts L&Cs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms C for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be 
augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Cs end of year tax 
position.
Redress paid to Ms C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax 
purposes. So, in line with DISP App 4, L&C may make a notional deduction to cash 
lump sum payments to take account of tax that Ms C would otherwise pay on 
income from her pension. It's reasonable to assume that Ms C is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Ms C would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
3. Pay Ms C £500 for the trouble and upset shes suffered.
In addition to the financial loss that Ms C has suffered as a result of the problems with her 
pension, I think that the loss of a significant portion of her pension provisions has caused Ms 
C distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate her for this as well.
My final decision
For the reasons given, its my final decision that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld and that 
London & Colonial Services Limited must pay fair redress as set out above. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that London & Colonial Services Limited 
must pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including 
distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above. recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that London & Colonial Services Limited pay Ms C the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above. 
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms C could accept a decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance and Ms C may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman