DRN-3456735
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his accounts without any notice. 
Mr H thought he would lose the property he was due to purchase. Mr H would like an 
apology and £1,000 compensation.
What happened
Mr H had accounts with Nationwide. His wife Mrs H also had her own accounts with 
Nationwide.
Mr H was due to purchase a property jointly with his wife as an investment. Mr H was due to 
use his and Mrs Hs ISAs to buy the property. Mr H was due to transfer Mrs Hs money into 
his account to facilitate the purchase. Mrs H contacted Nationwide at the end of November 
2020 and asked for the transactions to be delayed whilst the family discussed the 
investment. 
As a result, Mr Hs accounts were blocked together with Mrs Hs accounts. 
Mr H told us his accounts were blocked over the course of three months. Mr Hs account 
was blocked from 1 December 2020 to 9 February 2021.
The property was finally purchased on 25 February 2021.
Mr H complained to Nationwide -they said they had blocked the account to comply with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They also said Mr H could not be given information 
regarding Mrs Hs accounts.
Mr H complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong when they blocked Mr Hs account. He was 
satisfied there hadnt been a delay, so he didnt think compensation was payable.
Mr H was unhappy with the view. He said it wasnt fair that Nationwide had taken so long to 
review his account. And that in his particular circumstances this wasnt a fraud situation and 
they should have taken this into account. Mr H wanted Nationwide to change its processes.
Our investigator said he understood how frustrating the situation was for Mr H, but 
Nationwide had followed its processes correctly and as a service, it wasnt our remit to ask 
Nationwide to change its processes or standards.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Nationwide were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Nationwide were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Nationwide was unfair. 
I appreciate Mr H has found the whole situation very frustrating. Mr H was trying to complete 
on a house purchase jointly with Mrs H. I am glad the house purchase completed, and he 
didnt lose the house as he had feared. I know Mr H thinks that Nationwide took too long in 
reviewing the complaint but I am satisfied there was no delay.
I know he was trying to ensure Nationwide and his wife were able to contact each other to 
resolve the blocks on her account. And I know at times he wasnt getting the information he 
needed about Nationwide contacting Mrs H. However, this case is about how Nationwide 
treated Mr H not his wife.
Mr H has said Nationwide should have treated his case differently to a fraud case because it 
was a family misunderstanding and the way they went about it was unnecessary.-But when I 
listened to a call Mr H had with Nationwide the call handler mentioned the processes are in 
place to protect all customers accounts. I agree with this and Nationwide have done what I 
would have expected, so I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr H has asked for compensation. I am sorry to disappoint him, but I wont be 
awarding him any compensation because although he has had a frustrating time, Nationwide 
havent done anything wrong when they blocked his accounts. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman