The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his credit card, despite telling him a 
replacement card had been sent. 
What happened
On 26 July 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr W to say that it intended to close his credit card account 
if he didnt use it within 60 days. HSBC identified that Mr W wasnt regularly using his credit 
card. 
On 9 October 2019 Mr W called HSBC and was incorrectly advised that a replacement card 
would be sent to him and that his credit card account would remain open. But HSBC closed 
the credit card account and no replacement was sent. 
On 29 October 2019 Mr W contacted HSBC to chase his replacement credit card and was 
told no replacement had been sent to him. Mr W complained and HSBC responded on 13 
November 2019. HSBC apologised that Mr W had been incorrectly advised that a 
replacement card would be sent to him and his credit card account would remain open. 
HSBC said Mr Ws card was closed on the same day he called and that it wouldnt reverse 
the decision. HSBC paid Mr W £50 and apologised. 
Mr W referrd his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. HSBC 
forwarded its case submission and explained it wanted to increase the offer from £50 to 
£150 to apologise for the service Mr W received. But HSBC said the decision to close the 
credit card was correct. Mr W didnt accept and responded to say the system appears to be 
set up to punish people who dont have debt. Mr W also said hes concerned that HSBC may 
close his accounts if he doesnt accept its offer. Mr W asked to appeal so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is upset. Mr W says he has various accounts with HSBC and is 
a good customer. I can appreciate that Mr W wanted to keep his credit card in reserve for 
emergencies and that he wasnt actively using it to service debt. I agree that HSBC has 
provided poor service to Mr W and that his complaint should be upheld. But, I have to be fair 
to both parties. I think there are two key issues in this case. HSBCs decision to close Mr Ws 
credit card and the information he was given on 9 October 2019. Ill deal with each in turn. 
DRN-1741285I understand why Mr W wanted to retain his credit card. But businesses dont have to 
provide services or products if they chose to withdraw them. In this case, the credit cards 
terms and conditions say HSBC can close the account by giving notice of its intention. HSBC 
said it reviewed Mr Ws credit card activity and found it wasnt being used. HSBC gave Mr W 
the required 60 days' notice of its intention to close his credit card down before it took that 
step. I appreciate my decision may seem harsh to Mr W but Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly 
and in line with the credit card terms when it took the decision to close his credit card. 
However, its clear that Mr W has received poor service. Ive listened to all the available calls 
and I agree that the 9 October 2019 conversation led to Mr W being given the wrong 
information. The advisor failed to identify Mr Ws credit card was being closed that day and 
incorrectly advise they would arrange for a new one to be sent out. I realise the dates are 
close, but Im satisfied that was a genuine mistake by the advisor Mr W spoke with. I 
wouldnt expect either party to be bound by a genuine error. And, as Ive said above, Im 
satisfied HSBC could take the decision to close Mr Ws account. 
As a result of the wrong information being provided, Mr W called back on 29 October 2019 to 
chase his replacement card. During the call he was passed to various departments, none of 
which were able to help. Its clear how frustrating the situation was, especially as Mr Ws 
credit card account had already been closed. 
Overall, I dont agree that the decision to close the credit card was unfair or wrong. But I do 
agree that the service provided to Mr W was poor and that he was given wrong information. 
Ive considered the impact of HSBCs errors on Mr W. HSBC has already paid Mr W£50 and 
offered a further £100. I think a total payment of £150 fairly reflects the impact of HSBCs 
errors on Mr W. So Im not going to tell it to increase its offer. 
I understand Mr W is concerned that if he doesnt accept HSBCs offer it could lead to further 
action being taken. Id like to assure Mr W that businesses have to provide a legitimate 
reason for ending a banking relationship as well as a sufficient notice period. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that HSBC will treat Mr W differently on the basis he has made a 
complaint. 
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay a total of £150 (less any compensation already 
paid) to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay a total of £150 to Mr W for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman