DRN-2547860
The complaint
Mr A says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) applied an erroneous 
and unreasonable calculation of cost values to shares in his Stocks and Shares Individual 
Savings Account (ISA), which caused confusion in his trading/investment decisions and led 
to a financial loss. HL disputes the complaint.
What happened
Mr As allegation is focused on a holding of Glencore plc (Glencore) stock within his ISA 
between July 2019 and February 2020 (the holding period). After his initial stock purchase 
he traded further in the shares and reached a total of 37,106 shares in the holding. He says 
he was misled by the calculation (and output) of costs on HLs platform to believe his holding 
was in a profitable position when he decided to liquidate it  and that this influenced him to 
liquidate it (on 5 February 2020). Instead, and after liquidating it, he says he learnt that he 
had made a loss from the holding.
Account activity evidence from HL shows the following key transactions:
On 24 July 2019 Mr A bought 17,248 Glencore shares at 277.51 per share and at the 
total cost of £47,878.22.
On 5 February 2020 he bought 20,151 Glencore shares at 233.185 per share and at 
the total cost of £46,999.06; he then sold the same number of shares on the same 
date at 234.127 per share and received total proceeds of £47,168.98.
Subsequently on 5 February 2020 he bought 19,858 Glencore shares at 236.626 per 
share and at the total cost of £46,999.14. This purchase plus the initial July 2019 
purchase of 17,248 shares  and discounting the 20,151 shares he bought and sold 
in between  brought his holding to a total of 37,106 shares.
Subsequently on 5 February 2020 he sold all 37,106 shares at 238.129 per share 
and received total proceeds of £88,350.20.
Mr A says the platform showed him the holding had a gain of around £350 before it was 
liquidated, yet after liquidation he realised a loss of around £6,500 from it. He also refers to 
evidence from the platform of changing total costs for the holding despite his purchase costs 
being fixed.
HLs position is as follows:
It is unable to determine how or where Mr A viewed a gain of around £350 in the 
holding given that the total average cost for the holding prior to liquidation was 
£88,496 and the value of the holding displayed at the time was £88,360.
His total purchase cost  on all the Glencore shares he bought during the holding 
period  and the total proceeds he received from all the Glencore shares he sold 
during the same period differs by (minus) £6,370.11, so the loss he realised is 
accurate. 
The way costs and average costs were calculated and displayed on the platform was 
always made clear to Mr A on his online platform account page and within the 
periodical Investment Reports he always received after his account was opened in 
May 2017. The relevant method features only purchases in a stock  not sales; it 
continues, on a cumulative basis, to calculate the average cost per share in the 
context of the total of all shares purchased in the stock and the total purchase costs, 
without discounting shares that have been sold; and then, at any given time, the 
average total cost is calculated by applying the last calculated average cost per 
share to the total number of shares existing at the time.
Information about the calculation  on the online platform account and in the 
Investment Reports  also included notice that it was HLs way of calculating costs 
and that it should not be relied upon for Capital Gains Tax (CGT) purposes or for 
making investment decisions.
Mr A could not have been misled about the real total purchase costs for the holding 
given that he had accurate contract notes for all his purchases, and they provided 
purchase cost information that he could have used to determine the position of the 
holding when he decided to liquidate it.
The matter was considered by one of our investigators who broadly agreed with HLs 
position and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. In addition to agreeing with 
the points made by HL, he noted that HLs method for calculating and presenting costs does 
not appear to have been contrary to regulations and that the live platform (share price) 
information upon which he placed his sale order(s) for the shares would have made their 
value clear. Mr A disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I should 
also say that I consider the facts and evidence to be in favour of HLs position and that the 
key points it has made (as summarised above) are valid.
The source of Mr As misunderstanding is not clear, but I do not consider that he should 
have misunderstood how the total cost and/or the average total cost and/or the average 
purchase cost per share of his Glencore shares were calculated. I accept that HLs method 
is not what he might have assumed as the method for calculating these costs, but evidence 
shows that he did not have to make assumptions because reasonably clear information was 
given to him  on the platform and in the investment reports  about the method.
In a nutshell, HLs method meant trading (buying and selling) within a holding and after the 
initial purchase in the holding was only partially reflected. Only the buying element in such 
trading was reflected. Partial share sales from the holding, and their revenues, were not. The 
result was that the total purchase cost was based on the cost(s) of all purchases in a holding 
in isolation, the average total purchase cost was based on the same isolated approach and 
the same approach applied to the average purchase cost per share. 
On balance, I do not consider that this method had a misleading effect on Mr A. It produced 
a unique way of viewing acquisition costs in a holding  especially the way in which the total 
cost of an existing and particular total number of shares could be based on an average cost 
per share that has been calculated on a different total number of shares (that is, the total 
prior to the last partial sale). I can understand and accept that Mr A might not have liked 
such a method. I also accept that the method did not produce realistic or practical 
information about the costs of an existing holding after trading activity within it. In order to 
produce such realistic information all purchases and sales would need to be reflected. 
Nevertheless, I do not consider that it misled Mr A because it was never presented as realistic or practical information about costs. The notices made this clear and made equally 
clear that it should not be relied upon for CGT purposes or for making investment decisions. 
Instead, HL ensured  as it was obliged to  that contract notes were wholly accurate in 
terms of any purchases or sales of shares. They were readily available to Mr A and ought 
reasonably to have informed him about the cost position of his holding throughout the 
holding period and on 5 February 2020 when he decided to liquidate it. 
With such information to hand  as it ought to have been  and, as the investigator noted, 
with live information about the value of the shares on 5 February, I too cannot understand 
how Mr A could have been misled to expect the gain he has referred to. The contract notes, 
which appear to have been four in total and so were not too extensive for him to consider, 
would have told him his total cost in the holding after discounting the shares he bought and 
sold on this date; then the live valuation information would have told him the holdings 
potential sale revenue; the difference would have informed him about the holdings gain or 
loss position (in his case, a loss position); and then he would have been in the position to 
make an informed decision on whether (or not) to liquidate the holding. There is no 
misguidance in this context.
I can understand that Mr A could, and appears to, have chosen to take the relatively more 
convenient approach of relying on the cost values displayed on the platform. However, I do 
not accept that it was or would have been reasonable for him to do so, given the warning (on 
the platform) that those values should not be relied upon for making investment decisions. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman