DRN-3908286
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
Mr H is represented in his complaint by his daughter and our service has been advised that 
the car was for Mr Hs grandson (his daughters son). However, for ease, in this decision I 
will refer to any submissions made by Mr Hs daughter as if they had been made by Mr H 
himself.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H entered into an agreement with MotoNovo for a used car (supplied by a 
dealership that I will call P) that was approximately five years old and had travelled 
approximately 24,000 miles. The cost of the car was £11,000 and the total price payable for 
it (including purchased extras) was £12,221. The car passed an MOT test in February 2022 
at its first presentation with five advisories noted.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H undertook to pay a 
deposit of £3,155.00 followed by 47 monthly payments of £229.45 and one further and final 
monthly payment of £230.45 making a total repayable of £14,169.60 at an APR of 9.9%.
P says that in May 2022 it supplied and fitted a new tyre valve, reset the tyre pressure 
monitoring system light and repaired three of the alloy wheels.
In August 2022 Mr H contacted P to say the car had broken down. The car was collected by 
P where an inspection identified a new gearbox was required.
In September 2022 Mr H contacted MotoNovo to say that he was unhappy with the car he 
had been sold and was looking to reject it. Amongst other things Mr H said:
water coolant lid was jammed
car was dirty
wires were hanging down under the front passenger side glovebox
front passenger seat was stained
rear seats were dirty
front two tyres werent holding the required air pressure
three alloy wheels were scraped
the parcel shelf wasnt the correct one for the car
the exhaust on the car was different to the one shown in the advert
the advert showed the car with mud flaps, but it was sold without
a tyre blew out whilst his grandson was driving
the gearbox had gone
In September 2022 P advised MotoNovo that it was prepared to supply and fit mud flaps to 
the car if it had been sold without them.
In October 2022 MotoNovo issued Mr H with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL MotoNovo said:
according to P the tyre pressure issue had been rectified
according to P the car was sold with the advertised exhaust system
P was prepared to replace the parcel shelf if the car had been sold with an incorrect 
one
an independent inspection of the car, by a company that I will call S, concluded that 
there was a fault with the gearbox, but this fault would have unlikely been present, or 
developing, at the point of sale
And because of the above MotoNovo said it wasnt prepared to accept rejection of the car 
from Mr H.
In November 2022 Mr H advised our service that P was looking to charge him, going 
forward, £25 a day for storing his car and was seeking from him the sum of £104.40 for a 
free health check.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said all the issues for which the original supplying 
dealership or MotoNovo could reasonably be held responsible for had been rectified or 
would be rectified (at no cost to Mr H) and the issue with the gearbox didnt make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was sold.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary he said:
the car was sold with an odometer reading of 24,440, not 23,850 as advertised
the tyre pressure issue wasnt repaired successfully
the parcel shelf had been replaced
he had been invoiced £104.40 for a free health check
he disagreed, for a number of reasons, with S inspection report
The investigator considered Mr Hs response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H said he would like the opportunity to get an inspection report undertaken on the car, but 
he doesnt appear to have done so. Now I appreciate the reasons why Mr H would like to do 
this but in my view he has had sufficient time to do so, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to delay the issue of this decision any longer.The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
In this case its not in dispute that the cars gearbox has failed, and that it failed within six 
months of Mr H purchasing the car. And in cases such as this we think its good practice for 
the finance company  in this case MotoNovo  to get an independent inspection undertaken 
to establish whether the fault with the car was present or developing at the point of sale, 
which it did. Unfortunately for Mr H, MotoNovos interpretation of this report is that it isnt 
liable to him for the diagnosed fault.
Now I know Mr H disagrees with S report. But Im satisfied that MotoNovos interpretation of 
that report was reasonable. In other words, Im satisfied that Mr Hs car wasnt faulty, or 
developing a fault, when sold. 
Contrary to what Mr H has submitted Im satisfied that S report can be relied on, that its 
independent and there is nothing untoward about when S was appointed to undertake its 
inspection. And in respect of S independence I would draw Mr Hs specific attention to the 
statement of truth on page 5.
I will now turn to what the inspection found.
I appreciate that the report states that The gear box will need to be removed and stripped to 
find out the exact fault and issues. But this statement doesnt mean the rest of the report 
cant be relied on. And I note that the report also states:
The symptom with the transmission has all the characteristics of a worn out clutch
The vehicle appears to have covered some 6,000 miles since the date of sale, this confirms 
to us that the vehicle was fit for purpose and road legal the point of sale the vehicle couldnt 
have driven 6000 miles with a faulty transmission/clutch without the symptoms becoming 
noticeable to the driver.
It should be carefully noted that the life expectancy of clutches is uncertain and difficult to 
predict, being dependent on driving style, vehicle usage and operating environment. 
Because the clutch has not been identified as faulty/slipping/juddering/noisy at the point of 
purchase would lead us to conclusion that the symptoms have been induced by general 
wear and tear rather than a manufacturing defect.
In conclusion there is nothing at the time of inspection to suggest that the they had an 
underlying condition at point of purchase, replacing the clutch on the vehicle be classed as 
routine maintenance on all the transmission has not been removed for detailed examination 
of the clutch, as the vehicle has covered some 6000 miles since the date of sale are 
confident that the symptoms were not underlying developing at the point of sale therefore the 
sales agent has no responsibility in rectification. [sic]Given what S report states, the car had passed an MOT test in February 2022 at its first 
presentation, the miles travelled in the car between April and August 2022 and the lack of 
any persuasive evidence from Mr H contradicting what S found, I can confirm that on the 
balance of probabilities Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory when sold to Mr H.
For the sake of completeness, I would make the following comments and observations:
I accept that S report records, on page one, a VIN that matches that recorded on the 
agreement but the photograph of the VIN on page 3 of S report differs. But in my view the 
difference in the VINs are very minor and on balance they have simply been recorded on 
page one of S report and the agreement incorrectly. In other words, Im not persuaded there 
is anything untoward in respect of the two recorded VINs.
I cant see that Mr H has supplied any evidence in support of his submission that the car was 
sold to him with more miles on the odometer than advertised. But in any event its not 
unusual for a car to be sold with a higher mileage than advertised due to it being taken, 
amongst other things, on test drives between the advert being produced and the car being 
sold. Furthermore, I might have expected Mr H to have queried this at the time of sale and I 
cant see that Mr H has supplied any evidence that he did. Finally on this point I would add 
that Im not persuaded that a difference of 690 miles has any bearing, in itself, on the 
conclusion reached by the investigator and I that the car was of satisfactory quality when 
sold to Mr H.
I cant see that Mr H has been charged £104.40 for a free health check. Based on what has 
been provided by MotoNovo Im satisfied that this charge relates to the diagnosis work 
undertaken on the car by P in August 2022 to establish that the gearbox had indeed failed.
It's not clear what P charged Mr H, if anything, for the storage of his car. But Im not 
persuaded that this is a charge, if levied by P, is one I can reasonably hold MotoNovo 
responsible for. I would also add that its my understanding that P only looked to charge 
Mr H for storage after MotoNovo had concluded that it (and therefore P) wasnt responsible 
for the gearbox failure and after P had given Mr H sufficient time to collect the car.
Ive seen insufficient evidence that persuades me the tyre pressure issue wasnt repaired 
successfully. But even if it hadnt been Im not persuaded that this issue made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality when sold, it was a repair that P was required to undertake, or that its 
a repair that MotoNovo should now have to undertake.
Ive seen insufficient evidence that persuades me that the car was sold with anything other 
than the exhaust it was advertised as coming with.
Im satisfied that Mr H should be provided with the mudflaps that the car was advertised as 
coming with. But as P has agreed to do this I see no grounds to direct MotoNovo to do so.
Im satisfied that none of the other issues Mr H says he experienced with the car, whether 
rectified by P or not, made it of unsatisfactory quality when sold. And furthermore, I see no 
good reason to direct MotoNovo to undertake any rectification works in respect of these 
other issues, or to financially compensate Mr H in lieu of such rectification work.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman