DRN-2804990
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) recorded a
default on his credit file.  
What happened
In February 2019, Mr G began to fall behind with payments on his Amex credit card. In May
2019, Amex passed Mr Gs account to a debt collection agency, with whom Mr G agreed a
repayment plan.
Mr G didnt make the payments that he originally agreed with the debt collection agency, but
he did make payments toward the balance and cleared the outstanding amount in October
2019. However, shortly before clearing the balance, Mr G discovered that Amex had
recorded a default on his credit file.
Mr G wasnt happy that a default had been recorded, especially as his conversations with
the debt collection agency had led him to believe that this wouldnt be the case. So, he
raised a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Gs complaint, but they noted that Mr G hadnt kept to the schedule of the
payment plan that hed agreed with the debt collection agency, and they felt the default was
justified for this reason. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the default hadnt been
applied unfairly, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 April 2021, in which I stated as follows:
Amex referred the complaint to the debt collection agency in May 2019. Its important 
to note that this was not a sale of debt, but rather that Amex engaged the debt 
collection agency to attempt to recover the outstanding balance on Amexs behalf.
Amex recorded the default against Mr Gs credit file in September 2019, and Amex 
have confirmed that this was because Mr G didnt adhere to the terms of the payment 
plan that hed agreed with the debt collection agency.
However, in late August 2019, shortly before the default was applied, the debt 
collection agency sent Mr G an email containing the following message:
The last payment on your American Express account was on 19th July. If no 
further payment is made within 45 days of that the account may be recalled 
and a possible default registered on your credit file. Would it be possible to 
make an affordable payment of at least £866? This will retain the account.
This was an important message. But I dont feel that it was a sufficiently clear one. 
For instance, I can easily understand how this message could be misread as 
meaning that Mr G had 45 days from the date of the message to make a payment 
toward the account to avoid the possibility of a default being applied to the account.
It also must be noted that Mr Gs own communication to the debt collection agency, 
which prompted the above message, explained that the was in the middle of an 
intensive work schedule in the US and would return home and make a payment 
within the next two weeks. And Mr G did make a payment on 9 September 2019 and 
cleared the balance in full by 29 October 2019.
I understand that when read correctly the message explains that if a payment isnt 
received within 45 days of the last payment made by Mr G on 19 July 2019 then the 
account might be defaulted  which gave Mr G until 2 September 2019. But as 
mentioned, I dont feel that this is sufficiently clear. And clarity of communication is 
what this service would expect here.
It isnt the fault of Amex that the communication issued by the debt collection agency 
was unclear in this instance. But the debt collection agency was acting on Amexs 
behalf, and the end result here  that Mr Gs account was defaulted  doesnt feel fair 
in this instance, given what I have explained above.
This means that I will be provisionally instructing Amex to remove the default from Mr 
Gs credit file and instead to amend their report to the credit reference agencies to 
show that Mr Gs account remained in arrears until the balance was cleared by Mr G 
on 29 October  also taking into account the partial payments that Mr G made 
leading up to his clearing the remaining balance. And I feel that this represents a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Mr G and Amex until 7 May 2021 to provide any 
comments of further information that they wished me to consider, before I moved to issue a 
final decision.
Mr G confirmed that he had no further comments to add, while Amex did not respond. As 
such, I see no reason to not uphold this complaint on the basis explained in my provisional 
decision, and so I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
 
Putting things right
Amex must remove the default from Mr Gs credit file and instead amend their report to the 
credit reference agencies to show that Mr Gs account remained in arrears until the balance 
was cleared by Mr G on 29 October 2019  reporting the amount of arrears accurately and 
taking into account the partial payments made by Mr G leading up to his clearing the 
outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited on the basis explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman