DRN-3080808
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains about how Metro Bank PLC handled its 
Bounce Back Loan application.
 
Js director, Mr K, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2020, J wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Throughout the process it 
encountered several issues; technical difficulties with Metro Banks online system delayed 
the application for some time and  once the application had been approved  similar 
problems prevented J from accepting the loan agreement quickly. J eventually received its 
Bounce Back Loan in late October.
 
Mr K raised a complaint about how Metro Bank had handled Js application. Metro Bank 
apologised for the inconvenience, and it said the issues had been caused be a system error. 
The bank said the length of time taken to resolve the issue was longer than it would have 
hoped, and so it upheld Js complaint. Metro Bank offered J compensation of £100.  
Mr K rejected Metro Banks offer, and he brought Js complaint to our service instead. An 
investigator here reviewed the complaint, and he didnt think Metro Bank had done enough 
to put things right. He said the delays J had experienced were unreasonable, and 
Metro Bank hadnt kept Mr K up to date with its progress  despite him putting in significant 
effort to communicate with the bank.
 
The investigator noted that Metro Bank had acknowledged the poor service it had provided, 
but he felt the amount of compensation should be increased to £300  which he thought 
better reflected the inconvenience caused to J.
 
J accepted the investigators findings, but Metro Bank disagreed. So, as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that something went wrong. Metro Bank has acknowledged that it caused 
delays to Js application, and its also agreed that it couldve maintained better 
correspondence with J throughout the process. So, Ive gone on to consider what I think the 
bank should do to put things right.
 
While Js complaint has been with this service, Metro Bank increased its offer of 
compensation to £200. But I still dont think that fairly reflects the inconvenience J 
experienced through the persistent issues and delays to its Bounce Back Loan application.
To explain; I appreciate that Metro Bank was dealing with an unprecedented level of demand 
for borrowing under the government-backed loan schemes at the time. Nonetheless, J was 
entitled to expect its application to be assessed within a matter of days  as envisaged under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Thats not what happened. Instead, J encountered extensive problems with 
Metro Banks online system when it initially applied  meaning Mr K had to call and email the 
bank on a number of occasions, over a period of several weeks, to chase things up.  Even 
when these issues were fixed, J then faced further delays when more problems with 
Metro Banks system prevented it from accepting the loan agreement. So, I think J was put 
to some considerable inconvenience. And taking all of this into account, I dont think the 
existing offer is enough to compensate J for Metro Banks errors. 
Instead, I think it would be fair for Metro Bank to increase the compensation amount and pay 
£300 to J in recognition of the inconvenience and delays it caused when handling of Js 
Bounce Back Loan application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Metro Bank PLC to pay J 
compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman