DRN-3878794
The complaint
Mr L and Miss W complain that West Bay Insurance Plc hasnt repaired their car following a 
claim on their motor insurance policy. They want the repairs completed and £500 
compensation. Miss W is a named driver on Mr Ls policy and represents him in this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an incident and their car was damaged. Mr L made a claim to West 
Bay, but unfortunately it was unable to locate an approved repairer in its networks that could 
undertake the repairs in a timely manner. West Bay arranged for glass to be repaired so the 
car could pass its MOT. And the car was still roadworthy, so Mr L and Miss W were kept 
mobile. 
West Bay paid them a total of £100 compensation for the delays in the claim and for their 
disappointment when planned repairs couldnt be done. But they wanted their car repaired. 
So West Bay said they could either wait for an approved repairer or use their own repairer 
and it would waive the usual additional policy excess for this. Mr L and Miss W were 
unhappy with this and returned the £100. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought West 
Bays compensation offer was in keeping with our published guidance for the trouble and 
upset the delays had caused. And she thought its offer to use a non-approved repairer 
without paying an additional excess was what we would expect.
Miss W replied that she remained unhappy that the car hadnt been repaired and said that 
the damage to the tailgate had caused her belongings to fall out. She was also unhappy that 
she was asked to send in photos of the car with their garages repairs estimate as shed 
already provided these at the start of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss W and Mr L feel frustrated with the delays in getting their car 
repaired, I can also see that they were put to the trouble of taking the car to a garage when it 
had no capacity to accommodate the repairs. 
I think its clear that there were delays and poor service in the claim. When a business 
makes mistakes, as West Bay accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the errors 
had on the consumer. 
To restore Mr Ls position, West Bay ensured that the glass was repaired as the cars MOT 
was due. So Mr L and Miss W were kept mobile, though the car was still damaged. And I 
can see that West Bay tried various repairer networks to look for availability, but without 
success. And then it made the offer of using a non-approved repairer. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. In Section 2 of the policy 
booklet under Damage to the car, West Bay states:
This section provides you with cover for loss or damage to the car and its accessories 
caused by accidental or malicious damage, or vandalism.
We will decide either to;
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it; or
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage.
I dont think this is an unusual policy term and condition. And I think it is in keeping with 
standard industry practice. So theres no obligation in the policy for West Bay to use its 
approved repairer, just to pay for repairs. I can understand that arranging their own repairer 
to provide an estimate and then submitting this to West Bays engineers for approval is an 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied that it was a reasonable option in the circumstances. And 
from what I can see, Miss W and Mr L have taken this up to get their car repaired. So I think 
West Bay has reasonably restored Mr Ls position, in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Looking at the impact on Mr L, he would normally have to pay an additional policy excess of 
£200 for using a non-approved repairer. And I think it was reasonable for West Bay to waive 
this as Mr L wasnt responsible for its delays in providing an approved repairer. And West 
Bay offered Mr L £100 compensation in total for the trouble and upset caused by its delays. I 
think thats in keeping with our published guidance and so I dont require West Bay to 
increase this.
Miss W has raised concerns about having to re-submit photographs of her car. But, as our 
Investigator has explained, she would need to raise this first with West Bay to give it a 
chance to respond. So I cant consider this concern here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman