DRN-3112160
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her when she was not able to afford the 
loans. 
Mrs B is not content about the entry on her Morses account notes for January 2020.
What happened
 Using information Morses has provided for us, here is a table of five loans approved for
Mrs B over the years.
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments 
in weeksAmount Highest Combined Weekly 
Repayment
1 04/09/2015 Scheduled to 
be repaid July 
2016 
Sold34 £200.00 £10.00
Break in lending
2 03/09/2019 04/02/2020 33 £300.00 £15.00
3 29/11/2019 28/02/2020 34 £150.00 £22.50
4 04/02/2020 28/02/2020 34 £300.00 £22.50
5 01/05/2020 19/12/2020 34 £250.00 £12.50
Mrs B complained to Morses and received its final response letter (FRL) dated October 2020 
in November 2020. Its unclear why there was a delay. At this stage it had not discovered 
Mrs Bs 2015 loan and details of this were sent to this Service later. Morses agreed that it be 
included in the complaint investigation, but it had limited information about it.
In its FRL Morses explained that for the 2019 and 2020 loans it used an electronic method to 
capture Mrs Bs income and expenditure and copies of those four sets of details have been 
sent to us. Morses summarised the situation that Mrs B had an income surplus range of
between £59 and £98 a week.
Morses further explained:
For loans issued after 20th June 2019 we used figures provided from the Office of 
National Statics [sic] (ONS) and pre-populated minimum figures for expenditure 
which included rent, council tax, utilities, insurance, transport, groceries, media and 
childcare. We also pre-populated the payments you make towards other creditors by 
using information provided from [credit reference agency name here].
The Agent would then review these figures with you and increase or decrease the 
values as appropriate. If a value is decreased, the Agent records the reason why and 
updates the income and expenditure accordingly.
Ill come back to these points later in this decision. 
Morses other points made in its FRL were that:
it had no notes about Mrs B being in a debt management plan (DMP)
it had no indication Mrs B was in financial difficulties
the Agent for Morses had noted that in January 2020 Mrs B was in Mexico and 
Morses took from that information Mrs B was not experiencing any financial 
difficulty.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint, including the 2015 loan information and 
thought that Morses had done nothing wrong and he did not think Morses needed to do 
anything to put things right for Mrs B. He did establish that the agent had got it wrong about 
the Mexico trip and Morses accepted that. So, he did think that a written apology and an 
amendment of its records was appropriate about that entry.
Mrs B disagreed about the irresponsible lending part of the complaint and it was passed to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021 giving both parties time to 
review it and come back to me with anything further they wished me to look at. Both parties 
have answered and have nothing further to add. 
So, as we have heard from both parties it seems appropriate to issue this final 
determination. I include in the next pages my provisional findings which become part of this 
decision. Those provisional findings are in smaller type-size to differentiate them from my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
My provisional decision findings from 4 November 2021
Loan 1
The current situation with Loan 1 is that it is closed and with an external debt collector. Morses has 
been able to send to us the original application form dated September 2015. From the sections 
completed by the agent it looks as though identification was obtained from Mrs B as she was a new 
customer. So, I am satisfied on the evidence I have that this was the first loan Mrs B took with 
Morses.
The application form shows Mrs B had told Morses she received £161 a week in wages and £415 a 
week from a pension and the agent had ticked a box to indicate evidence of these payments had 
been seen. That gave a total income of £576 a week. Mrs Bs total weekly expenditure for 
rent/mortgage, other loans, bills, living costs and other outgoings was £233. So, the £200 loan at £10 
a week looked to have been affordable.
On the information I have it seems that Morses carried out proportionate checks for Mrs B as a new 
customer applying for a relatively modest loan of £200 over 33 weeks. The £10 a week repayment 
schedule looked affordable. I do not plan to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about this loan.
After loan 1
I have been sent the statement of account for loan 1 and from it I can see that Mrs B appeared to pay 
the £10 a week regularly until end of November 2015 after which there was a gap until January 2016, 
one more payment of £40 and then no more payments. The outstanding balance on the loan of £180, 
was likely passed to an external debt collector on 8 July 2016. 
Mrs B has told us about her DMP. Mrs B has provided a copy email from the charitable body which 
gives free advice to consumers about debt management. That email was addressed to her and her 
partner and suggests it was a joint debt management plan which commenced July 2016. Mrs B has 
highlighted an entry on a long list of debts which she says is the Morses loan 1 in the DMP.The document giving us the list of debts in the DMP is dated 2021. I think that the DMP list we have 
related to the joint debts for Mrs B and her partner and are not solely hers. And as dates and details 
are missed off the photograph we have then I cannot see the chronology or the amounts.
Break in lending
The gap in the lending after loan 1 was significant and I do think that when Mrs B approached Morses 
again several years after loan 1 was sold on, it was reasonable of it to treat Mrs B as if she were a 
new customer. That would mean that it was entitled to rely on the financial information she gave to it 
for loan 2. And that seems to be what happened.
Information from Mrs Bs credit file
I have used Mrs Bs credit file record to see if she was in a DMP at the time she applied to Morses for 
the 2019 and 2020 loans. I can see that the Morses Loan 1 was passed to a debt management 
company and the note on that credit file entry says that the DMP for this loan commenced in 
September 2018. It looks like Loan 1 was paid off around the beginning of 2021.
Mrs Bs credit file also shows me that she had three other loans with another Home Credit Provider, 
two of which were included in her DMP from February 2019 and the third was in default from 
May 2017. So, I am satisfied from this entry and other details from Mrs Bs credit file that she had 
more than one debt in a DMP at the time she came back to Morses for the loans in 2019 and 2020.
Mrs B had taken a guarantor loan in October 2018  the fourth in a series of loans with the same 
company which were all refinanced into the next  which was settled in June 2020. Mrs B had a 
mortgage account  likely joint with her partner  and the balance on it has reduced by about £800 
over the six years of credit reporting showing on her credit file. The original payment terms were £323 
over 276 months (23 years) from June 2006. 
Morses credit file search results
After loan 2, I can see that Morses carried out credit searches with a credit reference agency (CRA) 
and it has explained that it used these when assessing applications.
Mrs B says she did not tell Morses about the DMP when she applied in 2019. I have looked at the 
credit file search results I have from Morses to see if there was anything in those results which may 
have alerted it to Mrs Bs DMP. And I think that there was.
The first credit search was dated 1 November 2019 and was after loan 2 had been approved so it 
does not look like it carried out any credit search before approving loan 2 which would have been the 
first loan in that new lending chain. Thats not unusual and the regulations did not stipulate that it had 
to do that.
Morses appears to have carried out searches for many months and the one that pre-dates loan 3 
(November 2019) likely was used for that loan 3 approval. This November 2019 set of results has a 
lot of information about Mrs B and the following are some of the entries:
Total value of accounts in code DM in last 12 months £1,093
Total current balance on active accounts opened more than 12 months ago (excluding 
mortgage) £6,926
Total monthly payments on all accounts (excluding mortgage) currently active £564 which is 
around £130 a week on my calculations.
Total value of all current defaults £1,575 (delinquent accounts £2,443) 
The reference to DM for this CRA does appear to mean a DMP.
These details dovetail with Mrs Bs own credit file and I think that Morses was on notice that Mrs B 
had problems dealing with her existing loans and it knew she was in a DMP and had at least £130 a 
week to repay in loans.And the credit history, whether using its own searches or Mrs Bs credit file, indicated that she was 
often unable to repay loans and found herself in arrears.
It looks like Morses may not have known of these issues for loan 2, and loan 3 was for £150 only 
which is a relatively modest amount. But, I think that by the time Mrs B applied for loan 4 in 
February 2020, when Morses had done another credit search in January 2020, then I do think it knew 
enough to realise that its unlikely she was able to properly manage her money and not likely able to 
afford loan 4 when she still had loan 3 to repay. And it looks as though Mrs B used the principal sums 
from Loan 4 to repay loan 2.
The Morses credit search done in January 2020 for the entry  Total monthly payments on all 
accounts (excluding mortgage) currently active  had increased from £564 to £794 which I calculate 
to have been around £183 a week. Mrs Bs weekly income declared to Morses in February 2020 was 
around £279. These repayments plus the ordinary weekly expenditure she had declared to Morses, 
plus the payments for the outstanding Morses loan plus the loan she was applying for, all would have 
added up to being unaffordable.
Morses agents account note
It was during loans 2 and 3 that an entry was added by Morses agent to the account notes for Mrs B 
on 23 January 2020. That entry, a copy of which I have seen, said customer in Mexico will catch up 
on return
At first, Morses explained to us that it had no reason to doubt the accuracy of that information and told 
us that it would have used that account note as part of the financial information about Mrs B. And it 
took this to mean that Mrs B was not experiencing any financial difficulty.
Mrs B was able to send to us photographs of people on holiday in Mexico and when these were sent 
to Morses it wrote to us to say:
I can see the note the Agent left was misleading, and we apologise to [Mrs B] for the 
misunderstanding. We will get the note removed from [Mrs Bs] account on our system.
As Morses has accepted that its agent was wrong to have done this then I make no finding on it as 
I dont need to. But, I have thought carefully about the significance of it and what it means for Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
The apology offered to Mrs B may have been  sent to Mrs B, and if it has not then it ought to be.
But the relevance here is that it appears to have influenced Morses when deciding on Mrs Bs 
financial circumstances when she applied to it for loans. As this note was about a week before she 
was approved for loan 4, then I think that its another example where Morses got it wrong.
Its accepted that its agent entered wholly incorrect information onto its account notes, and that this 
information would have been used to indicate that Mrs B was not having problems with her finances 
because she could afford to go to Mexico. Ive noted Mrs Bs overall financial situation and its an 
unlikely idea that someone in Mrs Bs position, could be viewed as a person able to afford a holiday to 
Mexico. So, I think that this incorrect entry may well have influenced the loan assessment for loan 4 
and loans applied for afterwards.
Overall, I am satisfied that Morses ought not to have lent loans 4 and 5 to Mrs B and I plan to uphold 
her complaint for loans 4 and 5.Distress and inconvenience
Mrs B learnt about the account note by the agent saying Mrs B had been on holiday abroad when she 
received Morses FRL. So, in defending her complaint Morses responded by saying that she could 
afford an expensive holiday and so, by implication, her complaint about unaffordability was 
unfounded. Mrs B has explained that she felt shed suffered an accusation.
Having seen that Morses has accepted that its agent added misleading information to Mrs Bs 
account notes and having considered the impact that Mrs B has told us it had on her then I do not 
think that a written apology is enough.
I think that some compensation is warranted for the distress and inconvenience and I plan to award 
£200.
My decision 
As I outlined in the what happened part of this decision, both parties have responded and 
neither party has sent me anything else to consider. So, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. They are repeated here and for the same reasoning outlined above then 
I uphold Mrs Bs irresponsible lending complaint about loans 4 and 5 and I make a money 
award of £200 for distress and inconvenience about the notes attached to her account which 
were misleading. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs B from loan 4 (approved February 2020), as 
Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, 
answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs B in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.Morses needs to put things right by doing as follows:
refund all interest and charges to Mrs B on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 and 5 from Mrs Bs credit file;
pay to Mrs B a compensation money award of £200.
amend Mrs Bs Morses account notes to remove the inaccurate information.
send to Mrs B a written apology about that account note issue.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and make a money award to her. 
And I direct that Morses Club PLC does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman