DRN-3495222
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) is about the link between the
selected retirement age (SRA) for his pension plan and the term of his mortgage.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2022. Ive 
recapped here what I said about what had happened and my provisional findings.
Mr B (with his wife) has a main mortgage with Barclays and a further advance  an Open
Reserve Plan (OP2). Both loans are interest only. Mr Bs pension was the intended
repayment vehicle. Mr B is unhappy with the link between the term of his mortgage and the
latest date hes likely to retire. Mr B says he may work until hes 70 but his pension plans
have a SRA of 65.
The mortgage was taken out in 1998. It was due to be repaid in June 2018. Mr B would then
be 62. Mr B had an existing group personal pension (GPP) with Scottish Widows into which
his employer was contributing £312.50. Contributions were invested in the with profits fund.
Mr Bs SRA was his 65th birthday in October 2020. Barclays advised Mr B to set up a
second plan so he could top up the pension contributions to the maximum allowed on which
hed get tax relief. That was £7,000 pa so hed pay a further £270.83 gross pm into a new
pension plan with a different provider  Royal Sun Alliance (RSA). Mr Bs contributions were
to be invested in the Managed Growth Fund. His SRA was again his 65th birthday. Hed
indicated he wanted to retire sometime between 55 and 58 but hed possibly work until age
65 to maximise his pension.
The OP2 was taken out in 2000. That was also on an interest only basis. It seems there was
some confusion about when it was to be redeemed. Mr B understood it was to be repaid in
2019. And that the term of his main mortgage had been extended by a year to match that.
But it appears that the OP2 was to be repaid at the same time as the main account and both
loans were due to be repaid in June 2018. I think Barclays agreed that repayment of the
main mortgage would be postponed until 2019. The mortgage and the OP2 werent
redeemed then. Mr B and his wife wanted the terms of the loans to be extended but Barclays
didnt agree. As Ive mentioned below, Mr B and his wife have a separate complaint about
the mortgage.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint about Mr Bs pension. It said Mr B had been correctly
advised to set up his RSA plan with a SRA of 65. At the time of the advice that was the latest
age at which Mr B considered hed retire. And his existing GPP had been set to that age too.
But, in any event, the benefits from the RSA plan dont have to be taken at age 65. Theres a
penalty free early retirement option. And Mr B couldve continued making payments beyond
age 65 and deferred taking benefits until any time up to age 75. But Barclays did say that it
had taken too long to respond to Mr Bs concerns and paid him £150 for that.
The investigator issued his view on 3 September 2021. He didnt think the complaint should
be upheld. He explained that the complaint about the mortgage was being looked at
separately and so he was only considering the complaint about when Mr B could take his
pension benefits. The investigator didnt think Barclays had been wrong to record Mr Bs
SRA as 65. And Mr B wasnt restricted by that  he could take his pension benefits earlier or
later.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. We told Mr B and Barclays that an ombudsman
would review the complaint.
Since then Ive seen that Barclays sent two letters on 10 November 2021 to Mr B and his
wife. Mr B didnt receive them until 16 November 2021. One letter was formal notice of
referral to solicitors to start repossession proceedings. Mr B said the other letter  asking
him to contact Barclays within 14 days to prevent legal proceedings - suggested hed done
nothing to try to resolve the issue about repayment of the mortgage and didnt refer to any
complaint having been made to Barclays and this service.
The letter also said that Barclays had attempted to contact him on all available telephone
numbers between 17 April 2019 and 10 November 2021 but had been unable to agree an
acceptable proposal for repayment of the outstanding balance(s).
Mr B said hed been in almost constant contact with Barclays since 2018 and had had
dozens of email exchanges with various people. He described it as another example of what
he considered was Barclays appalling communications with both customers and internally.
Hed understood Barclays wouldnt take any further action until our investigation into his
complaint was complete. Hed then agree with Barclays to continue to make the mortgage
payments until an agreed future date or, if we didnt uphold his complaint, make
arrangements to access the tax free cash sums from his pension plans (although that would
take some time).
When we queried the letters with Barclays it confirmed that no further action would be taken
pending our final decision. It said that when the investigator had issued his view (on 3
September 2021) the hold (not to issue court proceedings) was removed. That was normal
procedure. But when Mr B had asked for an ombudsmans decision, the hold shouldve been
put back on but that was overlooked. Barclays apologised.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, were dealing with a complaint about the mortgage and OP2 separately. Ive
seen a jurisdiction decision issued by a colleague on 21 December 2021 in connection with
the mortgage complaint. In it he summarised the issues Mr B and his wife had raised about
their mortgage. Two of the points are confined to the mortgage and the OP2 loan (first,
Barclays not aligning the term of the mortgage with the further advance, when that further
advance was taken in 2000 and, secondly, Barclays declining a request to extend the term
of the mortgage after it had matured and how Barclays had handled the account since then).
But the two other issues relate to Mr Bs pension as well. Namely:
The advice given by Barclays when Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 1998 to
take the borrowing over a term of 20 years, which would expire before they retired,
bearing in mind the repayment vehicle they have in place.
Barclays not providing information proactively about changes to regulations around
pension withdrawals, which Mr B considers Barclays shouldve done, given a pension
was the intended repayment vehicle for the mortgage.On the first point, although theres an overlap with the complaint about the mortgage, Im
only looking at the issue from the perspective of the advice Mr B was given in connection
with the RSA plan and, in particular, if he was correctly advised to set up that plan with a
SRA of 65.
My understanding is that Mr B isnt complaining about the sale of the RSA pension plan or
how its performed, just that he was advised to set it up with a SRA of 65 whereas his
mortgage was to be repaid before then. Mr B is concerned that, if he takes tax free cash
from his pension plans to repay the mortgage and the OP2, he wont then be able to make
further pension contributions although he doesnt intend to retire until age 70.
Although Mr B says he may now work until hes 70, at the time the RSA pension was set up,
hed said he planned to retire sometime between age 55 and 58. And the latest he intended
to retire was age 65. On that basis I dont think a SRA of 65, being the latest age Mr B was
then planning to retire, was incorrect. And its consistent with the SRA for Mr Bs other
pension plan, the GPP. Im not looking at the GPP as Barclays wasnt involved in setting it
up  the GPP was already in existence when Mr B took out his mortgage and so Barclays
isnt responsible for the sale of the GPP.
When the mortgage was set up, it was due to be redeemed before Mr B reached his SRA.
So I can understand why Mr B might say, as he was intending to use the tax free cash from
his pensions to repay his mortgage (and the OP2), the maturity dates for the mortgage and
his pension shouldve been the same. Or his SRA shouldnt have been after the redemption
date for his mortgage.
But, as has been pointed out, the SRA wasnt set in stone. It was open to Mr B to take his
benefits earlier. And without penalty. Or to take benefits later, assuming he was able to
repay his mortgage and the OP2 loan by the due date from another source  I note the
application form for the mortgage records an intention to reduce (chip away) the loan using
bonus payments. So I dont think setting a SRA of 65 for the RSA pension arrangement was
wrong.
I can understand, if Mr B is now going to continue to work until hes 70, hed like to make
further provision for his retirement which he fears hell be unable to do if he takes his tax free
cash from his pension plans. Id advise Mr B to seek independent financial advice. My
understanding is that it may be open to him to take just his tax free cash without triggering
the money purchase annual allowance and which would restrict the amount of the amount of
future pension contributions Mr B can make. But, and as Ive said, hell need to take his own
advice.
About the second issue, my colleague suggested in his jurisdiction decision, that it might be
more appropriate for this to be dealt with as part of the pension (ie this) complaint. So Ive
considered it below. Im mindful that Barclays may not have had an opportunity to comment
on this part of the complaint but, given that Im issuing a provisional decision and taking into
account what Ive said, Im hoping it wont be necessary to treat it as a further and new
complaint.
I can understand why there might be some suggestion that Barclays shouldve kept Mr B
informed about changes to pensions legislation and when Barclays was aware that his
pension was the intended repayment vehicle. But I dont think Barclays had any duty to
provide Mr B with ongoing information about pensions in general. Its a very wide and
complex subject and has been subject to much regulatory and legislative changes, for
example, the pensions freedoms introduced in 2015. I think if there were legislative changes
which might impact on the arrangement that Mr B had with Barclays  that he could take tax
free cash from his pension to repay his mortgage  that might be different. But that wasntthe case  in general, the position remains that up to 25% of a pension fund can be taken as
a tax free cash lump sum. And, as Ive said above, I think it may be open to Mr B to take tax
free cash without impacting on his ability to continue to pay into a pension plan.
Lastly, Ive mentioned above the two letters Barclays sent Mr B and his wife on 10
November 2021. Im conscious this matter could be considered as pertaining more to the
mortgage complaint, as those letters concerned the possibility of repossession proceedings
being instigated. But Barclays has accepted those letters were sent in error, given that Mr B
had asked for an ombudsmans decision in connection with this complaint. So I think the
letters can be treated as part of the (pension) complaint Im considering here. Again I think
its convenient to do that, rather than treating the matter as a new and separate further
complaint.
Barclays has apologised for sending the letters. But I think the letters wouldve worried and
concerned Mr B. The threat of imminent court proceedings to repossess the property
wouldve been very upsetting. And, as hes pointed out, some of what the letters said (such
as Mr B not having been in contact with Barclays) appears to be incorrect. I think Barclays
should pay some compensation for the distress and inconvenience the letters wouldve
caused. Id suggest a figure of £250.
Mr B was disappointed with my provisional findings. He said although Id said the rules had 
changed about drawing down tax free cash from pension plans, that hadnt been the case 
when hed first brought his complaint back in 2018/2019. He didnt think that had been fully 
taken into account in considering how he and his wife had been treated by Barclays at the 
time. Mr B suggested that delays by Barclays over the past four years had worked in 
Barclays favour and my decision hadnt reflected that or the stress and anxiety caused over 
that period. 
Barclays didnt object in principle to my findings. Although it felt that the letters which 
shouldnt have been sent in November 2021 were more to do with the mortgage complaint, it 
was prepared to agree to pay the compensation Id suggested as part of this complaint about 
Mr Bs pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full my provisional findings and which form part of this decision. 
Im sorry Mr B is disappointed and feels that the compensation Ive suggested isnt sufficient. 
But, in the main (and aside from the letters which Barclays accepts shouldnt have sent), I 
havent been able to uphold Mr Bs complaint about his pension. 
I note what Mr B says about the rules regarding pensions having changed. But Im not sure 
that the position about taking tax free cash from a money purchase arrangement has 
changed since 2018/2019. I dont see that any delay has benefited Barclays. Further, and as 
I said in my provisional decision, I dont think there was any onus on Barclays to give Mr B 
ongoing information about changes to pension legislation and/or regulations. Id repeat that 
Mr B may want to seek advice about what options he has and the impact of taking tax free 
cash from his pension arrangements. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint except in respect of the letters Barclays sent on 10 
November 2021. As Ive said, the letters wouldve caused worry and upset. Barclays should 
pay £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the letters wouldve caused. Id stress that Im only considering the pension aspects of the complaint. The complaint 
about the mortgage will be considered separately. 
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint only in part. Barclays Bank UK plc must pay £250 as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman