DRN-3242485
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited imposing 
an hourly rate for their solicitor that wasnt brought to their attention until after Mr L sought to 
use legal expenses cover under a Home insurance policy.
Mrs and Mr L are represented by their solicitor in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L had legal expenses insurance as part of a Home insurance policy.
Mr L instructed a solicitor to act for him in employment tribunal proceedings. 
Mrs and Mr Ls representative contacted DAS to notify it of the claim for legal 
expenses cover, confirming there were reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr L and his representative chased DAS for progress on the claim. And around 5 
weeks after receiving the claim DAS confirmed it could look to cover the matter.
DAS set out two options to Mr L;
oHe uses one of DAS panel employment specialist solicitor firms at no 
additional cost unless the policy limit of £50,000 is exceeded. And set out 
some of the reasons why he might like to use such a firm.
oHe appoints his own solicitor subject to DAS standard hourly rate of £100 
plus VAT.
Mr Ls representative complained that Mr L didnt want to use a panel solicitor. 
DAS explained the hourly rate and asked for a Claims Management Report (CMR). 
DAS also said cover wouldnt apply until it was satisfied there were reasonable 
prospects of success and Terms of Appointment had been signed and received.
Mr Ls representative wouldnt agree to act on DAS hourly rate saying it had been 
superseded by a compromise figure of £175 per hour for several years. The 
representative also complained about delays in DAS progressing Mr Ls claim.
DAS accepted it had caused some delay and offered compensation for that to Mr L. 
But on the issue of the hourly rate DAS stood by the £100 and pointed to the policy 
terms and conditions detailing this rate.
The representative didnt think DAS could rely on the policy terms unless the specific 
terms were drawn to Mr Ls attention prior to him taking up the insurance policy. And 
it considered the hourly rate interfered with Mr Ls freedom to choose a lawyer.
DAS explained that it did not sell the policy to Mr L and so the representatives 
concerns should be directed at the insurer or the broker that sold the policy.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and explained her view that DAS 
didnt need to take further action. She said the policy clearly set out the hourly rate 
for a chosen law firm, and Mr L had the options explained to him. And as it wasnt 
DAS that sold the policy issues about the sale should be directed to the selling firm.
The investigator referred to case law1 that said an insurer has a right to restrict what 
it will pay a non-panel solicitor provided the rate isnt so low as to render meaningless 
the freedom of choice.
There were no apparent issues of complexity in the case or availability of a panel firm 
such that a panel appointed firm wouldnt be able to act. 
On the issue of hourly rate variation, the investigator said the policy did factor in the 
potential for variation but that in all the circumstances there wasnt anything to 
persuade her that DAS had acted contrary to the policy terms or unreasonably.
Finally, on the issue of delay, the investigator noted the CMR had been sent on two 
occasions before being requested again. But DAS apology and compensation offer 
were reasonable in recognising the inconvenience caused to Mr L.
Mr Ls representative asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter saying the 
hourly rate term was never brought to Mr Ls attention prior to him taking out the 
insurance policy. And as such, DAS cant rely on that term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
DAS did not sell the insurance policy to Mrs and Mr L. The legal expenses cover was an 
optional inclusion that Mrs and Mr L added when they bought their Home insurance cover. 
Any dispute about what did or did not happen at the point of sale can only be reasonably 
made to the seller of the policy. DAS has no information about that as it wasnt involved.
The issues for me to determine are therefore about;
i) Any delay in dealing with the claim
ii) The fairness or otherwise of the £100 hourly rate for non-panel solicitors.
I note from the original complaint form and the representatives reply to our investigators 
opinion that delay wasnt an issue raised as a specific complaint point for us to determine. 
That said, our inquisitorial remit allows us to look at all the circumstances. 
An insurer has a duty, among others, to handle claims promptly and fairly. In this case the 
details of the claim and its prospects of success were sent to DAS as early as towards the 
end of March. And yet in May DAS requested the details again even though theyd been sent 
on at least two occasions. DAS accepted it hadnt handled the matter as quickly as it should 
1 Brown Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633have and apologised offering £150 compensation. I can appreciate Mr L was keen to ensure 
cover was in place and the absence of this, because of DAS poor handling, merits a small 
amount of compensation. DAS offer of £150 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused.
The more substantive part of the complaint is about the hourly rate. As Ive said, DAS wasnt 
involved in the sale and issues relating to that should be direct against the seller. So, in 
looking at whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Ill revert initially to the 
contractual position as detailed in the terms and conditions. 
The policy is clear on the hourly rate DAS will pay where Mr L instructs his own solicitor - 
£100 per hour. Even though it says the amount may vary from time to time, the policy 
specifies two specific circumstances, neither of which apply in Mr Ls case. Thinking carefully 
about whats fair and reasonable it may be that a higher rate should apply where Mr Ls case 
is particularly complex, or a panel firm isnt available or suitable. But thats not the case here, 
or certainly not one thats asserted either in the information provided by the parties. Im not 
persuaded the £100 hourly rate in this complaint is unfair as Mr L could have obtained 
suitable legal representation at this rate from DAS panel firms.
Ive thought carefully on the point of £175 per hour rate superseding £100. The completed 
CMR for DAS says £175 is the hourly rate agreed in the representatives most recent DAS 
funded case. A Working Together document was sent which sets out relevant information 
about when a firm acts for a policyholder and the hourly rate is £100 per hour. From the 
information provided, I think its safe to say that the representative was familiar with DAS 
terms when acting in legal expenses insurance backed cases. And Ive seen nothing in the 
context of Mr Ls claim that DAS stated or implied anything other than an hourly rate of £100. 
The representative sought to clarify to DAS that £175 was the rate in use in current cases 
we have with DAS and one that recently completed, Ive seen nothing that suggests £175 
was effectively the default hourly rate for all cases involving the representative and DAS, 
least Mr Ls, such that it would be fair and reasonable to compel DAS to pay anything other 
than the policy rate of £100 per hour already offered and explained to Mr L.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman