DRN-4035717
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was advised by Inter-UK Financial Services Limited (IUK or Inter-
UK) to switch her two existing personal pensions (PPs) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). The recommended portfolio held some investments that either failed or became 
illiquid and Ms L lost money as a result. Ms L was also unable to access her pension for a 
long time. She would like to be reinstated to the position she would have been in if not for 
the advice.
What happened
Ms L wanted advice on her two PPs, which were both invested in With-Profits funds. The 
total value of the two pensions was around £171,000. 
At the time Ms L was self-employed and owned her own home with no mortgage. Aside from 
the two pensions she had about £100,000 in savings. She wanted to reduce the hours she 
worked in a few years, but to maintain her income. IUK recorded Ms L as having a Balanced 
to Adventurous risk profile. 
IUK recorded in its fact-find with Ms L that she wanted control and flexibility with her 
pensions and to be able to continue to make contributions while she was working. She was 
concerned about charges and whether she would be better off with just one pension rather 
than two and wanted to know that someone was managing her fund. 
IUK carried out some analysis then advised Ms L to transfer both PPs into a SIPP with the 
underlying funds managed by SVS Securities, a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), in their 
Mixed Portfolio. The funds were transferred and invested mainly in direct equities and 
unlisted bonds. 
SVS were later placed into administration following serious concerns on behalf of the 
Financial Conduct Authority over how the business was run. SVS had invested client funds, 
including Ms Ls, in a number of high risk, illiquid securities, many of which later became 
worthless (the unlisted bonds). 
Ms L complained to IUK in July 2021, after two years spent trying to get her money back. 
Although IUK acknowledged the complaint no final response was issued. But Ms L says that 
a director of IUK told her by telephone in October 2021 that the complaint would be upheld 
and compensation offered in due course.
By May 2022 the director emailed Ms L to say that he was still trying to calculate 
compensation, but no offer or payment has yet been received. Ms L brought her complaint to 
this service where our investigator upheld the complaint.
Since IUK did not respond, the case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether the advice by IUK to transfer was suitable. COBS 9 of the FCAs 
handbook applies when regulated businesses give advice on pensions and investments, like 
IUK did here. So I have carefully considered whether they met the requirements there. Key 
sections are:
COBS 9.2.1R:
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.2R:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
COBS 9.4.7R:
The suitability report must, at least:
(1) specify the client's demands and needs;
(2) explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable for the 
client having regard to the information provided by the client; and
(3) explain any possible disadvantages of the transaction for the client.
So in order for IUKs advice to be suitable it had to meet these requirements. 
One of Ms Ls concerns was whether she would be better off combining her pensions. She 
also wanted as much income as possible. 
IUKs analysis dated 12 April 2018 shows that the recommended SIPP and SVS portfolio 
was more expensive than both of the existing schemes. The projected fund value at age 66 
with the existing PPs, based on the medium return illustration, was £224,210. The projection 
for the pension fund in the recommended SIPP, based on the same returns, and excluding 
ongoing adviser charges was £168,000. Even the projection for higher returns only achieved 
£206,000 in the SIPP. 
So IUKs recommended switch had to significantly outperform the highest illustration 
provided. And I would normally only expect customers willing to take on high risk 
investments to be able to consistently receive investment returns at or above the higher 
industry projected rates. But IUK also recommended an ongoing advice service, building in 
yet another charge and making it even more likely that Ms Ls pension fund would be worth 
less following its recommendation. 
For this recommendation to be suitable, IUK had to show why the higher costs were justified. 
But the higher costs were not discussed in the suitability report and there is no evidence that Ms L and her adviser discussed the analysis that IUK had carried out. While the SIPP would 
give Ms L the flexibility she wanted, that alone did not justify the higher costs. And there is 
no evidence that IUK carried out any performance analysis of its recommended DFM. There 
is nothing in the suitability report to show why IUK believed that the SIPP/SVS portfolio 
would outperform, or that the level of additional cost was even disclosed. On the whole I 
think that IUKs recommendation was very likely to leave Ms L with a smaller pension fund in 
retirement.
Furthermore, the larger of Ms Ls two pensions (with Standard Life) offered a guaranteed 
growth rate of 4% a year. And had preferential charges of 0.2%. As with the costs, this was 
not disclosed in the report and there is no evidence that the benefit of these things was 
discussed. 
In addition, and also not disclosed or discussed, the SVS portfolio held about 40% in 
potentially illiquid investments. But Ms L was intending to access her fund within a few years. 
This meant there was a risk that Ms L would not be able to sell some of her investments 
when she needed to withdraw money from her pension. 
So I find that the recommendation to transfer to the SIPP did not meet Ms Ls objectives of 
reducing costs and maximising income. The report did not explain why IUK believed the 
advice to be suitable, nor did it explain the possible disadvantages of the recommendation. 
IUK therefore did not meet the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R and COBS 9.4.7R.
IUK had to ensure the recommended portfolio met Ms Ls attitude to risk. There is some 
conflicting information in the file over Ms Ls assessed risk score. The questionnaire 
recorded a score of 46 (although when correctly calculated the score was 48); but the report 
said the score was in the range of 53 to 65 from a potential score of 19 to 66. The 
questionnaire showed a range of scores from 0 to 66+. 
Despite this the description of the risk profile was consistently given as Balanced to 
Adventurous. Ms L later said that she thought her risk profile would be accurately described 
as medium. Some of the questions relate to capacity for loss and knowledge and experience 
of investing. But the responses to questions 5 to 9, which explore her willingness to take risk, 
show that Balanced to Adventurous is a broadly reasonable description of the level of risk 
Ms L was willing to take. 
The resulting portfolio that SVS constructed, based on the statement on file, was much 
higher risk than that. Some 40% of the portfolio was in high risk potentially illiquid unlisted 
bonds. And this part of the portfolio was poorly diversified, with just over half of it from a 
single issuer. Apart from uninvested cash the rest was in equities, including higher risk 
smaller companies. I dont think that Ms L was willing to take this level of risk with her 
pensions.
I also think Ms L had a fairly low capacity for loss in respect of these two pensions. The total 
value was £171,000 and she had about £100,000 of other savings. Ms L wanted to maintain 
a high income in retirement of as much as it could be. Based on her expenditure 
questionnaire this would mean just under £3,000 a month. While this meant that Ms L would 
have to accept some risk, it also meant that she was reliant on her pensions for her 
retirement income. Also, she was intending to start taking benefits in a relatively short period 
of time. 
And as I have already said about 40% of the portfolio was high risk and potentially illiquid, 
with about half from a single issuer. So if this issuer failed, Ms L was facing the loss of 20% 
of her whole pension. Given her relatively short term to retirement and level of contributions 
she would have little opportunity to allow her fund to recover from the potential losses from investing in this way.
Ms L described herself in the questionnaire as not very familiar when it comes to 
investments. Her two existing pensions were invested in the With Profits funds, and the rest 
of her savings was in cash so there was no evidence that she had previously invested in 
non-mainstream or direct investments. 
So I find that the recommended solution was higher risk than Ms L was willing to take, and 
was also higher risk than she could afford to take. Furthermore the risks of direct investment 
into smaller companies and potentially illiquid investments were not explained to Ms L in her 
suitability report, so I dont think she was aware of the level of risk she was taking. And I 
dont think Ms L had sufficient knowledge and experience of investing to understand these 
risks even if they had been explained to her.
So IUK did not meet the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R and COBS 9.4.7R.
So I find that IUKs recommendation to switch from her PPs to the SIPP and DFM portfolio 
was unsuitable for the reasons given above. 
IUK may say that they did not know that SVS would be investing in the high risk, potentially 
illiquid investments. 
But IUK gave the recommendation to invest in the SVS portfolio. They were required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that the portfolio was suitable. That meant finding out about the 
underlying investments. If they didnt do that (and there is no evidence they did) they would 
not have been able to determine whether the transaction as a whole was suitable, and would 
therefore not have met the requirement at COBS 9.1.1R.
I understand that IUK might take the view that SVS are also responsible for some of the 
losses. Although SVS were responsible for the individual investment decisions, IUK 
recommended the SVS portfolio service, so were responsible for ensuring it was suitable. 
Ms L remained a client of IUK, relying on their advice. I can see no evidence that Ms L would 
ever have invested with SVS if not for IUKs advice. 
Furthermore there is no evidence that IUK ever advised Ms L that the SVS portfolio was 
unsuitable, and in the absence of such advice Ms L was entitled to believe that it was 
suitable. If SVS had stepped outside of their remit in the types of investment, IUK would or 
ought to have known when carrying out the reviews as described in their service proposition. 
In any case, I have already explained that the advice was unsuitable because of the 
increased costs which were not justified and because Ms L did not have the knowledge and 
experience necessary to understand or need the services of a DFM. 
I think its important to clarify that Im not saying IUK is wholly responsible for the losses 
simply because SVS Securities is now in liquidation. I have explained above why I have 
found that IUKs advice was unsuitable, notwithstanding any wrongdoing by SVS. But for 
that unsuitable advice, Ms Ls pension would, more likely than not, have been in a personal 
pension in a mainstream medium risk investment portfolio. She would never have been 
placed into a position where she was exposed to the types of financial risk that she was but 
for IUKs mistake. So I think it is fair and reasonable that IUK should take full responsibility 
for Ms Ls losses as a result of its advice.
It is clear that Ms L was looking to review her pensions and make some changes. It is not 
clear exactly what she would have done but I think that if she had been given suitable 
advice, she would have changed providers to another PP that offered flexible access without the additional costs and risks of a DFM. I think she should have been advised to invest in a 
medium risk portfolio, taking into account her assessed risk profile and relatively low 
capacity for loss. But in fairness to IUK Ms L would still have taken advice on her pension so 
I am not going to require them to refund the initial fee because she would have had to pay a 
fee in any case. 
In summary I find that IUKs advice was unsuitable as their recommendation caused Ms L to 
incur higher charges and did not match her risk profile or capacity for loss. 
Ms L has been attempting to resolve this issue for some time now and it has caused her 
great inconvenience and worry about the loss of such a large portion of her pension.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms L should be put as closely as possible into the position she would probably 
now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms L would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Ms L's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must IUK do?
To compensate Ms L fairly, IUK must:
Compare the performance of Ms L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
IUK should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
IUK should pay into Ms L's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If IUK is unable to pay the total amount into Ms L's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition IUK must also pay directly to Ms L a sum of £300 for the worry and time 
taken in resolving this issue. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IUK deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Ms L how much has been taken off. IUK should give Ms L a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Ms L asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Momentum 
SIPPSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount of Ms Ls pension at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. IUK 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount IUK pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If IUK is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. IUK may require that Ms L provides an undertaking 
to pay IUK any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. IUK will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the pension fund would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Momentum SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if IUK totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Momentum SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Momentum SIPP 
to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by IUK taking over the portfolio, 
or this is something that Ms L can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If you are 
unable to purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that you pay 
Ms L an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using 
the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties 
to arrange for the Momentum SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms L wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms L's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms L in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman