DRN-2535414
The complaint
Mr M and Ms K complain that Zurich Insurance PLC has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms K took out an annual travel insurance policy on 10 July 2019, which was due to 
run until 9 July 2020. In November 2019, they booked a holiday to a country Ill call A. Their 
trip was scheduled to take place between 28 March and 5 April 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. As 
government announced a travel ban on all travellers arriving from the EU (including UK 
citizens) on 14 March 2020. The ban took effect on 16 March 2020. On 17 March 2020, the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel 
abroad on 17 March 2020. And on 23 March 2020, the UK imposed wide-ranging restrictions 
on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This government announcement included 
an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
Mr M began to suffer from symptoms on 27 March 2020 and obtained a self-isolation 
certificate. On the same day, the planned holiday was cancelled. Mr M and Ms K were able 
to obtain flight refunds from their carrier, but some cancellation costs remained outstanding. 
So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Zurich turned down the claim. It said the policy terms didnt cover cancellation due to FCO 
advice. It also told us that while it accepted Mr M had been suffering from symptoms of 
Covid-19, it didnt think he and Ms K wouldve been able to travel in any event, given the 
restrictions imposed by As government and the FCO. So it didnt think Mr M and Ms Ks 
claim was covered.
Mr M and Ms K were unhappy with Zurichs decision and asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr M and Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
the policy terms covered the circumstances of the claim. And she noted that both the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy terms stated that travel against 
FCO advice wasnt covered. She also thought that given the prevailing travel restrictions at 
the time, it was unlikely Mr M and Ms K couldve taken their trip.
Mr M and Ms K disagreed. They felt the cancellation on health grounds should be looked at 
in isolation. They felt that the FCO exclusion shouldnt apply to claims made on health 
grounds.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Ms K, I think it was fair for Zurich to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr M and Ms Ks policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
Zurich handled the claim fairly.
I understand the situation in which Mr M and Ms K found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, when the insurance was 
purchased in July 2019, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have 
been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Zurichs obligations under its contract with Mr M and Ms K are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr M and Ms Ks policy says that Zurich will pay for a policyholders unused costs if a 
holiday is cancelled because of one of a list of specific insured events. The Cancellation and 
cutting short a trip section of Mr M and Ms Ks policy says Zurich will pay such costs if a trip 
is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
Accidental death, injury, illness of you, a close relative, travel companion, or 
someone with whom you have arranged to reside with during your trip.
Witness summons, jury service or compulsory quarantine (on the orders of the 
treating medical practitioner) of you or your travel companion.
Redundancy (qualifying for payment under UK redundancy payment legislation) or 
having a contract ended early if self-employed, of you or your travel companion.
Your or your travel companions home suffering serious damage by fire, burglary, 
storm or flood in the seven days prior to the start date of your trip or during your trip.
The police requiring your presence because your or your travel companions home or 
place of work has been burgled.
If you are a member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, police, ambulance, fire or 
nursing service, in the UK, and you are called for unexpected emergency duty or 
posted outside the UK at the time of your intended pre-booked trip.
Mr M and Ms K say that their trip was cancelled due to Mr M developing recognised 
symptoms of Covid-19 on 27 March 2020. Ive seen a copy of the self-isolation certificate Mr 
M was provided with and I accept he was told to isolate between 27 March and 2 April 2020. 
I dont dispute that he followed the applicable NHS advice at that time. I also agree that a 
policyholders illness is one of the listed, insured events which Zurich provides cover for. 
But in order for me to fairly find that Zurich should settle Mr M and Ms Ks claim, Id need to 
be satisfied that there werent other reasons which contributed to Mr M and Ms K cancelling 
their trip. And in the circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied that this was the case for 
the reasons Ill now set out.
Mr M and Ms K were due to travel to A on 28 March 2020. But on 14 March 2020, As 
government closed its borders to UK and EU nationals with effect from 16 March 2020. On this basis then, it seems to me that if Mr M and Ms K had flown to A as planned, its most 
likely that they wouldve been denied entry. Ive borne in mind too that the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020  resulting in many airlines 
cancelling flights. And the imposition of lockdown on 23 March 2020 meant that UK nationals 
could only leave their home for a very limited number of reasons and travel outside of the 
local area was strictly limited. I find then that regardless of Mr Ms illness, its highly unlikely 
that he and Ms K would have been able to travel as theyd intended, or that they could gain 
entry into A. It seems to me that Mr M and Ms K wouldve been aware that their trip would 
necessarily have to be cancelled some days before Mr M developed symptoms. Such 
circumstances arent covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCO advice, I might think it was 
fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to Zurich to do so 
here. 
This is because the Cancellation and cutting short your trip section of Mr M and Ms Ks 
policy also says:
What is not covered
Any loss directly or indirectly arising from any governments regulations control or act, 
bankruptcy, liquidation, error, omission or default of any travel agency, tour operator, public 
transport carrier and/or other provider of any service forming part of the booked trip.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr M and Ms Ks claim. A 
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCO advice and government restrictions 
both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr M and Ms 
Ks decision to cancel their trip.
But the trip was cancelled on 27 March 2020  11 days after the travel ban imposed by As 
government, 10 days after the FCO advice against travel was issued and four days after the 
UK restrictions on movement were announced. These restrictions remained in force until 
after Mr M and Ms K would have been due to return to the UK. 
So, given the factors and the timeline Ive set out above, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Zurich to rely on the exclusion Ive outlined above in the circumstances of this claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Ms K and I understand that theyve been left out of pocket 
for reasons beyond their control. But overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to 
turn down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman