DRN-3655695
The complaint
Miss M and Mr W have complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd, unfairly refused to pay their claim for the removal of hairbands from their dogs stomach. 
Theyve also complained that Casualty wrongly imposed a retrospective exclusion for 
anything to do with their dogs digestive tract. 
For ease I shall just refer to Miss M throughout my decision as she was our main contact 
through their complaint. 
What happened
Miss M bought this policy online on 2 June 2021 for her dog who was born on 26 January 
2021, so he was 6 months old at the time. 
In July 2021 Miss Ms dog swallowed some hair bobbles and needed surgery to remove 
them. Initially the dog presented with some diarrhoea issues at the vet before the decision 
for surgery was then made. So, she claimed from Casualty. On reading the vet history, 
Casualty decided that Miss Ms dog has pre-existing diarrhoea issues which wasnt 
disclosed. On that basis it refused to pay Miss Ms claim and imposed a retrospective 
exclusion on the policy excluding all claims in relation to her dogs digestive tract. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said the vet history showed her dogs diarrhoea didnt start until 
after the policy started. More importantly she said it didnt have anything to do with the fact 
that her dog required surgery because he had eaten some hair bobbles. Casualty wouldnt 
change its stance, so Miss M brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator was of the view that it should be upheld as she didnt think the ingestion of 
hair bobbles had anything to do with any previous bouts of diarrhoea. More so given the 
evidence given by Miss Ms vet. 
She also thought that because Casualty didnt ask any questions on its application form 
about pre-existing conditions, Miss M had no opportunity to explain about her dogs 
diarrhoea (if it had existed at the time she took out the policy) therefore she didnt think 
Casualty could impose the retrospective excluding issues with the entire digestive tract 
either. 
Miss M agreed but Casualty didnt. So, Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill now 
explain why. 
First, as regarding Casualtys decision to decline Miss Ms claim, I dont consider this was 
reasonable to say it was somehow related to a previous bout of diarrhoea given the 
particular evidence of the vet history for Miss Ms dog. 
The history shows that the owner (Miss M or Mr W) phoned the vet clinic on 19 July 2021 to 
say the following: 
that [name of dog] had been admitted to [name of emergency clinic] last night for a 
foreign body op as he had eaten bobbles. 
That was nearly a month after the previous entry about diarrhoea. There is singularly no 
evidence that any diarrhoea was continuing between the last episode and this entry.  So, 
there is no evidence this ingestion event was somehow connected to previous issues of 
diarrhoea, notwithstanding that at the time, he had some diarrhoea. The reason Casualty 
refused to pay this claim is because it had decided on reading the vet history to impose a 
retrospective exclusion on the dogs digestive tract. Therefore, because this was an 
operation on his digestive tract, it believed the costs of the operation were thereby so 
excluded. 
Its a fact the dog swallowed the hair bobbles and that in itself cant be connected to any 
other medical issues at all. Simply an opportunistic puppy eating and swallowing something 
he shouldnt, which is unsurprisingly common with young dogs. Miss Ms vet is very clear 
that Miss Ms dog could not have ingested these hair bobbles over six weeks previously 
either before the policy started or at the time the policy started and thats a plainly rational 
observation too. Most certainly the dog would have just got sicker and sicker if that had been 
the case and there would have been no gap of a month in the vet history either. 
So, although the dogs symptoms were initially looking like a recurrence of the previous 
diarrhoea issue, that wasnt the case because on opening the dog up the hair bobbles were 
found. The costs that Casualty has refused to pay relate to the costs of the operation to 
remove the hair bobbles, which were of course incurred following the investigation of how 
the dog presented at the vet on the day in question.
 
Turning now to the imposition of the exclusion by Casualty on Miss Ms policy. As the 
investigator detailed the law surrounding this is contained in the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). In order to rely on a qualifying 
misrepresentation by the consumer, the insurer has to show it asked the consumer 
questions which the consumer didnt answer correctly. Only then are the remedies available 
to the insurer. Which would also include imposing an exclusion but only if the insurer can 
show that if it knew the content of the correct answers to the questions it asked the 
consumer, it wouldnt have offered the policy on the terms it did. 
So, the first point to analyse is what questions did Casualty ask Miss M about this. In 
Casualtys letter to Miss M of 8 December 2021, Casualty said the following:
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
evident of an accident.
However, in Casualtys final response letter it didnt keep to this wording and said the 
following instead:Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a condition is no longer covered?
In response to the investigators questions about Miss Ms online journey in buying the policy 
Casualty said she would have been asked the following,  Do you want to cover any pre-
existing medical conditions for [name of dog]? with the only option to answer yes or no, 
there was no ability for Miss M to provide any details had she wished to.
Later, in the online process, Casualty said there was a list of assumptions that included the 
following: 
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or has displayed symptoms (changes in my pets normal healthy state, condition, 
appearance, bodily functions or behaviour) or if it were to arise within the first 14 
days from the policy start date or 5 days in the event of an accident.
Its concerning to me Casualty has provided all of these different wordings as that doesnt 
show me with any clarity what exactly Miss M would have seen. Notwithstanding that issue, 
none of these are questions on which any answer or agreement given by Miss M, could be 
seen as a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. None of them ask Miss M to disclose 
anything about her dogs vet history at all. So, there was no opportunity for Miss M to either 
disclose truthful answers or indeed answers that were wrong. Asking a consumer whether 
they wanted cover for pre-existing conditions doesnt in my view show the consumer is under 
any duty to disclose anything. Therefore, because nothing was asked to be disclosed, there 
is no ability to say Miss M misrepresented anything. Therefore, it follows there isnt any 
existence of a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, here.
On that basis the remedy Casualty has sought to use, namely imposing the exclusion for the 
digestive tract of Miss Ms dog isnt available to Casualty to use here. Further Casualty also 
hasnt shown us any underwriting evidence from its underwriting guide that dogs as young 
as Miss M dog was at the time could fairly have an exclusion for the entire digestive tract 
imposed in these circumstances. Given puppies might often have diarrhoea from new 
surroundings, new or changing food, or even possibly some sensitivity to things like chicken-
based food which is so common in dogs anyway. That in turn doesnt mean there is anything 
endemically wrong with the dogs digestive tract to show its a risk from an underwriting 
perspective either. Normally in such young dogs we might also see that the exclusion would 
be reviewable after a year or so also. But Casualty didnt disclose any of this information to 
us. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following:
Review Miss M and Mrs Ws claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
with a firm view to paying it. 
If Miss M and Mr W have already discharged their vets fees, it should refund them 
the fees adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date they discharged their 
vets fees to the date of the refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss M and Mr W for HMRC 
purposes. Remove the exclusion in relation to the dogs digestive tract. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman