DRN-3840797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S are insured under a travel insurance policy which is provided as a benefit of 
their bank account. The travel insurance policy is underwritten by Aviva. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mrs S was injured in a car accident. She was taken 
to hospital and treated for her injuries. Mrs S says the treating doctor told her she could 
travel back to the UK as planned the following day if she could lie down comfortably on the 
flight. So, Mr S arranged for business class flight upgrades for Mrs S and himself, as Mrs Ss 
carer. 
Mrs S made a claim with Aviva for the cost of the business class flight upgrades. Aviva said 
the claim wasnt covered because Mr and Mrs S hadnt contacted the medical emergency 
assistance helpline before making alternative travel arrangements, and because Mrs S had 
only provided limited medical information relating to her claim. Aviva sent Mr and Mrs S final 
response letters dated 22 February 2022 and 4 March 2022 and Mr and Mrs S brought a 
complaint to our service. I made a final decision about Mr and Mrs Ss first complaint about 
Aviva on 11 November 2022. I said I didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim for the reasons set out in the aforementioned final response 
letters, based on the medical information available at the time. 
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs S sent new evidence to Aviva. This included a new letter from 
the treating doctor abroad, the results of an ultrasound carried out in the UK after the 
accident and a letter from Mrs Ss GP dated 29 July 2022. Aviva considered the new 
evidence and carried out additional enquiries. On 30 September 2022 and 18 October 2022, 
Aviva declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim again. Aviva said it had spoken to Mrs Ss treating 
doctor abroad, who said that Mrs S had requested the flight upgrades. Aviva also said Mrs S 
had made a similar claim in 2018, when she also hadnt contacted Avivas medical 
assistance helpline. Aviva sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs S dated 28 October 
2022. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss second complaint and said she didnt think Aviva 
had acted unfairly by turning down their claim. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This final decision relates only to Avivas decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim for the 
reasons given in its letters of September 2022 and October 2022. I wont be revisiting or 
commenting further on any of the findings made in my final decision dated 11 November 
2022. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making this final decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but I wont be upholding their complaint and Ill explain 
why:
Im very sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs S have been through such a difficult time. I 
dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S were involved in a car accident and that Mrs S was 
taken to hospital abroad. I understand that Mrs S has underlying pre-existing medical 
issues which impact upon her life, and that Mr S is her carer. None of this is in 
dispute, and so, any failure by Aviva to request the CCTV footage mentioned by Mr 
and Mrs S doesnt affect my final decision. But this doesnt automatically mean that 
Aviva is obliged to pay Mr and Mrs Ss claim. Aviva is only responsible for paying Mr 
and Mrs Ss claim if theres evidence that it was medically necessary for Mr and Mrs 
S to return to the UK in business class seats. 
As Mr S has correctly pointed out, were not medically qualified and its not for me to 
reach my own medical conclusions about Mrs Ss medical condition after her 
accident, or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive 
considered whether I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably based on the 
available medical evidence in this case. 
Ive considered the GP letters dated July 2022 and November 2022, but I dont think 
these carry persuasive weight as to whether it was medically necessary for Mr and 
Mrs S to upgrade their flights in February 2022. The letters arent contemporaneous 
and were written some time after the accident, based on Mrs Ss description to her 
GP of the events that had happened. I also dont think the ultrasound results 
demonstrate that its likely it was medically necessary for Mr and Mrs S to upgrade 
their flights, regardless of how many months after their return to the UK the 
ultrasound was performed.  
Id generally consider that the evidence of a treating doctor carries significant 
persuasive weight. The new evidence provided to Aviva by Mr and Mrs S included a 
letter from the treating doctor abroad. In a letter dated 1 February 2022, he said I 
adviced [sic]  they can continue with their travels provided their upgraded flight 
seats to facilitate  to lay down comfortably. At the time I adviced [sic] of the above it 
was medically necessary in my opinion as the treating doctor, or she would have 
been unable to travel.  wouldnt have been able to travel in the normal flight seats 
as she needed to lay and rest her injury.
However, Aviva says the treating doctor subsequently told it that the medical 
certificates in this case advising the airline to upgrade Mr and Mrs Ss seats were 
issued at the request of the patient. I understand Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that 
Aviva hasnt provided them with any evidence in support of this. I cant direct Aviva to 
release this information to Mr and Mrs S, but Ive seen records of Avivas enquiries 
with the treating doctor, and Im satisfied that what Aviva has said accurately reflects 
the response it was given by Mrs Ss treating doctor. 
Mr and Mrs S have since provided another report from the treating doctor, dated 3 
November 2022, which says I advised her to travel in comfortable position with 
shoulder immobilizer applied, as they mentioned that they are travelling to the UK. I was contacted in person asking information regarding the same incident about  if 
she was a patient and I acknowledged she was, and I advised her to travel in 
comfortable position with shoulder immobilizer applied, and that was put in writing. 
But this report doesnt explicitly confirm that Mr and Mrs S were advised that it was 
medically necessary to upgrade to business class flights. 
Based on the available medical evidence from the treating doctor, which I think is 
inconsistent, and in circumstances where Mr and Mrs S didnt contact Aviva before 
amending their travel arrangements, I cant reasonably conclude that its likely it was 
medically necessary for Mr and Mrs S to return to the UK on business class flights. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs S any less 
favourably than other policyholders with different characteristics. 
As a final point, Mr and Mrs Ss previous claim in 2018 hasnt influenced the outcome 
of this decision. 
This means I wont be directing Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman