DRN-3661918
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr D alleges that the installer misled Mr D into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr D signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost of the panels and therefore the system would 
not be immediately self-funding in the way Mr D says he was led to believe. So, the 
adjudicator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr D disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and little reliance was placed on the documentation. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr D was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
(£8,775) next to the total estimated year 1 (£624.36) benefit provided by the solar panel 
system. It also sets out that Mr D was to fund part of the purchase using finance. This 
section says that Mr D was to use a 3-year loan provided by Ikano and the finance amount 
(i.e. the amount he was borrowing) was £6,575. 
These figures are not hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And 
Mr D has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, 
seen this comparison when he signed the document. 
This section sets out that Mr D was taking a loan for £6,575 repayable over three years  so 
he would need to pay over £2,000 per year to meet his annual loan payments. I think its 
apparent that an annual benefit amount of £624.36 wouldnt cover the annual cost of his loan 
repayments (which would be over £2,000 per year). 
Overall, I think its more likely that it was made clear to him that the solar panels would not 
be self-funding. And, if Mr D had been told something different, on being asked to sign this 
document, I would have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen 
no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not 
contradict Mr Ds understanding, at that time. 
I understand Mr Ds representatives say he was told the figures were simply estimates, and 
he relied in the verbal representations made by the installer. But I dont think its likely that 
Mr D would agree to take out finance and continue with a significant purchase without some 
further discussion and explanation as to how that short fall was going to be achieved.
So, while Ive carefully considered Mr Ds testimony, I find the documents from the time of 
sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman