DRN-3405542
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money closed his credit card 
account. 
Mr K is represented in this complaint by Mrs K. But for ease, Ill refer to Mr K throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mr K held a credit card with Virgin Money for more than 25 years. Mr K says he moved to a 
new house in 2015 and informed Virgin Money of his change of address. In September 
2021, Mr K says he visited the bank and was told that his credit card account had been 
closed. 
Virgin Money said they sent Mr K a letter in November 2016  this letter notified Mr K that his 
card was due to expire in a few months and that as he wasnt using it on a regular basis, a 
new card wouldnt normally be issued automatically once the old one expired. But should Mr 
K wish to keep his account open, he needed to make a purchase on the card within the 
following two months. Alternatively, if Mr K didnt want to make a purchase, the letter says he 
could have contacted Virgin Money prior to his card expiring. However, Mr K said he never 
received this letter. Mr K is unhappy as he says it took him years to build up a healthy credit 
limit, and that without this card his credit history will be impacted.
Virgin Money said Mr K notified them of the change of address in May 2015, but this didnt 
appear to have been updated on their credit card system. So, Virgin Money acknowledged 
the letter was, in fact, sent to Mr Ks previous address, and not the address hed updated 
Virgin Money with in 2015. Virgin Money said they were unable to reopen Mr Ks credit card 
account as its not something that can be done when an account is fully closed. Virgin 
Money apologised for this error and explained Mr K is welcome to apply for a new credit card 
account with them. In recognition of the error caused, Virgin Money paid Mr K £100 
compensation in October 2021. However, Mr K wants Virgin Money to compensate him £200 
and to reopen his credit card account.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ks concerns. In summary, he said it was unfortunate Mr K 
didnt receive the letter Virgin Money sent in November 2016 and had he done so, he might 
have taken the actions he needed to in order to avoid the account closure. However, our 
Investigator said he could see Mr K hadnt used the card for a number of years and he didnt 
think Virgin Moneys explanation of not being able to reopen the account since its closure 
was unfair. Overall, our Investigator thought Virgin Moneys compensation of £100 was fair.
Mr K disagreed. He said while he may not have been using his card in the past years, he 
had the reassurance that there was some available credit on it that could have been used in 
a time of need. Mr K said had he received that letter; he would have used the card as 
explained in the letter to keep the account open. Mr K also said as a result of Covid-19, lots 
of people have lost their jobs so he doesnt think the bank would give a credit card as easily. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he didnt receive the letter Virgin Money sent out in 
November 2016. Mr K says had it been sent to his right address, he wouldve done what was 
needed to keep the account open.
Ive first looked at the accounts terms and conditions and I can see they say Virgin Money 
can give at least two months written notice to Mr K to end their agreement. With this in mind, 
I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly when writing to Mr K letting him know of the 
potential closure of his account  given the card was about to expire and he hadnt used it 
for some time. 
Virgin Money have provided evidence of the address change made in May 2015. But for 
some reason, Virgin Money say Mr Ks address wasnt updated on their credit card system. 
And this was the reason why the letter was sent to Mr Ks previous address. Its clear 
something went wrong in updating Mr Ks address which Virgin Money have acknowledged. 
So, whats left for me to decide is whether this error had an impact on Mr K and if Virgin 
Money need to do anything more to put things right.
Mr K says he found out when going into a bank branch in September 2021 that his account 
had closed. Both Mr K and Virgin Money have acknowledged that Mr K hadnt used the 
account for some time  and this was the reason Virgin Money sent out the letter. While Mr 
K acknowledged this, he said that having the card provided him with some reassurance that 
he could use it if he wanted to. I can understand Mr Ks concerns and frustrations especially 
as he says he feels he spent a lot of time building up a good credit history on this account. 
Even though I think Virgin Money did something wrong in sending the letter notifying Mr K 
about the account possibly closing to a previous address, I dont think this has caused an 
impact to Mr K. I say this because Mr K wasnt using the account and hadnt noticed the 
account had closed until at least four years later. I appreciate Mr K says he feels he spent a 
lot of time building up a good credit history, but I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Ks 
credit history has been impacted as a result of this account closing.
Given that some years have passed since Mr Ks account closed, I dont think Virgin 
Moneys suggestion that if Mr K wants to open a new account, hed need to apply for one is 
unreasonable. I say this because Virgin Money have a duty to ensure they dont lend 
irresponsibly. So, its likely Virgin Money will have to assess Mr Ks financial situation before 
agreeing to open a new credit card account for him. And I think its reasonable to suggest 
theyd have to gather information about Mr Ks financial standing, whether it be via an 
application or other means, before making their lending decision. Mr K can contact Virgin 
Money if he wishes to apply for a new credit card.
I understand Mr K has said he feels Virgin Money wanted to close his account sooner rather 
than later because hed made an insurance claim which he didnt feel was fairly assessed by 
Virgin Money. While I can understand Mr Ks concerns, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this may have been the case  as Virgin Moneys letter explained, they noticed Mr 
Ks card was due to expire and that it wasnt being used on a regular basis.
With that said, I can appreciate it must have been concerning for Mr K to then find out his 
account had been closed and he wasnt notified of this. And I think it wouldve caused Mr K 
worry to find out a letter had been sent to his previous address. With this in mind, I think Virgin Moneys compensation of £100 is fair in the circumstances. Therefore, I wont be 
asking Virgin Money to do anything more.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman