DRN-2970088
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc didnt help him when he wanted to get some money 
back for an item he bought, which he said was faulty.
What happened
Mr G said that he bought something through a popular online auction site. He said the item 
was faulty, and when he complained, the site hed bought through and the e-money provider 
hed used to pay both said he was too late to return it. So Mr G said he asked Santander to 
help. Santander said it would send Mr G some documentation he needed to complete, but 
although it apparently tried to send this three or four times, Mr G said he never received it. 
Mr G said Santander had admitted making two mistakes and paid him £50. But he said hed 
lost £230. Mr G said he was waiting for the letter from the bank to return the item, and as 
that never arrived, hes now too late to return it.
Santander said Mr G wanted to dispute a transaction for £235 and one other transaction 
which isnt the subject of this complaint. It had made mistakes on two separate occasions in 
sending the forms it needed to Mr G, on 6 and 15 December 2019. But it said it had then 
sent him the forms on four other occasions, on 23 December 2019, and 2, 13 and 15 
January 2020. It didnt know why Mr G hadnt received those. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander accepted it 
didnt send documentation out to Mr G right away, when he asked to raise a claim. It had 
paid Mr G £50 to say sorry for that, which our investigator thought was fair. But then 
Santander did send the right documentation to Mr G, repeatedly. Our investigator said 
Santander couldnt be held responsible if this post had all gone astray. It was sending things 
to the right address. 
Our investigator also said that even if the forms had arrived, Mr G needed to return the item, 
before Santander could help him. And he hadnt done that. So our investigator didnt think 
that Santander had to do any more.
Mr G didnt agree with this. Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr Gs statements show that he made a payment of £235 on 13 October 2019. Mr G 
contacted Santander to say that he was unhappy with this purchase in early December 
2019. There appears to have been some confusion about whether the goods had arrived or 
not, but Im satisfied that Mr G did tell Santander hed received the item. 
Mr G had apparently understood that he was out of time to make a claim through the e-
money service he used to purchase the item. I dont think thats likely to be right, as the 
buyer protection that this e-money provider offers usually lasts 180 days from a purchase. 
But I can see that Santander also said it would try to help Mr G. 
Santander has explained that it wanted Mr G to complete a disclaimer, and forward 
information about the transaction, so it could dispute this for him. Santander never got this 
information from Mr G. Mr G says thats because he didnt get the form. 
Santander has accepted that it made a mistake, and didnt send the forms out at first. Its 
paid Mr G £50 for that. I think thats a fair amount to make up for this part of Mr Gs 
complaint. 
But then I can see that Santander did send the form out a number of times, and it sent that 
correspondence to the right address. If Mr G didnt get those forms, I dont think thats 
Santanders fault. So I dont think its Santanders fault that it wasnt able to dispute this 
complaint for Mr G. 
I also note, as our investigator said, that Mr G doesnt seem to have returned the item. I think 
that Santander had explained that Mr G would have to do that, and it wouldnt be fair for him 
to have the item, and also get his money back. I think thats right. So, because it doesnt look 
like Mr G had tried to return the item, I also have to bear in mind that it doesnt seem that the 
dispute over this transaction was likely to be successful.
I know that Mr G will be disappointed, but I dont think that what has gone wrong here is 
Santanders fault. So I dont think its got to do anything more. And that means his complaint 
wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman