DRN-2612713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint relates to the decision of Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (trading as LV=) to decline their claim made under a home insurance policy for 
damage following a storm.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs L contacted LV to state that around two months previously, they 
had become aware of some damage to their roof tiles, leading to water staining on a ceiling. 
They stated that the damage had occurred due to storm force winds.
LV appointed a contractor to inspect the roof. It reported that there were some tiles that had 
slipped, or were cracked, and that this was the result of nail fatigue. It also stated that the 
roof was bowing, suggested that batons used within its structure had deteriorated through 
wear and tear, and that there may have been long term water ingress.
LV accepted that there were storm conditions around the time that Mr and Mrs L had said 
the damage had occurred. But its view was that the main cause of the damage to the roof 
was wear and tear due to nail fatigue. As a result, LV declined the claim made.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with LVs decision on the claim, and also the fact that LV had 
not provided them with a quotation for repairs. They stated that their claim had been handled 
poorly, with long delays between the communications they received about it. As a result, 
they brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator contacted LV regarding the delays in handling the claim. It offered to pay Mr 
and Mrs L £100 compensation in respect of this. In terms of the claim being declined, our 
investigators view was that LV had acted fairly. She also considered that LVs contractor 
was not obliged to provide Mr and Mrs L with a quotation for the repairs.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators findings. They stated that a leak had 
previously been repaired around 25 years ago, and that this repair had been fine until storms 
in 2020. Mr and Mrs L also said that a builder had viewed the loft and commented upon its 
great build and condition.
Mr and Mrs L have said that one of LVs contractors promised to send them an estimate, and 
the contractor had also agreed that five storms had occurred around this time in the area. 
They have stated that LVs contractors had not been inside their property, including the loft, 
to assess the damage and to see the water ingress. Mr and Mrs L have commented that a 
recent trip up into the loft had shown that there is a problem with their chimney.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls claim was considered under the cover provided by the policy for storm 
damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
My understanding is that both parties accept that there were storm force winds leading up to 
the time that Mr and Mrs L noticed water leaking into their home. And damage to roofs is 
consistent with what storm force winds can do. What I need to determine is whether in my 
view, these storm force winds were the main cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ls roof.
One of the contractors who LV appointed to inspect Mr and Mrs Ls property produced a 
report. This stated that we have noted that there are some cracked and slipped tiles on the 
roof. These are suffering from nail fatigue and are in areas where previous temporary repairs 
have been completedWe also note that the roof is bowing as it appears the batons have 
deteriorated through wear & tear and possible long-term water ingress/deterioration. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ls comments that LVs contractors did not inspect the inside of 
their home, including the loft space. However, in my view the report produced by LVs 
contractor indicates that there was a level of detail in the inspection carried out.
In assessing this matter, I must balance the evidence that has been provided by the parties.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have stated a repair done a number of years earlier to the 
roof had prevented any water ingress before the storms experienced in 2020. But I consider 
it reasonable to place some evidential weight on the report provided by LVs contractor. I am 
also mindful that the repairs mentioned by Mr and Mrs L were carried out around 25 years 
ago.
Mr and Mrs L have recently mentioned a problem that they have found with their chimney, 
but the detail provided about that is limited. Overall, based on the balance of evidence 
forwarded, my view is that it was reasonable for LV to decline the claim on the basis that 
storm had not been shown to be the main cause of the damage sustained.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy that LVs contractor had not provided them with a quotation for 
repairs. But on the basis that LV was not liable under the policy for the damage being 
claimed for, I do not consider that it was required to provide a repair quotation for this 
damage.
LV has offered to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation of £100 for delays in dealing with the 
claim. Based on awards made on cases with similar circumstances, my view is that this 
represents a fair payment for the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs L £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to them due to delays in handling the claim.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021. 
John SwainOmbudsman