DRN-3354788
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L (the complainants) say a partner in Houghton Edwards LLP (HE) churned 
their Pension and Investment Accounts to generate commission and that he did so through 
investment switches conducted without their knowledge and without their consent/authority. 
They seek compensation for the switch fees they incurred, for the loss of growth that they 
say their accounts would have had but for the switches and for the cost of they incurred in 
having to transfer their accounts to a new firm.
What happened
The complainants say their accounts were churned between July 2020 and January 2021; 
that the partner conducted 75 unauthorised switches within their accounts during this period; 
that he generated and benefited from a total of around £47,000 in switch fees associated 
with his unauthorised actions; that they can find no other rationale or justification for the 
switches he conducted, other than the generation of fees; that they were alerted to his 
actions by the provider of the platform on which their accounts were held; that they never 
agreed to the application of switch fees in their account; that they incurred around £56,000 in 
lost growth, that their three accounts (an investment account and two pension portfolios) 
would have had if they had been left as they were prior to the churning; and that, upon 
discovery of the partners/HEs misconduct (which they reported to the regulator and which 
the regulator is investigating), they were forced to change firms and incurred a £10,000 
establishment fee with their new adviser.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. In 
the main, he said:
HEs 2015 client agreement with the complainants sets out an advisory 
service/relationship and there is nothing within it that gave HE discretionary authority. 
The complainants confirm that prior to July 2020 transactions were agreed with them 
in advance. HE was invited to provide evidence of discretionary authority but it did 
not do so. Instead it asserted that the complainants had always been happy with its 
management of their accounts. HE had no discretionary authority in its service to the 
complainants.
With regards to application of switch fees, the complainants say they never agreed to 
this, and that the 2020 paperwork HE has referred to was presented to, and signed 
by, them on the understanding that it applied to changing the method of paying fees 
 not to the addition of switch fees to the service. They believe HE altered the 
document after they signed it in order to add the provision for switch fees. He (the 
investigator) cannot determine this claim, but the context in which the documentation 
was signed suggests that it was unlikely the complainants agreed to the addition of 
switch fees to the service. Their retirement at the time led to their need to change the 
way in which the service fees were billed, and they sought to have the fees deducted 
from their funds (which was not previously the case). Given this purpose, it is unlikely 
they would suddenly have agreed switch fees that did not exist over the previous 
years of HEs service. On balance, it is unlikely they agreed to this.
HE says it considered that the complainants accounts needed more active 
management during the COVID 19 pandemic, hence the switching activity. However, 
it was asked to provide information about the strategy it applied in this regard and it 
did not provide this, instead it referred to its complaint response letter.
The complainants have produced a series of messages from HE during the time of 
the switches which made no reference to the switching activities, but instead it 
represented that their investments were going well and said nothing about a need to 
make changes. 
The complainants should be compensated for the loss of value in their accounts 
(inclusive of redress for the switch fees that were applied) and, for the pension 
accounts, they should be paid into their pensions if possible. They should also be 
compensated for the establishment fee they incurred with their new adviser.
The investigator asked HE for its response to his view, but no such response appears to 
have been given. He then referred the case to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as expressed by the investigator, for 
broadly the same key reasons. I endorse and incorporate his reasons into this decision.
In straightforward terms, HE breached the terms of service it agreed with the complainants 
and the manner in which it did that also breached their trust and confidence. As the 
investigator said, there is no evidence of a discretionary element in the service agreed with 
the complainants. HE had no discretionary authority to execute investment decisions in the 
complainants accounts without their knowledge and consent/instruction to do so. In this 
context, by making the switches that feature in the complaint HE went significantly beyond 
its remit and it caused damage to the trust that the complainants had in it.
The regulatory definitions of churning include: 
Principle 6 (Customers interests) requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its
customers, and treat them fairly. A firm should therefore not churn a customers
account, that is, enter into transactions with unnecessary frequency having regard to the
customers agreed investment strategy. A firm should also not switch a private customer
within or between packaged products unnecessarily, having regard to what is suitable for
that customer. Firms are reminded that a customers interests are paramount.
A series of transactions that are each suitable when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency that is not in the 
best interests of the client.The general idea is that frequent transactions and/or switches, by a firm, in a clients portfolio 
should be reasoned and ought not to be carried out only or mainly for the purpose of 
generating commission for the firm. Instead, they should be carried out in the clients best 
interests.
In an advisory relationship the firms role is to give advice, the client retains the final decision 
on the subject of advice and no transaction happens unless the client agrees/approves. For 
this reason, whilst the potential for churning can nevertheless still exist in such relationships, 
the scope for it should arguably be less because of the clients involvement in the process. In 
contrast, the scope for churning could be more in a discretionary service context where a 
firm operates with discretion defined by a mandate agreed at the outset, and then thereafter 
the client is not actively involved in investment decisions. 
The complainants should have had the benefit of a service in which there was less scope for 
churning, the advisory service. This is the service that existed between them and HE, until 
HE appears to have unilaterally given itself discretionary authority during the period in which 
it made the switches without the complainants knowledge or consent. There also appears to 
be an element of misrepresentation during this period, whereby the investment switches 
were happening around the same time as HE was communicating with the complainants 
without mentioning them.
The unauthorised switches should never have happened. In addition, the manner of those 
switches supports the complainants allegation that the partner churned their accounts. HE 
does not appear to have a credible explanation for the strategy it applied, other than its 
somewhat generic claim that it sought to provide active management in the accounts. The 
number of switches conducted in the relevant six months illustrates active management but, 
firstly, it was unauthorised management and, secondly, the investment rationale behind it, if 
any existed, does not appear to have been explained, so it has not been established that 
they were made in the complainants best interests. Furthermore, and in the same context, 
the generation of almost £50,000 in switch fees for HE during this unauthorised and 
unexplained pursuit adds to the conclusion that it was not in the complainants best interests.
I share the investigators view on the matter of the switch fee agreement. In the absence of 
evidence of a discussion between both sides about it in 2020 or notice of its introduction at 
the time, on balance, I consider it inconceivable that the complainants would have agreed to 
it despite having no such fee in HEs service over the previous years. Aside from this, the 
primary findings remain that HE had no authority to conduct the switches without the 
complainants knowledge and consent/instruction, they were made without such knowledge 
and consent/instruction and they appear to have been made in order to churn their accounts 
(because they were numerous and frequent, they generated significant switch fees for HE 
but there is a lack of evidence that they were in the complainants best interests).
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I uphold the complainants complaint.
Putting things right
None of what HE did in this case should have been done, and because of its actions it 
committed a fundamental breach of the trust and confidence the complainants had in it. 
Following such breach, it was reasonable for them to terminate its service and to take their 
accounts to a new adviser. As such, an in addition to the effects of HEs actions on their 
accounts (at HE) there is also a direct causal link between those actions and the 
establishment cost they incurred with the new adviser.My aim in compensating the complainants is to try to put them as close as possible into the 
position they would likely have been in, but for HEs actions. For this purpose, I order HE to 
compensate them as follows:
The benchmark to be used for calculating redress is specific to the circumstances of 
this case. The complainants refer to how their accounts would have performed if they 
were left as they were prior to the partners unauthorised switches during the relevant 
period. I have not seen evidence to confirm that they sought changes to their 
pensions and investment portfolios at the time so I consider this to be a fair and 
natural benchmark. As such, HE must calculate, individually, what the complainants 
two pension accounts and one investment account would now be worth if they were 
left unchanged from what they were prior to the unauthorised switches that the 
partner began to make around July 2020. This means calculation of how each of the 
three accounts would have performed (and what each will now be worth) based on 
the contents they had at the time, without any of the unauthorised switches that 
subsequently happened, without deduction of any of the switch fees that were 
applied for those unauthorised switches and reflecting any income, distributions 
and/or dividends they would have been entitled to from the accounts. 
[Fair Value]
HE must then calculate the current value of each of the three accounts. In this 
respect, the complainants should share with HE any information that it reasonably 
requires in, and that is relevant to, its calculation of this.
[Actual Value]
If fair value is greater than actual value in the calculation for any or all the three 
accounts, the difference must be paid by HE to the complainants as compensation. 
[Redress]
HE must also pay the complainants the total amount of establishment fee that they 
incurred when they moved their accounts to their new adviser. As stated above, HEs 
actions caused them to move to their new adviser and to incur this fee. The 
complainants should share with HE information that it reasonably requires, and that 
is relevant to, its calculation of this compensation.
With regards to the complainants pensions accounts, HE should pay the redress into 
their respective pension plans, if possible, to increase their values by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payments should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into their 
pension plans if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation cannot be paid into their pension plans, HE must pay it directly to 
them. Had it been possible to pay it into their plans, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using their actual or expected marginal rate of tax at their selected 
retirement age. They say they are yet to take any tax-free cash from their plans, if so 
25% of the redress would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to 
their likely income tax rate in retirement. The complainants should share with HE 
information that it reasonably requires, and that is relevant to, its calculation of this.HE must provide the calculations of the compensation to the complainants in a clear 
and simple format. 
HE must pay interest on the total compensation to the complainants at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement if, due to no 
fault of the complainants, HE does not pay them the total compensation within 28 
days of being informed of their acceptance of this decision. This provision is to 
compensate them for late payment of the compensation.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mr L and Mrs L. I order Houghton 
Edwards LLP to pay them compensation as set out above and to provide them with 
calculations of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman