DRN-1497016
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy at how The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) dealt with a claim for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr B contacted TCG about a potential mis-sold PPI claim. He says that he 
only wanted TCG to do a free PPI check, and he had no intention of using them to make any 
claims. TCG made a mis-selling claim on Mr Bs behalf, and this was successful in April 
2019. So TCG invoiced Mr B for their success fees.
Mr B has complained that TCG have made a claim they werent instructed to make. So he 
doesnt think theyre entitled to charge a fee for the claim. TCG didnt agree so Mr B brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr B signed a Letter of Authority (LOA), authorising TCG to make 
a claim on his behalf, on 25 January 2019. And in signing this, Mr B agreed to TCGs terms 
and conditions, which included their right to charge a fee on any successful claims.
The investigator also said that TCG sent Mr B some PPI questionnaires to complete, and he 
completed these in a phone call on 1 April 2019. At which point TCG told Mr B they would be 
submitting claims on his behalf and that they would charge a fee for any successful claims.
Because of this, the investigator agreed that TCG had done the work Mr B had instructed 
them to do, and that they were entitled to charge their fees. Mr B didnt agree with the 
investigator. So this case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen a copy of the document Mr B signed on 25 January 2019, allowing TCG to do the 
Free PPI check for him. In signing this, Mr B agreed to the following statement:
I/We hereby appoint and expressly authorise The Claims Guys to undertake their 
Claims Services, which includes investigating, preparing, submitting and negotiating 
my/our Claim(s) for Compensation in respect of mis-sold PPI.
In signing this document, which the declaration referred to as an LOA, Mr B also agreed 
TCG terms and conditions printed on the reverse of the document. These terms and 
conditions said:
2. Claims Services
i) Free PPI Check Period
a. TCG will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI 
existed on any account(s) which You held with them, by making a DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified, this Agreement will come to an end, but this Agreement will 
continue on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
ii) Preparing and Submitting Your Claim(s)
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise TCG to 
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
The terms and conditions also included details of the fee TCG would charge, and Mr Bs 
right to cancel the agreement, including the right to cancel at no charge within 14 days. 
Im satisfied that the document signed by Mr B in January 2019 makes it clear that, unless 
he cancelled the agreement, once a free PPI check identified PPI had been sold then TCG 
were authorised to make the claim on his behalf. And this is what happened.
Mr B has said that it wasnt clear that this document wasnt an LOA. But it had LETTER OF 
AUTHORITY in bold capitals just above where Mr B signed. So Im happy is was clear. Mr B 
also said that he ignored any other documents TCG sent him. While this was his choice to 
do so, it doesnt mean that he wasnt bound by the terms he agreed to.
The cancellation terms were clear in that, if he wanted to cancel, Mr B needed to tell TCG in 
writing, by telephone or by email. So disengaging and not returning documents wasnt 
sufficient to let TCG know that Mr B didnt want them to make any claims on his behalf.
And TCG called Mr B on 1 April 2019. Ive listened to this call and TCG told Mr B of the 
outcome of the free PPI check. They asked Mr B for information theyd need to investigate, 
prepare and submit your claims, which Mr B provided. After hed provided this, TCG told 
him the next step sir is were now going to send your letter of complaint to your lender. So 
he was aware they were continuing the claims process for him. At no point did Mr B object to 
TCG acting for him, nor did he tell them that he intended on making the claims himself.
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that Mr B instructed TCG to act for him in 
making mis-sold PPI claims, and he was aware of what they were doing. So Im satisfied that 
TCG are entitled to charge their fee for the successful claim. And I wont be asking them to 
reduce or waive this fee.
Ive also noted that TCG put a payment plan in place, for Mr Bs outstanding fees, in January 
2020. And, as long as Mr B makes the agreed payments under this plan, then TCG have 
said they wont take any further action to recover their fees.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman