DRN-4259718
The complaint
Mr P complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to him and that the timeshare 
company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit provided by 
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb). Because of that, Mr P says that he has a claim 
against Honeycomb in the same way he has a claim against the timeshare company. 
The loan (and with it responsibility for this complaint) was transferred in August 2022 to Oplo 
PL Ltd (Oplo), but, for simplicity, I shall refer to the respondent as Honeycomb.  
Mr P has been represented by a claims management business, which Ill call F.
What happened
In 2016 and 2017 Mr P had bought from Azure Resorts Limited three timeshares at the 
Island Residence Club in Malta. They were traditional timeshares, where Mr P was given the 
use of an identified property for fixed weeks each year. 
In July 2018 Mr P bought a points based timeshare product from Azure XP Limited (Azure). 
He bought 18,500 points (referred to as XPs) at a cost of £20,000. XPs could be exchanged 
for holiday accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and 
driving experiences The purchase was financed with a 15-year £20,000 loan from 
Honeycomb. Mr Ps earlier purchases had been financed by a different lender. 
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In April 2021 F contacted Honeycomb on behalf of Mr P. F said that the XP points had been 
misrepresented to its client. He had been told when buying previous timeshare products that 
they were an investment, but in July 2018 he had been told they could not be sold after all. 
Mr P was told that he would have to buy XP points in order to sell his timeshares. They have 
not been sold.
F said too that, because they were in liquidation, the Azure companies could no longer 
provide the services sold. They were therefore in breach of contract. 
Further, F said, it was not disclosed to Mr P that a commission would be paid, no checks 
were carried out to ensure Mr P could afford the loan payments, and Mr P was pressured 
into buying the XP points on the day. The result was that the loan agreement created an 
unfair relationship between Mr P and Honeycomb.  
  Honeycomb did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary:
There was no evidence that the traditional timeshares or the XPs had been sold as an 
investment.  
Its records showed that Mr P had provided information about his income. He had made 
loan payments on time. 
There was no evidence that Mr P had sought to sell either the timeshares or the XPs. 
On the contrary, he had used the XPs in 2019 and 2020  in a way which suggested he 
understood how they worked.
F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought that Mr P had only bought the XPs because he had been given 
assurances that they could be sold. He recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Honeycomb did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It also forwarded a video recording of the compliance meeting which Mr P 
had had with a representative of Azure. It said that showed that Mr P had properly 
understood the product he was buying. 
I reviewed the complaint and, because I was minded to reach a different overall conclusion 
from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that provisional 
decision, I said:
As a general point, its important to note that Mr Ps complaint arises from the sale and 
purchase of XP points in July 2018, and it can be brought against Honeycomb because 
Honeycomb financed that transaction. 
Much of Mr Ps concern, however, appears to arise from what he says he was told 
previously about the possibility of selling the timeshares bought in 2016 and 2017, not about 
the agreement for the sale and purchase of XP points. Honeycomb did not finance those 
timeshare purchases. 
Also, my role is to determine Mr Ps complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the individual complaint. I wont therefore be 
commenting directly on Fs observations about the general operation of the Azure 
companies, although I have had regard to them. 
Affordability 
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that Honeycomb had not carried out 
any checks to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr Ps needs. 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. But I do not believe here that it is correct to say that 
no checks were carried out. Honeycombs submissions included details of Mr Ps earnings. 
Given that Mr P must have provided that information himself, it is surprising in my view that F 
said no checks had been made. Mr P answered a questionnaire prepared by F by confirming 
that his salary was what Honeycomb said it was and that he was not having difficulty making 
repayments. The video of the compliance meeting also records him confirming that he could 
comfortably afford the payments; he confirms too that, in saying that, he has taken the 
earlier timeshare loans into account. 
I am satisfied that Honeycomb did make appropriate checks before agreeing to the loan.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the XP points. The loan 
documents refer to three credit intermediaries  Business Brokers Limited; Vacation Finance 
Limited; and Freedom Finance. It appears that the seller was a different company, Azure 
XP Limited. Honeycomb has not suggested however that the necessary arrangements were 
not in place for sections 56 and 75 to apply, and I have therefore approached the case on 
the assumption that they were. It is of course open to the parties to make further 
submissions on this point, should they wish to do so. 
I must therefore consider what F has said about the alleged breach of contract and 
misrepresentations. 
Breach of contract
F says that the liquidation of Azure companies means that the services which Mr P bought 
cannot now be provided. In its letter of 27 April 2021 to Honeycomb, it said:
Azure are now in liquidation. They cannot provide the service sold. They are in breach of 
contract.   
The first of those statements was true, but it did not follow that there was a breach of 
contract. Azure XP Limited had founded the Azure Experiences Membership Club and had 
sold the XPs to Mr P. It had ownership of or access to properties which were to be used by 
members, but transferred those ownership and access rights to a different company, the 
sole shareholder in which was to be a trustee.   
On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
The services linked to Mr Ps purchase of XPs therefore remain available to him and are 
unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
F did not suggest that it would be a breach of contract for any company other than Azure to 
provide the membership services. If that is Mr Ps case, then I disagree. The contract is 
performed if the services are provided; they do not have to be provided by Azure companies. 
MisrepresentationA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
As I have said, much of what Mr P says he was told here concerns the possibility of selling 
his timeshares. But he says too that he was told the purchase of XPs would make that 
easier. I am afraid however that I am not persuaded he was told that. It is most unlikely that 
Azure would agree that the earlier timeshares had been mis-sold and that Mr P would seek 
to resolve that by making a further purchase from a closely linked company. 
In any event, the compliance video shows that, when Mr P was asked about his reason for 
buying XPs, he said that he thought it would give him greater flexibility. He did not mention 
the opportunity to sell either the timeshares or the XPs. I am not persuaded that the XPs 
were sold as an investment or that Mr P believed he was buying them on that basis.
I note as well that the contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold 
through Azure and once they had been held for five years. The resale programme was 
however opened in 2022 and, Honeycomb says, XPs have been sold for other customers. It 
says however that there is no evidence that Mr P has sought to sell his XPs.      
Mr P says that it is not possible to use all his XPs in the 30 years he has agreed to be a 
member. That is not my understanding, however. Section 3 of the Club Rules sets out the 
minimum number of XPs which must be used each year. For level 3 membership, which Mr 
P has, that is 400 points. 
If Mr P uses only the minimum number of points each year, it would take him just over 46 
years to use his allocation of 18,500 XPs. The Reservation Rules indicate however that 
members can accelerate the use of XPs  that is, they can use them early.
Indeed, that appears to be exactly what Mr P has done. He took two week holidays in peak 
season in 2019 and 2020, using around 700 XPs in each case. That indicates that he 
understood how to use the XPs and is consistent with his stated aim of obtaining flexibility. It 
is also consistent with the compliance meeting video, in which Mr P confirms that he 
understands minimum usage and points acceleration.    
Finally, I note that the sale agreement included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr P sought to rely was 
included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that he was misled, but, if I 
were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of that provision. 
Other matters
F says that Mr P was not given a choice of lenders. I have however seen Azures Initial 
Disclosure Document, which explains that Honeycomb is its preferred lender. But there is 
nothing to suggest that Mr P could not have selected his own lender (although doing so 
would have lost him some of the protections under the Consumer Credit Act). 
F says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr P. There is 
however no suggestion that it was important to him, or that it would have made any 
difference to his decision to purchase. Honeycomb says that no commission was paid. In any event, Azure wasnt acting as an agent of Mr P, but as the supplier of XP points. It 
also introduced Honeycomb as a preferred lender, if Mr P wanted to take out a loan. But it 
does not appear to me that it was Azures role to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation or to give Mr P advice or information on that basis. 
I do not believe either that Mr P was pressured into the purchase of XPs. As an existing 
timeshare owner, he would have been familiar with the sales process and would have known 
that he did not have to buy. The compliance video shows Azures representative reminding 
him of his right to change his mind and inviting him to peruse the documents at his leisure. 
He also invites Mr P to contact him if he has any questions when he returns home. 
It is not for me to decide whether Mr P has a claim against Azure, or whether he might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ps 
complaint. That could include requiring Honeycomb to write off all or part of the loan, to 
accept different repayments, or to change the interest rate.  In the circumstances of this 
case, however, I think that Honeycombs response to Mr Ps claims was fair and reasonable.    
Oplo had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. F said that Mr P had further 
evidence to submit and sought additional time in which to respond. It did not however send 
any further evidence relating specifically to Mr Ps experience. Rather, it provided extracts 
from (i) an investigators preliminary assessment of a different case involving Azure and (ii) 
the recent judicial review of two decisions of the Financial Ombudsman Service relating to 
timeshare sales (reported at [2023] EWHC 1069).    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully the further submissions made on behalf of Mr P. F did not 
explain how the preliminary assessment and the judicial review case from which it provided 
extracts related to Mr Ps case. I accept of course that they are relevant  at least in the 
sense that they concern the financing of timeshare transactions and that similar legal and 
regulatory considerations apply  but they are not directly supportive of Mr Ps case. 
I must of course consider and determine each complaint on its individual merits, and that is 
what I have done in this case. 
One of the main elements of Mr Ps complaint was that he says he was told that the 
timeshare product he bought in 2018 would be an investment. But there is video evidence 
showing that, when he was asked about his reason for buying, he did not mention that. 
Rather, he was seeking greater flexibility  which he achieved. 
For these reasons, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision.     My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and I do not require Oplo PL Ltd to 
do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman