DRN-1316239
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his payment for £50,000.
What happened
Mr V says he tried to buy £50,000 of premium bonds on 31 May 2019 with his debit card. He 
says Santander blocked the transaction that meant he missed out on the July 2019 prize 
draw as the bonds needed to be bought on that day. Mr V would like Santander to pay him 
compensation.
Santander says it has not made a mistake and acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions by blocking a transaction where it had security concerns. It also says it told Mr V 
to consider alternative ways of paying rather than a debit card. Santander says that Mr V 
didn't buy the premium bonds but invested his money in a different type of bond the next 
day.
Mr V brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought it unlikely the transaction would have been completed that day to allow the bonds to 
be part of the July 2019 draw as it may have taken up to two days. And the time of the 
attempted transaction was 16.44. The investigator also thought it appeared Mr V had 
changed his mind about the type of bond he wanted in any event.
Mr V doesn't accept that view and says he was told the transaction would be completed on 
31 May 2019 and says this was his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Santander hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Mr V will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I accept this was Mr V's money, and he is able to spent it as he wishes. But I also accept 
that banks and building societies have a duty to protect its money and its customers money 
from the ever increasing risk of fraud. I appreciate that, as in this case, legitimate 
transactions can be blocked which causes customers inconvenience but that doesn't mean a 
business is at fault for taking such steps.
I'm satisfied that is what took place here that Mr V's attempted transaction for a large amount 
of money using his debit card led to it being blocked. I'm satisfied that Santander's account 
terms and conditions make clear that it has the right to block transactions where it has 
security concerns. So I don't think Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking 
this transaction and by advising Mr V to consider other ways of paying for the bonds.
Overall for the reasons I have explained I can't fairly order Santander pay compensation in 
these circumstances. I also agree with the investigator that there would have been no guarantee Mr V could have completed the transaction on 31 May 2019 in any event as it 
may have taken up to two days to complete. And I can see that Mr V decided to invest his 
money in a different product the following day.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman