DRN-3665728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain through their professional representative, (PR), that Vacation 
Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions (VFL) didnt fairly or reasonably deal 
with their claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) 
in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in October 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had owned a number of holiday products supplied by a company I will call A. 
They apparently were happy with these and were used to being asked to buy other products 
and generally refused. In 2017 they were persuaded to purchase a new product at a cost of 
£79,909 which was funded in part with a loan from VFL. I gather this was for a new 
apartment which was to be completed and they say they were told it would be a good 
investment.  
In March 2021 PR submitted a letter of claim to VFL. In summary it said that Mr and Mrs B 
held highly desirable products with A and were pressurised to make an additional purchase. 
It claimed they were told there was a special price on the day. It said there was no second-
hand market for the product. No choice was given as to a lender and A contravened the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, SI 
2010/2960. It also said Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT) 2008 had been broken by A. PR 
claimed that VFL had not disclosed the commission paid to A.
VFL rejected the claim. It denied Mr and Mrs B had been pressured to make the purchase 
and that they had been told it was a special price on the day. They were not required to take 
finance from VFL and they repaid the loan without making any monthly payments and at a 
discount. It explained that that following the liquidation of A the holiday product was being 
run by a replacement company and as such there had been no breach of contract. Finally it 
said no commission had been paid. 
PR brought a complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She said s.75 was not relevant as the purchase price was in 
excess of the financial limits for a claim. She also took the view that there wasnt a 
substantive allegation that there was an unfair relationship. 
PR didnt agree and said the Timeshare Regulations had been breached and so that created 
an unfair relationship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I would add that many of the arguments put forward are not 
relevant to the purchase made in 2017. 
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr and Mrs B) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (VFL) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that s.75 states that it does not apply to a claim
(a)under a non-commercial agreement,
(b)so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
The cash price exceeds £30,000 and this means that Mr and Mrs B do not have a claim 
under s.75. I have also considered s.75A which covers purchases up to £60,260, but this too 
does not assist Mr and Mrs B.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. I have seen no evidence that they found the loan unaffordable. 
Indeed it was repaid almost immediately. When considering a complaint about unaffordable 
lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any 
failings on the part of the lender. So, if VFL did not do appropriate checks (and I make no 
such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see 
that Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of its failings. Mr and Mrs B have provided no evidence 
whatsoever that they would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not 
need to consider this point further.
S. 140A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr and Mrs B and 
VFL were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if 
it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against VFL anyway.
Their alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to them personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that VFL assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
Nor can I say that they were given insufficient information in order to reach an informed 
decision.  I believe they were given details of the product and they were used to the sales 
process of A. They had made a number of purchases before and had used the 14-day cool 
off period on one previous occasion. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B are dissatisfied with their 
purchase and they have my sympathies for this, but, in summary I cannot see why any of 
their claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I think that VFL acted reasonably in 
declining the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA.
As such I can see no basis for a successful claim under s.140A. Nor do I think the alleged 
pressure to which PR says Mr and Mrs B had been subjected at the time of the sale would 
allow me to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman