DRN-3303457
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bamboo Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr R was given a single loan by Bamboo in August 2017. He borrowed £3,000 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. Mr R faced some problems 
repaying the loan  he told Bamboo at the time that his financial circumstances had 
changed  and the loan was passed to a third-party debt collection company. But the 
loan was settled by Mr R in February 2020.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr R before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Rs expenditure. And it checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had 
managed credit in the past.
Mr R was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that 
Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mr Rs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that 
Bamboos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of Bamboos checks to see whether 
it made a fair lending decision.
Mr R told Bamboo that he was earning £3,350 each month. Bamboo verified that 
income through a credit checking service. He said that he was spending £250 on his 
rent and, using some industry statistical data, Bamboo estimated the rest of Mr Rs 
normal living costs to be just under £500. I dont think there was any reason for 
Bamboo to consider that Mr Rs other expenditure was likely to be greater than the 
statistical norms. And the results of the credit check suggested that Mr R was paying 
around £50 each month to service his other debts.
 
So based on the information Mr R supplied, and the results of its checks, Bamboo 
concluded that Mr R would have over £2,000 left over each month after making his 
repayments on the new loan. That would seem to reasonably indicate that the loan 
was affordable for him.
Our investigator thought that level of disposable income should have led to some 
questions about why Mr R was taking an expensive loan that had a value of less than 
two months disposable income. And I agree that would be a reasonable 
consideration. But I think it is important to consider that the checks Bamboo did were 
not designed to detail Mr Rs finances to a minuscule level. Instead I think those 
checks might reasonably expect that Mr R might have some additional discretionary 
expenditure each month that ate into the surplus that had been assessed. It would be 
reasonable to conclude that the disposable income available to Mr R might be less 
than the assessment suggested. But the level of disposable income was so great that 
I think Bamboo could have some confidence that Mr R would remain able to afford 
the loan even if his discretionary spending was higher than its estimates.
The credit check results showed that Mr R had faced some problems managing his 
money around three years earlier. At that time three of his credit accounts had been 
defaulted. Two of the defaults had been satisfied, but one remained outstanding. 
That was a credit card account with an outstanding balance of almost £2,000. No 
payments appeared to have been made to that account for some considerable time.
It is true that experience often shows that consumers who face problems managing 
their money, sometimes face similar problems in the future. But Mr Rs problems 
were many years before. And Im not persuaded that the outstanding balance on the 
credit card account was indicative of someone who couldnt pay  I think it at least as 
likely that it represented someone who had chosen not to pay. So considering the 
lack of more recent problems I dont think that default should have caused any great 
concerns to the lender.
Otherwise Mr R was making very little other use of credit. He had an overdraft on his 
bank account that was unused at the time of his loan application. And his credit card 
had been managed well over the previous months, with a fluctuating balance and 
repayments that were generally far larger than the minimum payments required. So 
I think it was reasonable for Bamboo to consider the results of the credit check as 
representing a consumer in a secure financial position.
So I dont think there was anything in the results of the checks that Bamboo 
performed  checks that I consider to be proportionate  that should have led the 
lender to dig deeper into Mr Rs finances. I can see from Mr Rs bank statements that 
further checks would have identified what appears to be significant spending on 
online gambling transactions. But that spending wasnt something he told Bamboo 
about when he applied for the loan. Nor was it something that I think should have 
been identified from the results of the proportionate checks. I dont think it would 
have been proportionate for Bamboo to examine Mr Rs bank statements before it 
agreed the loan.
So I currently think it was reasonable for Bamboo to give this loan to Mr R. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for him. But I think that the lender 
was entitled to rely on the information he provided about his finances, and the results 
of its checks. And those suggested that the loan would be sustainably affordable. So 
I dont currently think the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Bamboo hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr R has made some additional comments. Although I am only summarising here what Mr R has said, I want to 
reassure him that I have read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr R is disappointed that I have reached a different conclusion to our investigator. He says 
that the credit check information Bamboo used was out of date. And he says the lender 
failed to ask him for proof of his earnings or the affordability of the loan. He thinks Bamboo 
should have looked deeper into his finances before approving the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said in response to my provisional decision. Im 
sorry to tell him that his comments havent changed my decision on his complaint. But 
I would like to provide some further commentary on the points that he has raised.
The credit check that Bamboo performed was carried out on the same day that Mr R signed 
the credit agreement for the loan. Whilst I entirely accept, as Mr R alleges, that some of the 
information on the check might not have been up to date, I cannot hold Bamboo responsible 
for that. It obtained the most up to date information that was available.
And Bamboo verified what Mr R said about his income through a third-party checking 
service. Given the check validated what Mr R had said, I think that was a proportionate 
measure  I dont think Bamboo needed to ask Mr R to supply copies of his pay slips. But in 
any case I can see from Mr Rs bank statements that, although his salary did vary each 
month, the income he received in the week before the loan was well in excess of what hed 
declared to the lender.
As I said in my provisional decision I think that Bamboos checks were proportionate. I think 
that the lender was entitled to rely on the information Mr R provided about his finances, and 
the results of its checks. Since those suggested that the loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr R I dont think it was wrong to give the loan to him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman