DRN-2522096
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) failed to carry out his online 
instructions to open an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr K says he completed an online application in July 2018 for a cash ISA with Wesleyan 
transferring it from another provider. Mr K says 12 months later he was looking to transfer 
this ISA to get a better interest rate and discovered the ISA with Wesleyan had never been 
opened. On querying this with Wesleyan they confirmed the application hadnt been 
completed. Mr K says whilst he had received an email from Wesleyan shortly after his online 
application, he thought it might have been suspicious so ignored it. Mr K says he is 
concerned Wesleyan never contacted him to tell him they needed more information from 
him, so assumed the ISA had been opened. Mr K wants Wesleyan to make up the difference 
in the interest he would have earned on the ISA with Wesleyan, compared to the interest 
rate he actually earned on his existing ISA. 
Wesleyan says they contacted Mr K by way of email, which was his chosen method of 
communication, asking for further documentation to be completed before opening the ISA. 
Wesleyan says given the volume of applications they receive, they werent able to contact 
Mr K by telephone, to see if he still wished to proceed with the ISA application. Wesleyan did 
look to see if there was a way to back date the application but that wasnt possible due 
HMRC rules governing ISAs. Wesleyan didnt feel they had done anything wrong here. 
 Mr K wasnt happy with Wesleyans response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
She felt Wesleyan had taken reasonable steps to advise Mr K, by email, that further 
documentation was needed to complete the ISA application and transfer the balance from 
the existing provider. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
 
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr K to have thought he had transferred his ISA to 
Wesleyan after completing the application online, only to find a year later this hadnt 
happened.
When looking at this complaint, I have considered if Wesleyan acted reasonably when taking 
the actions they did, following Mr Ks online application for an ISA with them.
 
What happened here was Mr K completed an online application for a cash ISA with 
Wesleyan, transferring the balance he held with an existing provider.12 months later when 
reviewing his options, Mr K discovered the transfer from his old ISA provider to Wesleyan 
hadnt happened. Mr K says when he completed the application online for the ISA, he had 
seen a notification his application was now underway. Mr K says while he did receive an 
email from Wesleyan, he ignored it as it was from a different email address which looked 
suspicious. Mr K says if further documentation was needed then Wesleyan had the 
opportunity to contact him by phone and these details had been provided to them to do that. 
Mr K has made the point this was a reasonable sum of money and he wouldnt have 
completed the application if he didnt intend to go through with it.
 
Wesleyan have said they sent a second email to Mr K asking for further documentation and 
couldnt contact all ISA applicants given the volume of applications they receive, and it 
wasnt unusual for customers to withdraw ISA applications. They also say in any event Mr K 
had given instructions not to contact him by phone, albeit Mr K disputes this, saying this was 
for marketing purposes only. Wesleyan say they did attempt to see if there was any way they 
could accept a backdated application from Mr K but HMRC rules prevent this. Wesleyan 
says they correctly carried out their processes and did nothing wrong and were unable to 
support Mr Ks complaint.  
I have considered what both parties have said here, and I have seen various documents as 
evidence to support their version of events. Mr K says he was of the view his application was 
being processed and had no reason to believe otherwise having seen a notification stating 
his application was underway. While Mr K cant provide details of this notification now, even 
if that is what he saw thats not the same as saying the application was completed. While Mr 
K may not agree, the application is the first stage of opening an ISA and not necessarily an 
agreement by Wesleyan the application had been accepted and opened. 
What is important here is Wesleyan sent Mr K an email a few days after his online 
application requesting the completion of an ISA Transfer Form to sign and return to them, to 
support his application. Mr K says he ignored the second email as it was from a different 
email address and he had concerns it wasnt legitimate. While I understand the point Mr K 
raises, I cant agree that he couldnt have taken the opportunity to check with Wesleyan the 
validity of this. This email was important as it contained a transfer authority form that needed 
signing to complete the process. Although Mr K chose to ignore that email for the reasons he 
has given, I cant hold Wesleyan responsible for that, as the email was genuine, even if Mr K 
believed it may not have been. 
As Mr K has suggested the amount of the ISA wasnt insignificant so I would have 
reasonably expected Mr K to have queried why he hadnt received any formal confirmation 
from Wesleyan the new ISA had been opened, or heard from his previous provider his old 
ISA had been closed.
Mr K has queried why Wesleyan failed to let him know by telephone, that he needed to 
complete more documentation for the ISA application. Having looked at the application form 
I am satisfied Mr K has stated his contact preference is by email only and has signed an 
annotation to that effect. This included a note that emails should only be in reference to the 
ISA, which is what happened here. Mr K also states on the application form he doesnt want 
any marketing information, but I am satisfied this isnt saying he also wants to be contacted 
by telephone, as he has declared he doesnt want that form of contact by Wesleyan. That 
aside, I am satisfied, while Mr K may not agree, Wesleyan shouldnt be reasonably expected to contact all applicants who havent fully completed their applications given the volumes of 
applications they process for ISAs.
Wesleyan did look into whether they could backdate Mr Ks ISA application, but I am 
satisfied this isnt something they were obliged to consider, but more of a case they were 
attempting to help Mr K and not as he suggests, an admission from them they had made any 
mistake here. 
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Wesleyan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman