DRN-3219474
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as C, complains about the actions of QBE UK Limited 
when handling and settling the business interruption insurance claim it made as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the facts of the complaint, so this is intended merely as a brief 
summary. Additionally, whilst numerous other parties were involved, I have largely just 
referred to C and QBE for the sake of simplicity. 
C operates as a technology company, offering website design and similar services. It 
operated out of an office. And held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by QBE. C 
has said that, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was unable to use its offices and 
incurred additional costs. So, it contacted QBE to claim for these costs in May 2020. 
QBE declined the claim that month, saying that the cause of the claim was not something 
that was covered by the policy. C complained about this decision. QBE then advised C that 
there was a test case being brought by the Financial Conduct Authority, which was intended 
to resolve issues of liability in relation to COVID-19 related business interruption claims. And 
so it was not going to respond to the complaint until after this test case had concluded. 
Following the conclusion of the test case in January 2021, QBE reconsidered Cs claim and 
agreed that it was covered by the policy. After an exchange of correspondence, a settlement 
figure of £12,000 was agreed. 
C remained unhappy with this though. And was also unhappy with the handling of the claim 
and complaint generally. Its points included that it was unable to liaise directly with QBE, but 
rather had to deal with a loss adjuster, and that recordings of telephone calls were not made. 
C also had other issues relating to the level of cover provided by the policy. C brought its 
complaint to our service.
Our Investigator partially upheld Cs complaint. He did not think the handling of claim had 
been that bad, as QBE had kept C informed of what was happening throughout. He also felt 
that the lack of telephone recording capabilities was understandable given the change in 
working practices necessitated by the pandemic. Our Investigator was also satisfied the 
settlement offer was generally fair and reasonable, but that QBE should have added interest 
to the sum paid. And that it should pay C compensation for the delay in paying this interest.
The Investigator also confirmed that QBE was not responsible for the sale of the policy and 
that if C had any concerns about this, it would need to speak to its broker. 
C remained unsatisfied with the majority of the issues. And QBE also did not think it was 
appropriate to add interest to the settlement. 
QBE argued that the Investigator had concluded that it was not inappropriate to have waited 
for the conclusion of the test case, but that he had then said interest should be awarded for 
this period. QBE argued that the test case had changed the law and that the decisions it took 
were in line with the law at the time of those decisions. And that the FCA guidance around 
the test case indicated it was reasonable for QBE to wait for the conclusion of the test case. 
As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of the submissions made. But I am not going to address each individual 
complaint point within this decision. Rather I am going to focus on what I consider to be the 
key issues.
It is clear that the COVID-19 had a significant impact on many businesses, including C. 
However, in order to assess whether or not Cs claim was settled fairly, it is necessary to 
consider the policy that it held. Different business interruption policies provide different 
cover.
Cs policy provided cover for increased cost of working as a result of certain causes. The 
cost insured was:
any reasonable additional expenses incurred in maintaining the gross revenue 
during the indemnity period but not more than the loss avoided under a)i) less any 
amount saved during the indemnity period in respect of reduced expenses due to the 
damage
And one of the causes insured was for the impact of the occurrence of certain diseases 
within 25 miles of the insured premises. The cover provided in relation to this cause was 
capped by the following:
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the 
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter during 
which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the damage.
As such, where a business incurred additional expenses to maintain its income during this 
three-month period, that would otherwise have been reduced as a result of COVID-19 
having occurred, it was able to claim for these additional expenses. 
As the policy was sold by a third-party broker, any concerns C has with the arrangements or 
sale of the policy will need to be taken up with them. 
It isnt entirely clear that all of the additional expenses C has claimed for were incurred 
during the three-month period. C has indicated though that, had QBE confirmed the policy 
provided cover when it first made its claim, these costs would have been incurred. And it 
seems QBE has taken a pragmatic stance when considering these costs. 
Ultimately, QBE has agreed to pay a contribution for the majority of the costs claimed. It has 
not agreed to cover the fixed costs C would always have had  such as its rent and energy 
costs. I consider this is reasonable though, as these were not additional costs C incurred. 
They were costs that C would have always faced.
Additionally, it seems C moved to new premises after the indemnity period  but the cost of 
this was not something incurred to maintain income during the indemnity period. So, it is reasonable that QBE did not cover this cost.
QBE has also explained why only a proportion of the covered costs incurred have been met. 
Put simply, this is because many of the items purchased had a lifespan that extended 
beyond the indemnity period. So, either they should be sold and the money passed onto 
QBE, or the settlement be reduced to take into account the ongoing benefit to C. Again, I 
consider this is reasonable. It is the maintenance of revenue during the indemnity period that 
is covered by the policy, so any benefit that is provided beyond this period is not covered 
and should act to reduce the settlement. 
I can see that QBE, through its loss adjuster, had a negotiation with C over the amount 
payable and the level of reductions applicable to certain costs. It seems this was conducted 
openly and gave C the ability to negotiate and increase to the initial offer. 
I should stress that the maximum payable amount under any policy does not mean a 
claimant will receive this amount for a claim. The claim will be settled in accordance with the 
policy terms. But will also generally be subject to the overarching principle of indemnity  a 
claimant can only claim the amount of insured loss. 
I appreciate that C may have suffered a loss of income as a result of the pandemic, but this 
is not what its policy provided cover for. Cover was for the increased costs of working that 
were incurred to try and maintain income.
I do note that QBE used a loss adjuster to liaise with C. C has said that it would have 
preferred to speak with QBE directly. However, the use of a loss adjuster is common in 
insurance claims and I do not think this was unreasonable. Additionally, it seems the loss 
adjuster communicated appropriately with C, so I am unable to agree the use of a loss 
adjuster caused C any detriment in relation the outcome of the claim. 
I can appreciate that C was unhappy that its telephone conversations were not being 
recorded. However, the change in working arrangements that the COVID-19 pandemic led to 
in 2020 meant that many organisations were unable to record calls. Employees were 
working from home and did not always have this facility. So, given the circumstances it 
faced, I dont think QBE acted inappropriately by not providing this facility. Additionally, it 
does not seem that the lack of recordings actually led to the claim or complaint being 
handled inappropriately. QBE and its agents were able to summarise calls in writing where 
this was requested by C. And it does not appear there is significant dispute about the 
content of those calls. 
It did take a significant period of time for the claim to be settled. However, I agree that QBE 
did provide C with suitable updates and information about what was happening and why. 
And, generally speaking, waiting for the conclusion of the test case was reasonable. 
However, this does not mean that QBE does not need to take into account the fact it 
provided, what was ultimately shown to be, an incorrect claim decision in May 2020. 
The result of the test case was that QBE confirmed Cs policy did provide cover in the 
circumstances. And this means the decision it reached in May 2020 was wrong. So ,QBE 
had the benefit of money that ought to have been paid to C at that time. As C has been 
without this money, I believe that it is fair and reasonable to add interest to the settlement to 
compensate it for this loss. Additionally, I consider that by not paying C this interest when it 
was due, QBE has caused C avoidable inconvenience. Ive noted QBEs point regarding the FCA guidance, but I am unaware of any guidance from 
the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a valid claim in 
circumstances such as this.
Putting things right
QBE UK Limited should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum to the settlement 
offered in relation to the claim. This interest should run from May 2020 to the date of 
settlement. QBE should also pay C £100 to compensate it for not paying this interest at the 
time the claim was settled. 
My final decision
My final decision is to partly uphold this complaint. QBE UK Limited should put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman