DRN-3558876
The complaint
Mr R and Mr A, as executors of the estate of Mrs W, have complained about investment 
advice given to the late Mrs W by Dunhams Financial Planning Limited (Dunhams) which 
they say has led to an increased inheritance tax (IHT) liability for the estate.
What happened
In 1999, Dunhams advised the late Mr and Mrs W to invest £100,000 into a Wealth 
Preservation Bond (now known as the Inheritance Bond) and place this into a Discounted 
Gift Trust (DGT) as a means of reducing their IHT liability.
In 2014, following the passing of Mr W, Mrs W approached Dunhams to determine her IHT 
liabilities and propose ways of mitigating them. Mr R and Mr A (Mrs Ws sons) were also 
present at these meetings.
In 2015 Dunhams gave recommendations as to how Mrs W could mitigate her IHT liability as 
well as advice on income and capital gains tax. As part of this advice, Dunhams told Mrs W 
that the funds held in the Inheritance Bond fell completely outside of her estate, as the 
money had been gifted over seven years previously. The recommendations, which included 
gifts to Mr R and Mr A of £75,000 each, were implemented in December 2015.
Mrs W sadly passed away in May 2019. Mr R and Mr A, as executors of the estate, engaged 
solicitors to wind up the estate. Dunhams was asked to provide information relating to the 
late Mrs Ws investments to assist with this. However, after filing the estate paperwork with 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), it was discovered that the estate would need to pay IHT 
on part of the Inheritance Bond  this was because the endowment element of the bond, 
valued at around £125,000, was always part of the late Mrs Ws estate. As a result, the 
estate incurred an unexpected IHT bill of £40,233.71. The executors were also required to 
resubmit paperwork to HMRC, incurring extra solicitor costs of £1,046.
Mr R and Mr A complained to Dunhams about the advice Mrs W had received in 2015. They 
said that if Mrs W had been properly advised, they wouldve taken action to mitigate the 
extra IHT exposure. Instead, they were led to believe there was no IHT liability whatsoever. 
Mr R and Mr A also complained about advice that they had received in 2019 as trustees of 
the DGT that held the Inheritance Bond. They said this advice was incorrect (given the issue 
with the estate having to pay IHT on part of the bond) and didnt think they should have to 
pay the associated advice fee. This part of the complaint is being dealt with under a separate 
complaint reference in Mr R and Mr As capacity as trustees of the bond, so Ill make no 
further reference to it here.
Dunhams accepted that it had misinformed the late Mrs W about the IHT implications of the 
Inheritance Bond. But it believed this was due to incomplete information having been 
provided by Mr R and Mr A in relation to Mrs Ws assets. It said it wasnt aware of the 
endowment part of the Inheritance Bond, which at the time of the advice, was worth 
£100,000. Nevertheless, Dunhams said if it had understood that the endowment part of the 
bond formed part of Mrs Ws estate it wouldve advised Mrs W to increase the cash gifts it 
recommended she make to Mr R and Mr A. But as Mrs W sadly didnt survive for seven 
years after making the gifts, Dunhams said IHT wouldve always been payable on this extra 
sum. Dunhams offered to make the necessary amendments to the forms submitted to 
HMRC without charge.
Mr R and Mr A didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our Service. They maintained 
the extra IHT liability couldve been mitigated over the years with careful financial planning. 
The Investigator upheld the complaint in part. He thought Dunhams ought to have known 
about the endowment part of the Inheritance bond and how it impacted Mrs Ws estate given 
it had sold the bond to Mrs W and it was giving advice on her overall IHT exposure. 
However, he wasnt persuaded that the extra IHT liability couldve been mitigated. He 
thought it was most likely that Dunhams wouldve advised Mrs W to make larger gifts to Mr R 
and Mr A, which he thought wouldve been a suitable recommendation. And as Mrs W hadnt 
survived for seven years after the gifts were made, he also thought the additional liability 
couldnt have been avoided.
The investigator recommended that Dunhams should cover the additional solicitors fees and 
pay the estate £250 to compensate it for the inconvenience caused by the delay in fully 
winding up the estate.
Dunhams accepted this but Mr R and Mr A did not. They said that if they had known about 
the additional £100,000 in 2015 they would have spent more money maintaining Mrs Ws 
house and garden and couldve used the funds to pay for a more expensive nursing home. 
Mr R and Mr A also said that they couldve allocated more funds to pensions or invested 
some funds in the alternative investment market (AIM), which attracted IHT relief after two 
years. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said that with hindsight it was 
possible to identify alternative strategies to mitigate IHT, but he still thought Dunhams 
wouldve most likely recommended increased gifts and this wasnt unsuitable. The 
investigator added that he didnt think it would have been suitable for Mrs W to invest in AIM 
shares because she had a cautious attitude to risk so this wouldve been too high risk for 
her. He also said that any funds used to improve the property would also possibly increase 
the property value, so he wasnt persuaded that this wouldve enabled Mrs W to reduce her 
IHT liability. The investigator said Mrs W was noted to have income and assets far in excess 
of her needs at the time, but despite this she didnt accept Dunhams recommendation to gift 
£100,000 each to Mr R and Mr A, instead reducing this to £75,000 each. This was because 
Mrs W wanted to ensure she had sufficient capital to meet future needs such as long-term 
care.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Dunhams, and Mr R and Mr A, have provided a large amount of information with this 
complaint. I want to make it clear Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is most relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.It's evident that Dunhams made a mistake when it assessed Mrs Ws IHT liability in 2015  
I agree that it ought to have known that the endowment part of the bond would always form 
part of Mrs Ws estate. That issue isnt in dispute anymore, as Dunhams accepted the 
investigators findings on this. What remains in dispute, however, is how that erroneous 
assessment affected the estate of Mrs Ws IHT liability.
Mr R and Mr A say that the estate wouldve been able to reduce the IHT exposure to nil if it 
had known that there was an additional £100,000 that fell into Mrs Ws estate in 2015. They 
say that if Dunhams had assessed the situation correctly, it ought to have advised Mrs W to 
do as follows:
Invest a proportion of the funds in AIM shares; and
Direct extra income into pensions for Mr R and Mr A and her grandchildren.
They also said they wouldve spent more money on the maintenance of Mrs Ws home and 
garden and allocated more funds to Mrs Ws nursing home.
Ive considered all of this carefully, but Im not persuaded that the estate wouldve been in a 
different position but for the mistake made by Dunhams. Im in broad agreement with the 
investigators view that on balance the estate was always likely to pay the sum it ended up 
paying as IHT.
I think its important to note that there are a number of ways to mitigate IHT. And with the 
benefit of hindsight, some strategies may appear more suitable than others. But Dunhams 
role wasnt to identify the most suitable way of mitigating IHT  it was required to make a 
suitable recommendation, taking into account Mrs Ws circumstances, objectives and 
attitude to risk. Ive borne this in mind when determining what wouldve most likely happened 
had all aspects of Dunhams advice been correct.
It is clear to me that Mrs Ws income in 2015, around £80,000, far exceeded her outgoings. 
And her assets at the time meant she had an IHT liability of around £100,000. And as such, 
in March 2015 Dunhams recommended a range of measures to mitigate this. It noted that 
because Mrs Ws income exceeded her expenditure this was only likely to increase her IHT 
liability over the coming years. So, Dunhams recommended that she make use of the 
exemptions afforded to making annual gifts of £3,000, as well as gifts from income in the 
form of pension contributions for her children and grandchildren (£3,600 gross each). 
Dunhams also recommended that Mrs W make lifetime gifts of £100,000 each to Mr R and 
Mr A.
The August 2015 report noted the recommendations Mrs W had agreed to take forward after 
discussions between her, Mr R and Mr A. This included the annual gifts of £3,000 and gifts 
from income into personal pensions, but instead of making lifetime gifts of £100,000 each to 
Mr R and Mr A, she agreed to gifts of £75,000 each. It was noted in the report that this was 
because even though gifting the higher sums was affordable, it was noted that she might feel 
uncomfortable gifting more and preferred peace of mind knowing she had sufficient capital 
for life. So, it seems to me that Mrs W agreed to the recommendations on the basis that she 
wasnt comfortable allocating further funds elsewhere in case her needs changed in future.
Bearing in mind the recommendations Dunhams made, if it had known about the additional 
£100,000 attached to the Inheritance Bond that remained part of the estate, I think it 
wouldve initially recommended gifts of £150,000 each to Mr R and Mr A. And I dont think 
that wouldve been an unsuitable recommendation in the circumstances. I say this because 
I think Dunhams had already explored the other options available to Mrs W (such as gifts 
from income and annual gifts within the exempt limits) and Mrs W had decided on what she was comfortable giving away from her income. And to have the desired effect of reducing the 
IHT bill significantly (as the extra capital in the Inheritance Bond increased the IHT liability by 
around £40,000) I think Dunhams most likely wouldve recommended increased gifts to 
Mrs Ws sons.
Given that Mrs W decided to instead gift a total of £150,000 to Mr R and Mr A, not the 
£200,000 initially recommended, it seems to me that the most she wouldve likely gifted 
(even if shed known about the extra £100,000) was £250,000 in total. As Mrs W passed 
away within seven years of making the gifts and the gifted sums in the seven years prior to 
her death didnt exceed the nil rate band, the gifts didnt attract IHT and so no taper relief 
wouldve been available to her. So, on balance, I think that the estate wouldve always had 
to pay the IHT bill it received.
Ive considered Mr R and Mr As point about the possibility of investing in AIM shares, which 
attracted business relief and wouldve therefore escaped IHT after two years. But I dont 
think this wouldve been suitable for Mrs W. AIM shares are by their nature higher risk 
investments  the companies involved are younger, smaller and untested, the shares arent 
easily tradable and there are significant liquidity risks. Dunhams assessed Mrs Ws risk 
appetite as cautious, which based on what Ive seen appears to be reasonable. So, I dont 
think that investing in AIM shares wouldve been suitable for Mrs W in any proportion.
Mr W says if theyd known about the extra money in the estate they wouldve spent more 
money on maintaining Mrs Ws home and garden and allocated more funds to Mrs Ws 
nursing home costs. The investigator advised that any significant maintenance or 
improvement was likely to increase the property value, so he didnt think it was likely that this 
would lead to an IHT saving. He added that Mrs W had income far in excess of her 
outgoings, so the money was always there to put towards a more expensive care home. The 
investigator thought it was difficult to argue now that Mr R and Mr A wouldve allocated extra 
funds to Mrs Ws care home when they didnt at the time.
Mr R and Mr A said they doubted regular professional grounds maintenance or general 
pruning and cutting the grass of a large garden or improving / repairing the house, 
decoration and heating would have much if any relevance to the valuation of the property. 
They said they werent talking about structural change/capital expenditure such as 
extensions. Mr R and Mr A also said it was known in 2015 that there was an excess of 
income over expenditure and this was closely monitored and managed over the years and in 
conjunction with Dunhams to maintain a level of cashflow. The nursing home costs were 
incurred in line with that close monitoring of both cashflows and known excess liquid assets 
through the years.
Ive considered this carefully but Im not persuaded that the estate couldve necessarily 
achieved an IHT saving in these ways. As Ive said above, I think the extra funds wouldve 
most likely been gifted in 2015. So, I think the cashflow wouldve been managed in the same 
way; the extra funds from the Inheritance Bond wouldnt have been available to spend in the 
ways suggested as it was expected/hoped that the gifts made would fall outside of the estate 
and so were already accounted for. Furthermore, it seems to me that if the improvements or 
maintenance on the home were necessary, or additional funds were needed to put towards 
Mrs Ws care, I think the funds wouldve been spent on this, regardless of the estates IHT 
exposure. Its evident that the funds were there if needed. And if the funds werent used for 
those reasons at the time, I dont think they likely wouldve been if the true position had been 
understood.
Overall, I think the estates arguments as to why the IHT wouldnt have been incurred this 
are informed by what we know now, which is that Mrs W sadly didnt survive for seven years 
after making the gifts. However, that couldnt have been known at the time.Dunhams accepted the investigators recommendation to cover the extra solicitors costs the 
estate incurred because of the mistake with the paperwork filed with HMRC. It also agreed to 
pay the state £250 for the inconvenience caused by this. I think this is fair compensation for 
the mistake and the impact of the mistake. So, Im requiring Dunhams to pay this in 
settlement of this complaint.
Putting things right
Dunhams should reimburse the extra £1,046 in solicitors costs the estate incurred as a 
result of the mistake it made in relation to Mrs Ws IHT liability. It should also pay interest on 
this at a gross rate of 8% simple from the date the bill was paid to the date of settlement. If 
Dunhams considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell the executors how much its taken off. It should also give the executors a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Dunhams should also pay the estate £250 for the inconvenience caused by the mistake 
which meant the winding up of the estate was delayed. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part.
Dunhams Financial Planning Limited should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman