DRN-1361799
Complaint
Mrs and Mr M took out a mortgage in 2005 with Santander UK PLC, trading as Abbey. They 
say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. 
For consistency, Ill mainly refer to Santander throughout this decision.
Background
I apologise for how long Mrs and Mr M have had to wait for their complaint to reach this 
stage. As Im sure theyll no doubt know, there have been a lot of similar complaints about 
PPI which have taken businesses and ourselves, a while to get through   so Im sorry about 
that.
Nevertheless, I can see that one of our adjudicators has written to them a while ago to say 
they didnt think their complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with that view 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt that Mrs and Mr M are being honest and 
genuine when they say they cant remember ever agreeing to this PPI. We dont always 
have absolute proof that consumers like them did agree to it at the time and we therefore 
take account of when the sale took place and also look at what we know about the business 
and how it tended to sell policies like these. We also use our general PPI experience and 
think about whats more likely to have happened, particularly when all or some of the 
paperwork no longer survives from the sale.
This sale was around 15 years ago and conducted by 'phone. But we still do have certain 
pieces of information that tends to show - quite strongly in my view - that Santander got the 
consent of Mrs and Mr M to add the PPI in respect of Mr M. Mrs M wasnt covered. 
I think that they would have both probably known such a policy was being set up, because I 
can see the electronic notes from the mortgage telephone discussion. These notes say Mrs 
and Mr M wanted additional insurance cover in respect of Mr M. And I note Mr M appears to 
have been sent or given a comprehensive summary of the recommendations from that 
discussion which is entitled Your PaymentCare Needs and Our Recommendations, dated 
18 January 2005.
We also have a copy of another letter which was effectively a welcome to the new PPI 
policy. This said as you'll see I've Included all your PaymentCare paperwork and 
Schedule of Cover with this letter. Please read them carefully to make sure you're happy with everything and then keep them in the folder in a safe place. I've also sent you a leaflet, 
which tells more about your cover and what to do if you need to make a claim. 
Mrs and Mr M are sure they didnt receive this, nor did they receive a copy of the policy rules 
which Santander says would have been sent to them. Mrs and Mr M also make the point that 
the copy of their electronic mortgage application hasnt been signed.
Ive thought about all these circumstances and the likelihood of someone at the business 
dishonestly adding PPI in respect of only Mr M to their joint-mortgage without their authority. 
I accept this is possible, but in my view, its very unlikely for a number of reasons. 
I bear in mind that this was a telephone application which would involve them being sent 
through certain information rather than it being handed to them. And I also think its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr M knew nothing about the policy, not least because the insurer was a third-
party provider. Theres no dispute PPI was sold to them, so I see no reason why that third-
party provider wouldnt then issue a schedule and policy booklet (and indeed other 
information from time-to-time) to the insured party. 
For Mrs and Mr M to have the policy added unknowingly, it would need the insurer to enter 
into that dishonest venture also. My general experience is that these PaymentCare policies 
were properly issued to consumers although there were sometimes shortcomings  such as 
we see above  with the Santander paperwork. I also consider it quite unlikely for the cover 
to be dishonestly added in respect of one joint-mortgagee and not the other one too. 
But in any event, I think Mrs and Mr M would have also had to agree to the £26.10 leaving 
their account each month and as they kept the policy for a while, they would have been able 
have an awareness of this money leaving their account. I accept entirely that they may not 
remember this after so long.
In short, I think the evidence shows its more likely that they agreed to the PPI back in 2005. 
The policy was recommended to them. This means it ought to have been suitable for their 
needs. Mrs and Mr M say it wasnt needed but overall, I think it was suitable for them. I say 
this because Mr M, the higher earner, appears to have been eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems 
to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and Ive seen 
nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. 
Mrs and Mr M said they didnt need the cover because Mr M also had sickness protection 
with his job. Ive thought very carefully about his job and the likely benefits it could have had. 
But this doesnt make the PPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Mrs and Mr 
Ms home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months. 
This would have been in addition to  and much longer than - any other means they already 
had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why Mrs and Mr M decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if they were told everything they ought to have been when the 
call(s) took place. After 15 years, there's no surviving recording of the call. But I can see the 
costs of the cover were set out on the forms they would have been given, as were some 
brief details about what was covered. The forms I've seen were correctly addressed. So I 
think they had enough information on which to make an informed decision.I think theres enough evidence, on balance, that Mrs and Mr M engaged in the discussions 
about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. It wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK PLC to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman