DRN-3174639
The complaint
Miss W complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (UKI) 
settled a claim on her motor insurance unfairly.
Miss W is represented in this matter by a relative, Mr W, but for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to 
Miss W in my decision.
What happened
Miss W had a motor insurance policy with UKI. In April 2021, she was involved in a road 
accident. Miss W reported the accident to UKI and sent it dash cam footage of the accident 
for her insurance claim. 
UKI told Miss W that the third party disputed liability but that we maintain they are at fault for 
the incident. However, it subsequently reviewed the dash cam footage and decided Miss W 
could have avoided the accident. It agreed to split liability 50/50 with the third partys insurer. 
It referred Miss W to case law as basis for its decision and explained why it had agreed the 
settlement with the third party insurer. UKI said it wouldnt reimburse her excess and would 
record a partial fault claim against her. It apologised for initially telling her it would pursue 
non-fault for the accident and gave her £200 for this.
Miss W is unhappy UKI recorded her accident as a fault against her when she doesnt think 
she was to blame for the accident. She wants UKI to change this and refund her excess. 
She said, in summary:
The third party didnt follow the Highway Code and made a late move into her lane, 
giving her no chance to avoid the collision.
The third partys driver-side wing mirror was broken, meaning his car wasnt 
roadworthy.
UKI misinterpreted the dash cam audio, wrongly suggesting Miss W wasnt fully 
paying attention to the road.
Miss W finds it strange that the third party had his insurance details ready 
immediately following the accident.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She explained 
almost all insurance policies have a term allowing the insurer to take over, defend or settle a 
claim as they see fit. Miss Ws policy also had this term, so UKI was allowed to settle the 
claim. She thought UKI had investigated the accident fairly and its decision to accept split 
liability with the third partys insurer was reasonable. She also thought UKIs compensation 
offer for initially telling her it would pursue her claim was fair.
Miss W didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the case was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to thank Mr W for his detailed submissions, including annotated screenshots of 
the dash cam footage. This has been very helpful for us to understand both what happened 
and why he and Miss W believe the other driver was to blame for the accident.
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Ws policy, UKI can take over, negotiate, or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, paragraph 3b). This is common in car insurance 
policies and UKI doesnt need Miss W to agree this. This also means UKI can make a 
decision Miss W doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and 
reasonable.
I understand why Miss W believes the other driver was to blame for the accident. He was 
clearly in the wrong lane and made a late decision to move into Miss Ws lane.
Ive looked at why UKI decided to split liability. In summary: 
In Grace v Tanner (2003), the Court considered a similar situation and held both 
parties equally liable for the accident.
The third party indicated to show he intended to change lanes before Miss W had 
passed him. Miss W should have realised it wasnt safe to exit the roundabout.
Paragraph 187 of the Highway Code required Miss W to watch out for and give 
plenty of room to traffic which may be straddling lanes or positioned incorrectly. In 
UKIs opinion, she failed to do so.
Miss W could have taken other steps to avoid the accident, for example by staying 
behind the third party as they entered the roundabout.
Miss W argues that Grace v Tanner shouldnt apply because the circumstances of her 
accident were different. Specifically, she says the road markings werent the same in her 
case. On the other hand, UKI says the key point in Grace v Tanner is about exiting a 
roundabout when its safe to do so. I think both arguments have some merit. However, I 
think any argument about the legal interpretation of Grace v Tanner can only really be 
determined in court. That suggests the question of liability isnt clear cut.
I can also see from UKIs internal records that it referred the claim to several internal 
departments before deciding whether to dispute liability. At least six different people at UKI 
reviewed the dash cam footage. All agreed that a 50/50 split liability was the best likely 
outcome. So I can understand why UKI would want to settle rather than get involved in a 
liability dispute with the third partys insurer.
Ive got a lot of sympathy for Miss W. However, Im satisfied that UKI considered all the 
available evidence when it investigated the accident. And, having looked at that evidence 
myself, I cant say that UKIs decision to agree a split liability settlement with the third partys 
insurer was unreasonable. The consequence of this is that UKI has recorded the claim as a 
fault against Miss W. Thats because a claim is considered fault when the policyholders 
insurer doesnt recover its full costs from a third party, as in this case.
Finally, I think the compensation UKI offered Miss W for raising her expectations about 
liability was fair. I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman