DRN-3779200
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Admiral hasnt paid a fair settlement sum for claim related repairs 
when she made a claim under her home insurance policy in 2020. 
What happened
Ms O made a complaint about several issues relating to claims she made under her home 
insurance policy since 2020. 
An ombudsman issued a final decision in March 2022. Part of the decision was for Admiral 
to pay for the cost of work reasonably required to put right the damage caused by a leak 
under the bath. The ombudsman understood that Ms O had arranged for a contractor to 
carry out the repairs. And so they thought it reasonable for Ms O to provide Admiral with a 
breakdown of the works and costs she paid, so that it could determine what was damage 
related and covered under the claim for an escape of water from a leak under the bath. 
Ms O said a relative and friend carried out the works in December 2020. This included 
replacing the bathroom suite. She explained that the relative no longer has any receipts or 
evidence of the costs including labour. 
Admiral reached a settlement figure - based on the limited information available and advice 
from an in house Surveyor- to settle the claim.
Ms O said the settlement sum was far too low. She provided an estimate shed received 
from a plumber (who didnt carry out the works) in 2020. She thought Admiral should pay a 
settlement sum similar to this estimate. Ms O said she could provide information about 
materials, but thought the settlement didnt fairly reflect the labour involved. 
Admiral didnt uphold Ms Os complaint. It said it had little information to go on, given there 
were no invoices or receipts available for the relatives work. So it asked an in house 
Surveyor to reach a settlement sum based on what it would reasonably cost to carry out 
claim related repairs. It said this included labour, skip hire and permits. Admiral said as it 
wasnt clear if Ms Os relative had carried out the repairs as a business, the settlement sum 
excluded VAT. But Admiral said it would consider any further evidence Ms O could provide. 
Admiral didnt agree that the bathroom suite required replacing as part of the claim related 
works - so it didnt agree to reimburse Ms O for these costs. 
Ms O asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator asked Ms O to provide details and 
evidence of payments she made to her relative for the works and their contact details. 
In response, Ms O provided pictures of the damage. She said her relative carried out the 
work as a favour to her and it cost £2,400. She said she repeatedly asked Admiral to inspect 
the work done, but it hasnt done so. Ms O says Admiral shouldnt need receipts in order to 
decide a settlement sum. Shes unhappy Admiral hasnt provided a breakdown of how it 
reached this sum. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral had 
reached its decision fairly based on the limited information available to it. 
Ms O didnt agree. She says her complaint hasnt been answered. So she wants an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the ombudsmans decision which this complaint stems from, they wrote:
I understand Ms O has had a contractor carry out work to the bathroom. I havent 
seen an invoice for the work, so I dont know what has been done. The work may 
have been limited to repairing the damage caused by the leak or it may have dealt 
with other problems too.
I intend to require Admiral to pay for the cost of work reasonably required to put right 
the damage caused by the leak under the bath. To do that, Ms O should provide 
Admiral with her invoice and a breakdown of the work done. It can then estimate how 
much of that work was a result of the leak and pay the corresponding amount to Ms 
O.
Unfortunately Ms O hasnt been able to provide Admiral with the information I think it would 
reasonably need in order to fairly settle Ms Os claim. And I dont think it reasonable to 
expect Admiral to rely on an estimate provided by a business Ms O didnt use to carry out 
the works. 
From what she has told us, Ms Os relative carried out the works as a favour to her. She 
hasnt provided any proof of payment to her relative for their labour. So in the absence of 
proof of the actual costs for the claim related repairs, I think Admirals decision to relay on its 
in house Surveyor to decide a settlement sum was fair - based on its experience of dealing 
with claims and paying cash settlement sums for claim related repairs. Insurers can attract 
commercially beneficial rates with approved suppliers. Admiral, like all insurers, can 
therefore apply commercial rates for works and labour costs. This information is business 
sensitive. Admiral has broken down the settlement sum as follows:
£797.88 excluding VAT for claim related repairs including labour
£35 permit
£118.80 skip hire including VAT
I dont think Admiral was obliged to arrange an inspection of the works which have already 
been completed. I dont know what value this would add for Admiral to be able to decide a 
fair cash settlement - without invoices or proof of payment for labour. No evidence has been 
provided to support Ms Os view that Admiral should pay more than it has. 
I understand Ms O will be very disappointed with my decision. But from the information 
available to me, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably. And it said it would reconsider Ms 
Os claim if further evidence became available. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman