DRN-2020536
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his accounts after hed been the victim 
of a job scam.
What happened
Mr N had two accounts with Lloyds. 
In November 2018, after posting his CV online, Mr N was approached about a job making 
deliveries, which he accepted. The job involved Mr N receiving parcels at his address on 
behalf of customers and then sending them overseas to the customers. Mr N provided his 
bank details to the company so that he could receive his monthly salary. And he started work 
in December 2018. 
Between January and April 2019, a number of payments were made into Mr Ns current 
account. Mr N says these payments were made into his account by his new employer who 
told him to use the money to buy high value electronics and bitcoins, which he did. Mr N 
became suspicious and quickly realised hed been the victim of an employment scam. 
Lloyds then received notifications from a number of other banks each saying that their 
customer had been the victim of fraud and money from their account had been paid into 
Mr Ns account. So, Lloyds blocked Mr Ns accounts then told him it intended to close all his 
accounts in 60 days.
Mr N complained to the bank. He said he hadnt done anything wrong. He showed the bank 
paperwork, which included emailed instructions hed received from the company he believed 
had employed him. And that hed reported the matter to the police. So, he thought the bank 
had treated him unfairly when it closed his accounts. 
Lloyds disagreed. It said it was entitled to close Mr Ns accounts. Unhappy with this 
response Mr N brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. He said Lloyds had acted 
appropriately and in line with the terms and relevant regulations, but Mr N disagreed. The 
investigator didnt think there was any disagreement that Mr N had been the victim here. But 
that didnt mean Lloyds wasnt able to close his accounts. The investigator noted that Mr N 
had given his bank details to a third party, who had then gone on to use them to commit 
fraud. So, Lloyds would think Mr N was a higher risk to the bank and werent wrong to block 
the accounts.  Mr N disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ill deal first with Lloyds decision to block Mr Ns accounts while it investigated the concerns 
expressed to it by the other banks. Having looked at the evidence, I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to act in the way it did. It had received several reports from other 
banks that money coming into Mr Ns account was fraudulent. So, I can see why Lloyds 
reasonably believed it should take steps to prevent Mr N using the money that had come into 
his account. Lloyds has explained this is standard procedure and I accept that it was. Thats 
in line with what most banks would do in the same situation and it allowed Lloyds to consider 
how best to react to the reports it had received. So, I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong 
when it restricted Mr Ns accounts.
I can see Mr N feels very strongly about whats happened. Thats clear from whats hes said 
to us and to Lloyds. Im not surprised as Mr N has been the victim of a scam here. And hes 
now got to go to the trouble of finding another bank account. So, I can understand he is 
upset and frustrated that Lloyds no longer want him as a customer. 
Having looked at what Mr N has told us, with the benefit of hindsight, it probably looks 
strange to Mr N that a job should involve receipt of money from one party for buying 
electronic goods and bitcoins and transferring these onto others  especially when Mr N was 
employed to deliver parcels. And I accept he was genuine in his belief this was a legitimate 
exercise. But, as the investigator has already explained, Lloyds doesnt have to provide Mr N 
with banking facilities. 
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. Lloyds did give 
Mr N 60 days notice. But Mr Ns accounts were blocked from 1 May 2019; he was unable to 
gain access to the funds in them until it was formally closed with 60 days notice. So, I 
consider it was effectively closed on 1 May 2019  since after that time Mr N couldnt use it. 
Having looked at all the evidence, in particular that Mr Ns account was being used for fraud, 
in my view that wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong 
when it closed Mr Ns accounts.
Mr N is unhappy that Lloyds havent returned any money to him when it closed his accounts. 
But the funds paid into Mr Ns current account were fraudulent  in other words the money 
wasnt his in the first place. And it has been returned to the sending bank. So, hes not out of 
pocket. And I wont be asking Lloyds to return any money to him. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr N when Lloyds blocked and closed 
his accounts. So, I realise Mr N will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds has treated Mr N fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman