DRN-4332666
The complaint
Miss C complains about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited lent her. She says the loan was 
lent irresponsibly as she couldnt afford it and she suffered from bipolar manic episodes and 
wasnt in the right frame of mind to make financial commitments.
What happened
In May 2022, Oakbrook lent Miss C one loan for £2,500, the loan was repayable in 24 
monthly instalments of £149.74. The loan account has defaulted as Miss C hasnt managed 
to keep up with her monthly repayments.
Oakbrook didnt think it did anything wrong when Miss C complained to it, so she referred 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, he 
thought Oakbrook wasnt wrong to lend in the circumstances.
Miss C disagreed, she said she had another complaint about a loan around the same time 
upheld. She also reiterated her point that she had bipolar manic episodes that meant she 
wasnt in the right frame of mind to take on any financial commitments.
As the complaint has remained unresolved it has been passed to me  an ombudsman for a 
decision. My decision is the final stage in the Financial Ombudsmans process and if Miss C 
accepts my decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakbrook is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Miss C would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out 
in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments, 
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. 
Oakbrook has said it asked Miss C about her income and verified this using her payslip 
for March 2022 pay period. It also said it searched Miss Cs credit file and has provided 
an outline of what its search at the time found.
Miss Cs payslip showed her income was around £2,470 per month, similar to what she 
declared. The results of the credit file showed Miss C had three active accounts with a total 
outstanding balance of £140, this balance was on her credit card and was below the limit. 
There were no other open accounts showing at the time of the search. The search also 
showed Miss C had four defaulted accounts with the most recent default around 23 months 
before the loan. Those defaulted accounts had been repaid and were showing as satisfied. 
I wouldnt have expected Oakbrook to decline Miss Cs application based on those historic 
defaults that had now been settled. From what Oakbrook could see from its search into 
Miss Cs account, there were no signs she was in financial difficulties or that she would 
struggle to repay the loan.
Oakbrook says it based her living costs on data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) 
and worked out her monthly living costs was around £1,310. I think it would have been 
reasonable for Oakbrook to have asked Miss C about her living costs as well, given that she 
was going into this 24-month term loan.
Miss C has provided copies of her bank statements and Ive used this to understand what 
shed likely have declared as her living costs at the time of the loan and whether Oakbrook 
lent when it shouldnt have. From what I can see, Miss Cs average regular living costs within 
the three-month period was between £1,300 and £1,500. 
Thinking about Miss Cs income, and credit commitments, she was left with sufficient 
disposable income to meet emergencies and further expenses while being able to repay the 
loan over the term. So even if Oakbrook had asked Miss C about her monthly living costs, 
its likely to have found she could afford to repay the loan over the term.
Miss C has raised some points in response to the adjudicators view and Ive carefully 
considered this. Looking at the information from the time of sale, theres nothing to suggest 
Miss C told Oakbrook about her bipolar episodes. Theres also nothing to suggest Oakbrook 
should have found this out through reasonable checks. In this circumstance it wasnt 
something Id have expected Oakbrook to consider when Miss C applied for the loan.
Miss C has also said she had another complaint upheld. I wont be commenting about that 
as Im required to look at the circumstances of the sale of this loan and what Oakbrook knew 
or ought to have known at the time. I think based on reasonable checks, which I think 
Oakbrook carried, it wasnt unreasonable for it to lend.
Having fully considered all the evidence I dont think Oakbrook unfairly lent to Miss C and so 
I wont be asking it to close her account or remove adverse information from her credit file. 
However, Id remind Oakbrook to treat Miss C positively now that shes struggling to meet 
her repayments and in light of the information she has shared about her medical condition.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman