DRN-4235666
The complaint
Mr C complains that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to HDI, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a summary of the key events here. 
Mr C made a claim under his legal expenses policy to pursue a clinical negligence 
dispute. 
HDI appointed one of its panel firms of solicitors to assess the merits of the claim.
The solicitors concluded that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success, 
as required by the policy. 
Based on this advice, HDI declined the claim. But it said Mr C could challenge the 
advice by obtaining a barristers opinion at his own cost, which would be reimbursed 
if supportive.
Mr C raised a complaint, which he brought to our Service. He says his claim does 
enjoy reasonable prospects and that it was only declined by the solicitors because 
theyd be unable to recover their costs in the small claims court. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied HDI had acted in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy say that claims will only be covered if they enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success defined by the policy as a greater than 50% chance of 
the insured successfully pursuing or defending the claim and, if the insured is seeking 
damages or compensation, a greater than 50% chance of enforcing any judgment that might 
be obtained. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, HDI obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion that the 
claim doesnt enjoy prospects of greater than 50%. Having considered the legal assessment, 
Im satisfied its properly written and well-reasoned. And its been obtained from a suitably 
qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that HDI shouldnt rely on it. 
Rather, its up to Mr C to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own 
cost, if he wants to challenge this further. The policy says this should be in the form of a 
barristers opinion and if its supportive, HDI will reimburse the reasonable costs of that 
opinion. 
I appreciate Mr C believes the solicitors rejection of his claim is for unjust and strategical 
reasons, but Ive seen no evidence of this. The solicitors have been clear why the claim 
doesnt have merit and Mr C hasnt provided any legal opinion or evidence to prove 
otherwise. 
As such, Im satisfied HDI has handled the claim in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, and Im not persuaded its acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman