DRN-3115005
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) misled him about his 
cover when he informed them of renovation works that were about to start at the insured 
address. 
Where I refer to Lloyds, this includes their agents. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mr G had his home insurance policy with Lloyds. The policy included legal expenses 
insurance (LEI). The home and contents policy was underwritten by Lloyds and the LEI was 
underwritten by another insurer that Ill refer to as D. 
In July 2018 Mr G called Lloyds to inform them that there would soon be building and 
renovation work taking place at his home address. Lloyds amended his policy to reflect this. 
They mentioned there would be some endorsements (some of which related to theft and 
storm damage) added to the policy for the duration of the works. They also said that an 
increased premium would be payable until the renewal date of around £70. 
Mr G later had a dispute with one of the contractors who were doing the work. He claimed on 
his LEI policy with D but his claim was declined. This was primarily due to a policy exclusion 
relating to contract disputes involving building works. In 2020 Mr G complained to Lloyds. He 
believes that when he informed them of the imminent works, and was charged an additional 
premium, that this should have included increasing his LEI cover to include potential 
problems. Or if Lloyds had informed him that wasnt the case, he would have sought 
additional cover elsewhere. As such, he would like Lloyds to allow him up to £50,000 (the 
limit of indemnity of his LEI policy) to pursue his legal case. 
Lloyds said that they updated Mr Gs buildings and contents policy in relation to the building 
work. But as the LEI is provided by another insurer, they wouldnt have updated it. The 
matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, so Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the documentation Lloyds sent Mr G when they updated his policy. This says 
Your policy has been updated Weve enclosed your revised policy schedule and we 
recommend you read it carefully alongside your policy booklet, to understand what excesses 
and limits apply and what youre now covered for.
The schedule gives an overview of the cover, including showing up to £50,000 for LEI with D 
with contract disputes listed as one of the benefits of the policy. I wouldnt expect a policy 
schedule to include details of all the terms and exclusions that might apply. Lloyds were 
clear that the schedule should be read in conjunction with the policy document which does 
include the applicable exclusions. 
Where the policy had changed, such as the introduction of special conditions, this was 
clearly communicated. Overall, I think the information provided by Lloyds was clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
Mr G says that Lloyds ought to have advised him that the change he had reported would 
invalidate his legal cover. I dont agree this is the case. The LEI provided cover for several 
issues which included employment disputes, and personal injury. Even if Lloyds were 
obliged to advise Mr G (I dont think they were), the start of building works at his home didnt 
impact any cover available. The exclusion that D relied on wasnt introduced on the basis of 
the works starting, it was there from the start. There was also still the benefit of the other 
areas of the LEI that remained available to Mr G. 
Ive also listened to the call in question. At no point were there any discussions about or did 
Mr G mention wanting cover for potential problems with any contractors. Lloyds werent 
giving Mr G advice when updating the policy, and so it was for Mr G to ensure that the policy 
met his needs. Im satisfied that Lloyds provided sufficient information in an appropriate 
format. If Mr G wanted to ensure he was covered for contract disputes arising from the 
building work it was for him to check his policy coverage or to seek appropriate advice. I 
dont agree that Lloyds misled Mr G and there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can ask 
them to compensate him in the way that hes suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman