DRN-3825590
The complaint
Ms D complains UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2018 Ms D applied for, and was given a guarantor loan for £10,000, which was
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £330 a month.
When neither Ms D nor the guarantor made the contractual repayments for the loan, UK
Credit sought a County Court Judgment (CCJ), which was granted in July 2020. The
guarantor satisfied the court order on 12 August 2020.
UK Credit upheld Ms Ds complaint that the loan was unaffordable. As a result it paid the
guarantor all the money theyd paid towards the loan and said Ms D needed to pay it the
balance between what shed already paid and the £10,000 shed originally borrowed.
Ms D didnt think that was fair. She didnt think she ought to end up in a worse position than
she was as a result of making a successful complaint.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I didnt think it was 
fair or reasonable for UK Credit to pursue Ms D for the balance between what she borrowed 
and what shes already repaid. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to make a finding about whether UK Credit should have given Ms D the loan 
both parties now agree it shouldnt have done. But what I need to decide is whether
UK Credit as acted fairly in putting things right.
The Financial Ombudsmans standard approach to redress is to put consumers back in the
position they wouldve have been had any potential error from a business not occurred. That
is not possible in cases where capital has been advanced to consumer  and they no longer
have that money. So in those instances our stance is that the consumer should only pay 
back the amount of credit theyve borrowed. Thats because the consumer (unless proven
otherwise) has had the benefit of the capital advanced.
In this case Ms D borrowed £10,000 but only made payments to UK Credit totalling around
£2,800. The remaining balance was paid by the guarantor. So Ms D hasnt lost out
financially as a result of being given the loan and is not due any redress in this regard.
While UK Credit is right that it doesnt need to pay any redress to Ms D, it is now asking her
to pay the balance of the £10,000 she originally borrowed, as its refunded all the money the
guarantor paid towards it. So, as a result of UK Credit considering and upholding Ms Ds
complaint, it now intends to put her in a financially disadvantageous position over the one
she would be in had she not complained, or had it not upheld her complaint. Im not
persuaded this is a fair or reasonable outcome. But in any event, I dont think theres any
active contract or court order that allows it to do this.
Once the CCJ was granted, the money owed to UK Credit was then owed under what is
known as a judgment debt, which is a court order to pay a stated sum of money. That court
order replaces the original, contractual debt which ceases to exist once judgment is granted
on it. And the court order was satisfied by the guarantor back in August 2020. So there
doesnt appear to be any active agreement in place or judgment that allows UK Credit to
pursue Ms D for any further payments.
Based on what Ive seen so far; Im currently minded to say Ms D is due no redress as she
hasnt suffered a financial loss. But Im not currently persuaded it is fair or reasonable for
UK Credit to pursue Ms D for the balance between what she borrowed and what shes
already repaid. And I dont think theres any existing basis on which it can do so.
Both Ms D and UK Credit responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither UK Credit nor Ms D have provided any new evidence or arguments in response to 
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
It follows that for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont think Ms D 
has suffered any financial loss as a result of being given the loan. But it isnt fair or 
reasonable for UK Credit to pursue Ms D for the balance between what she borrowed and 
what shes already repaid. And I dont think theres any existing basis on which it can do so. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct UK Credit Limited not to pursue Ms D for any further 
money in relation to the loan she took out in August 2018. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman