DRN-4449951
The complaint
Mrs Ps complained that Dignity Funerals Limited have refused to refund her the full amount 
shes paid towards the pre-paid funeral plan she bought from a previous provider.  And she 
says Dignity pressured her to decide to transfer to them, as well as failing to respond to her 
complaint. 
What happened
In 2019, Mrs P bought a pre-paid funeral plan from a provider Ill call B.  She agreed to pay 
for the plan in instalments spread over five years.  She selected a funeral director she 
trusted to deal with the funeral when the need arose.
From 29 July 2022, all providers of pre-paid funeral plans had to be regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  This meant providers who had sold plans before this 
had to apply to the FCA for authorisation, or withdraw from the market and transfer its plans 
to an authorised provider or refund its customers.
B wasnt authorised by the FCA.  So it had until 31 October 2022 to transfer its plans and 
wind down its business.  B negotiated with Dignity for Dignity to offer its plan holders an 
alternative.
Dignity wrote to Mrs P on 17 October 2022, offering her a plan which matched as closely as 
possible the plan shed bought from B.  Dignity said transferring was 
the only way to ensure that the full value of the payments you have made to your [B] plan 
is maintained.  
And they said Mrs P would still make the outstanding payments, but to Dignity, rather than B.
Mrs Ps plan was transferred in early November.  In early January 2023, Dignity confirmed 
the amount of the direct debit they would collect, and that theyd start doing so in late 
February. 
When she received her welcome pack, Mrs P found out she couldnt use the funeral director 
shed previously chosen.  So she wrote to Dignity, requesting they cancel her plan and 
refund her everything shed paid.  Dignity replied, telling Mrs P theyd not received any 
monies from B, or confirmation of what shed paid them for the plan.  Mrs P contacted 
Dignity again in May, after Bs administrators had told her the position of the trust into which 
B had paid her instalments should have been finalised in April.   
When Dignity said they still werent able to provide a refund, Mrs P complained.  And when 
Dignity didnt respond, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service.  When we requested their 
file, Dignity said theyd not received Mrs Ps complaint, so a copy was provided.  Once 
Dignity had sent Mrs P their final response, the complaint was considered by one of our 
investigators.
The investigator concluded Dignity didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint.  
She was satisfied Dignity hadnt received any funds from B, so couldnt provide the full 
refund Mrs P wanted.  And, while she noted Mrs P hadnt had long to make her decision, the 
investigator said it was Mrs Ps choice to transfer.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.  I know shell be disappointed by that 
decision.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons Ive made it.
I understand Mrs Ps frustrated.  She took steps to plan for her funeral.  Those plans can no 
longer be carried out.  And she feels she was rushed into accepting an alternative with 
Dignity which doesnt provide all that she wants.  Nor can she get back what shes paid.
None of this is Mrs Ps fault.  But I can only say Dignity should do more to resolve her 
complaint if I think some or all of what has happened is their responsibility.  Unfortunately for 
Mrs P, I dont think thats the case.
As Ive set out above, B is no longer permitted to administer pre-paid funeral plans, because 
it isnt authorised by the FCA.  For the same reason, our service has no jurisdiction over B.    
The deadline of 31 October 2022 for businesses leaving the market to transfer or close their 
plans was set by the FCA.  It was for B to make those arrangements.  Mrs P has suggested 
that they would have been worked on very soon after 29 July.  While I understand why shed 
suggest that, Ive no evidence that was the case.  And Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Dignity only to write to Bs customers after B itself had done so.
So, while I acknowledge the time was short, I cant say that was because Dignity imposed an 
unreasonable deadline.  Mrs P has said their letter caused her to be anxious that responding 
outside the deadline and/or not agreeing to the transfer would result in her losing the money 
shed paid.  While I can see why she says that, I think the information in the letter was 
accurate.  The alternative  not transferring her plan  would have left Mrs P trying to 
recover the money shed paid from Bs administrators, which would also have been worrying.  
As things stand, Dignity are giving her credit for the payments she made to B, even though 
that money hasnt been transferred to them.
And, because Dignity havent received any funds from B, its not fair for me to say Dignity 
should refund Mrs P everything shes paid towards her plan.  If Mrs P wants to cancel her 
plan, Id expect Dignity to refund what shes paid them, in line with their own terms and 
conditions.  And Id expect them to pass on any money they receive from B.  But I wouldnt 
expect them to do more.
Mrs P also complained to our service that Dignity didnt respond when she sent them a 
complaint letter by recorded delivery.  Shes provided a copy of the confirmation of delivery.
I accept Mrs Ps evidence shows the letter reached Dignitys office.  But she didnt chase 
Dignity for a response  rather, she directed her concerns to the FCA.  And when the eight 
weeks allowed for Dignity to respond had passed, she contacted our service. 
Mrs P was entitled to deal with the matter in that way.  But, when a business does something 
wrong, part of what I look at is what they did to put things right.  When our service contacted 
Dignity, they told us theyd never received the complaint.  And they addressed Mrs Ps 
concerns in a final response letter.I accept the letter was lost by Dignity.  But Im satisfied they addressed Mrs Ps concerns 
promptly when they were made aware of them.  So I dont think they need to do anything 
more here.
Finally, Ive noticed Mrs P has expressed concerns about the safety of money she pays to 
Dignity.  Given her experience with B, thats entirely understandable.  But bringing pre-paid 
funeral plans into regulation means that, in the event that an FCA authorised business fails, 
customers who are owed money can make a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.  While I accept that doesnt change Mrs Ps situation with B, I hope it provides her 
with some reassurance that anything she pays to Dignity in future would benefit from this 
protection. 
Overall, I can see that the introduction of the regulation of pre-paid funeral plans left Mrs P 
with options, none of which she would have chosen.  While thats completely 
understandable, I cant say that was Dignitys fault.  And for that reason, I cant say they 
should do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint about Dignity Funerals 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman