DRN-4310509
The complaint
Mr S complains about a £2,400 fee (the Fee) that he believes Julian Hodge Bank Ltd (Hodge 
Bank) unfairly charged him.
What happened
The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 4 August 2023, 
which forms part of this decision.
I provisionally concluded that Mr S complaint should not be upheld.
In summary I said:
It isnt disputed Mr S initial intention was not to redeem but to reassign the Loan. And 
neither is it disputed the Fee was charged for the aborted reassignment. Hodge Banks 
solicitors invoice persuades me they were paid by the bank for all the legal work conducted 
on their behalf in connection with the redemption of the Loan. I am satisfied it included the 
Fee for the aborted reassignment.
What is at issue and what I have to decide is whether the Fee was properly and fairly 
incurred. In particular, bearing in mind Mr S case that there were no provisions in the terms 
and conditions of the Loan on which the bank could rely for charging the Fee.
Were Hodge Bank entitled to charge the Fee?
Mr S has told us that his lawyer advised him that, although the Fee was submitted as part of 
the redemption costs, nonetheless, it falls outside the scope of redemption payments 
generally. He said he was further advised that it was for each side to bear responsibility for 
their own legal costs associated with the aborted reassignment of the Loan.
So, Ive weighed up the terms and conditions of the Loan against Mr S arguments.
Schedule 2 of the terms and conditions of the Loan, states the following:
2. Covenants
2.2 you shall fully indemnify us from and against all expenses, costs, losses, damages or 
liabilities incurred by us arising out of the occurrence of any Event of Default
Clause 4.2 of the same Schedule provides examples of Events of Default which includes:
i.) if on the due date any amount payable by you hereunder is not paid;
Mr S defaulted on the repayments towards the Loan. And I note it was in the aftermath of the 
default he and the Guarantors asked about the possibility of a reassignment of the Loan. To 
that end the lawyers for both sides were engaged.
I am minded to conclude therefore that the Fee arose from an Event of Default. That is Mr S 
failure to make his contractual payments. It was against that background he put to the bank 
the reassignment proposal which ultimately led to the generation of the Fee. Therefore, Im 
presently satisfied Hodge Bank were entitled to ask Mr S to settle it and I dont therefore 
accept Mr Ss case the bank had no proper basis for requiring him to do so.
Was Mr S treated unfairly when asked by Hodge Bank to pay the Fee?
Although, for the reasons Ive already explained Im satisfied Hodge Bank were entitled to 
recover the Fee from Mr S, Ive nonetheless thought about whether in the circumstances of 
the case it was fair for them to do so.
As the investigator observed, Hodge Bank havent shown that they told Mr S about their 
solicitors charges for their work in connection with the reassignment of the Loan and that he 
agreed to them. And it is possible Mr S wouldnt have proposed the re-assignment of the 
Loan if Hodge Banks solicitors likely costs were known beforehand.
But Ive seen no evidence and nor is it Mr Ss case that at the outset, knowledge of Hodge 
Banks solicitors costs was a pre-condition to proceeding with the reassignment and, 
importantly, Hodge Bank knew this.
Moreover, bearing in mind the reassignment proposal came from Mr S, I find it difficult to 
conclude Hodge Bank were obliged to check first with Mr S whether he was happy with their 
solicitors charges for the work theyd have to undertake.
In any case as noted above, Hodge Bank have said that they believe they were entitled to 
appoint fixed charge receivers in light of Mr S default. However, in order to assist and 
support Mr S, and the Guarantors, agreed to the reassignment as a gesture of goodwill.
Im minded to conclude therefore, the bank would likely have appointed receivers at a cost 
estimated at £2,500  and therefore more than the Fee - if the reassignment proposal hadnt 
been suggested as a way forward.
It would seem Hodge Banks solicitors charges were based on the scope of the legal work 
they thought necessary, which ultimately seemed to make the transaction prohibitive.
However, it is not for me as ombudsman to determine the nature of the work both sides were 
required to undertake for the reassignment of the Loan. And in particular, whether the fees 
Hodge Banks solicitors were willing to charge for that work were unreasonable.
Ultimately, Hodge Bank were able to negotiate a reduction in their solicitors fees to £2,400. 
The bank paid the Fee and the terms and conditions of the Loan required Mr S to indemnify 
the bank in respect of it. In the overall circumstances of the case, I do not think at present 
that I am able to conclude it was unfair for the bank to recover the Fee from Mr S.
Hodge Bank did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr S on the other hand has. Hes 
maintained his position that the Fee was neither fair or reasonable for reasons which I 
summarise. 
Mr S said:
He agrees with the finding that there were no provisions in the terms and conditions 
of the Loan on which Hodge Bank could rely for charging the Fee. And this is at the 
heart of the matter. Therefore, if there were no contractual provisions for such a fee 
to be charged, it cannot be fair and reasonable for the bank to do so. He did not propose reassignment of the Loan, and neither was he informed of the 
Fee before it was incurred.
The reassignment of the Loan was negotiated directly between the bank and a third 
party.
The property against which the loan was secured was put into receivership in any 
event. And those fees were charged to him. So, the reassignment was not an attempt 
to prevent those fees being incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S has explained that the crux of this case is that there were no provisions in the terms 
and conditions of the Loan by which Hodge Bank were entitled to charge the Fee. And I note 
he stated that he agreed with me on this point.  
However, my provisional finding was not to that effect. I explained that the terms and 
conditions of the Loan were important considerations in determining whether the bank was 
entitled to charge the Fee. But to be clear, I was satisfied that those terms and conditions did 
allow the bank to do so. 
I came to that conclusion because I was satisfied that under Schedule 2 of those terms and 
conditions, Mr S was obliged to indemnify Hodge Bank against, among other things, all 
expenses, costs, liabilities, that were incurred by the bank arising from the occurrence of any 
Event of Default. And, again in reliance on the terms and conditions, I was also satisfied that 
an Event of Default occurred in circumstances where payment of the Loan falls due on a 
certain date but isnt paid. Those were the circumstances in this case, bearing in mind that 
Mr S omitted to make contractual payments to Hodge Bank when they were due.  
Separately, however, I did also think about whether Hodge Bank acted unreasonably when 
they charged the Fee. And relevant to that consideration were the circumstances in which 
the Fee was incurred. 
I am satisfied that on Mr S default, the bank was entitled to appoint a fixed charge receiver. 
But rather than proceed along those lines, the evidence seems to point to some flexibility in 
the banks approach. 
Mr S has explained that he did not propose the re-assignment of the Loan. And that in fact 
the re-assignment was negotiated by the bank and a third party. That may well be true. I 
note for example the Loan was guaranteed and the Guarantors were part of the discussions 
with the bank regarding the way forward. 
More importantly, however, whether or not the proposal came from Mr S or elsewhere it is 
no part of Mr S case that he was unaware of the proposed re-assignment as a way forward. 
And furthermore, that discussions were taking place towards that end. Indeed, I find it more 
likely than not that Mr S would not have been unaware of these events given they were 
taking place in the aftermath of a significant event affecting him  which was his default. As to the Fee, I have no reason to doubt Mr S testimony that he was not informed about it 
beforehand. But the crucial point in this regard is that the Fee seemed only to have become 
an issue when it turned out to be relatively substantial. I note that there followed a series of 
discussions with the bank about the scope of the legal work involved in the reassignment. 
And it would appear that the banks apparent unwillingness to consider alternative legal 
representatives to mitigate the extent of the costs led to deadlock. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, it is not for me as ombudsman to determine 
the nature of the legal work that was required for the reassignment of the Loan. And neither 
is it for me to determine whether the charge proposed by Hodge Banks solicitors for that 
work was reasonable. I see no reason to depart from that opinion. 
Finally, I note Mr S evidence that the property ended up in receivership in any event and 
therefore the re-assignment was never an attempt to avoid the Fee. 
From the evidence Ive seen, however, it would appear that the fixed charge receiver was 
appointed after the aborted re-assignment. And, moreover, it also appears that decision was 
taken in light of the stalemate between Mr S and the bank regarding who should ultimately 
bear responsibility for the Fee. Against that background it is difficult to conclude the banks 
action in this regard was unfair. 
Having considered Mr S case and although anticipating this will unfortunately further 
disappoint him, I have not been persuaded to reach a different conclusion than that which I 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman