DRN-4072583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out an annual travel insurance policy on 25 September 2021. The insurer 
of the policy was AWP P&C SA. The policy provided cover for various pre-departure and 
post-departure risks.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that they booked a long weekend away in the UK, with the trip 
due to be from 11 February 2022 to 14 February 2022. Theyve said the trip was for their 
whole family  and was paid for with funds they inherited from Mr Cs late mother. 
Mr and Mrs C said that Mr Cs late mother had specifically left funds for an event to bring the 
family together. So, thats what they used those funds for.
However, the trip needed to be cancelled, because several members of the family became ill 
with Covid-19, and therefore it was no longer possible to take the trip as intended. Because 
of this, Mr and Mrs C have said they lost the sum of £5,450  which was the total paid for the 
booking. So, they made a claim under their travel insurance policy for this loss on 15 
February 2022.
AWP considered the claim and accepted it. On 6 June 2022 wrote to Mr and Mrs C with a 
settlement for the claim. This settlement was £576.66. AWP explained how this settlement 
figure was arrived at. It said there were 15 people taking the trip, with the total cost of the trip 
being £5,450. So, it divided the total cost of the trip by 15. And then paid for what it said 
were the costs for two people to go on the trip  Mr and Mrs C. Minus the applicable policy 
excess.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was correct. They said they had paid for the whole of the trip, 
using funds from Mr Cs late mother. So, they should receive £5,450 in respect of their claim, 
minus the policy excess.
AWP maintained its position on the claim settlement. It said that the cancellation section of 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy provided for your irrecoverable portion of costs. AWP said it could 
only pay the proportion of any claim that relates to the people named on the policy  which 
was Mr and Mrs C. So, AWP said it was right to base the settlement only on Mr and Mrs Cs 
proportion of the trip. AWP said other members of Mr and Mrs Cs family would need to 
claim on their own travel insurance policies for the remaining proportions of the cost.
In addition to this, AWP said that the Covid-19 pandemic and increase in claims had affected 
their ability to respond to customers and answer calls as quickly as theyd like. So, AWP 
apologised for this.  Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied with AWPs position on the matter. 
So, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said 
Mr and Mrs C had paid for the trip in its entirety, from funds left to them specifically for the 
purpose of them using the money to bring the family together. So, they considered
Mr and Mrs C had paid for the holiday as a gift, and they considered their portion of the trip 
to therefore be the full amount paid. For that reason, they considered that AWP should settle 
the outstanding amount of the claim, in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
In addition to this, our investigator recommended £75 compensation be paid to compensate 
Mr and Mrs C for the impact delays in processing the claim caused to them. 
Mr and Mrs C responded to our investigator and accepted their outcome. AWP didnt reply. 
As AWP didnt reply. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AWP 
acted in line with these requirements, when it agreed to settle £576.66 for Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim. 
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy, to see what cover it 
provides to them. From doing so, I can see there is cover for cancellation of a trip, where
Mr and Mrs C or a travelling companion was suffering from illness, including Covid-19. Its 
accepted that was the situation Mr and Mrs C found themselves in. 
The cancellation section of the policy goes on to explain that AWP will pay the for:
your irrecoverable portion of the costs; for travel, air tickets, pre-booked excursions, tours, 
courses and/or events up to the sum insured.which have not been used and you have 
paid or are contracted to pay.
Given the above, Im aware the policy only covers Mr and Mrs Cs portion of the 
irrecoverable costs. The dispute in this case is about what Mr and Mrs Cs portion of the 
costs for the trip are. With AWP saying Mr and Mrs Cs portion of the costs were two 
fifteenths of the trips cost  because the holiday party was made up of 15 people. Ive 
thought about whether AWP has acted fairly in this case by deciding this. And I dont think it 
did.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Cs portion of the costs was the total cost the trip. I say this because 
Mr and Mrs C have evidenced that they paid for the total trip. Theyve provided bank 
statements and payment confirmation from the accommodation provider which confirms this. 
And theyve explained why they were paying for the whole trip. This being because they 
were provided with funds from Mr Cs late mother, to bring the family together. I havent seen 
any suggestion that Mr and Mrs C were expecting any form of repayment. And therefore, 
their portion of the trip was the whole amount.
I appreciate AWP consider that the term in their policy allows for them to pay only for the 
costs associated with two people staying at the booked accommodation. But the policy 
doesnt say it will only pay for Mr and Mrs Cs proportion, regardless of whether they paid for 
others, it simply says it will pay for Mr and Mrs Cs portion of the trip. Which as above, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to say was the full amount. Given the above, AWP Im satisfied AWP should settle the outstanding amount of 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim, based on their portion of the trip being the whole cost of it, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have been without these funds, since the point their claim was accepted, and 
they were offered a settlement of £576.66 on 6 June 2022. So, AWP should also pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount, as detailed in my final decision section below, to recognise 
they have been without funds that should have been settled on 6 June 2022. 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs C complained that their claim took too long to deal with, and that the 
customer service provided in respect of their claim was poor. AWP accepted there had been 
delays in the claim. It apologised for the issues experienced. But I do think it would also be 
fair for AWP to pay some compensation to Mr and Mrs C, for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced as a result of these issues. 
Mr and Mrs C have said the situation caused them inconvenience and frustration. And its 
caused some friction in the family, as they havent been able to rebook the family trip. With 
this impact in mind, Im satisfied £75 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount to 
recognise the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs C have experienced. So, I also require AWP to 
pay this.
My final decision
Given the above, I require AWP P&C SA to:
Settle the outstanding amount of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, based on their portion of the 
trip being the whole cost of it, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Pay 8% interest, simple per annum on the outstanding amount, from the date of initial 
settlement, which was 6 June 2022, to the date the remaining amount is settled, less 
any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customers requires AWP P&C SA to 
deduct tax from this interest, AWP P&C SA should give Mr and Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
Pay Mr and Mrs C £75 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman