DRN-3222462
The complaint
Mr H and Ms S are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
handled their home insurance claim when their home and holiday rental property were 
damaged by a flood. The buildings and contents policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill 
refer only to Mr H. Any reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Briefly, in August 2019 Mr H claimed under his policy when his home and separate rental 
property suffered significant flood damage. Admiral accepted the claim and started repairs 
seven months later. The repairs stopped after two days because of the national lockdown. 
The claim is still ongoing.
Mr H raised the following complaints with Admiral:
There were delays and lengthy gaps in communication.
Admiral didnt follow up on work with its agents.
His home was left in a poor state.
Admiral tried to cash settle after starting repairs.
Admiral accepted it had made mistakes and agreed with all parts of Mr Hs complaint. It 
offered him a total of £750 compensation for the shortfalls in service, but Mr H remained 
unhappy. He didnt think the offer was enough. Mr H also complained that Admiral hadnt 
included the possible damage to his rental property shower room in its consideration of his 
claim. Admiral asked our service to decide this element of the claim because it didnt think it 
was necessary to replace the walls and tiles.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think Mr H had provided any evidence 
to show that the shower room walls and tiles needed replacing. But, she said if Mr H 
arranged an independent assessment which provided evidence of damaged walls, then 
Admiral should consider his submission and cover the cost of the report. Otherwise, our 
investigator agreed with the shortfalls Admiral acknowledged in its final response letter. 
Admiral identified significant shortfalls in its handling of Mr Hs claim, including delays of five 
months, lack of communication, and trying to cash settle even though repairs had already 
started. Having considered the evidence, our investigator thought an additional £1,000 
compensation was fair.
Neither Admiral nor Mr H agreed. Admiral said Mr H refused to allow it access to carry on 
with repairs unless it agreed to work on the shower room too. Mr H asked for more 
compensation considering the overall ongoing poor claim handling.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mr H raised three complaints with Admiral. My decision here is about the events from 
September 2020 until Admiral issued its final response letter of March 2021. Ive also 
considered the events from March 2021 to November 2021 because Admiral gave 
permission to our service to include the outstanding dispute about the shower room.  
Shower room
Mr H complains that Admiral shouldve repaired his shower room because it mustve 
suffered similar flood damage to the rest of the property. He doesnt want to find damage in 
the future which shouldve been addressed as part of this claim. Admiral says theres no 
evidence of any damage to repair.
Looking at the evidence and the damage caused to other parts of his property, I can see why 
Mr H would be concerned that there is hidden damage. However, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that there is. Ive looked at the expert report Mr H provided, which says:
cannot assess that there is no damage to the plasterboard nor to the adhesive holding on 
the tiles on the wall. Upon inspecting the floor tiles and wall tiles, I could see no sign of 
cracked grout. This would initially suggest that the walls and floor are sounds. However, 
due to the amount of water that was in the room, it is impossible to determine if this is the 
case.
The report goes on to recommend stripping back to bare walls and floor, inspecting, and 
reinstating using new materials. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think its reasonable to expect Admiral to search 
for damage when theres no outward sign of any. Its Mr Hs responsibility to show that 
damage has occurred and according to his experts report there is nothing to indicate that it 
has (or hasnt). Should Admiral cover the cost of the investigation and it turns out theres no 
damage, the repairs with new materials would constitute betterment. The policy provides 
cover for an insured event that is proven, not a possibility, however likely it may be to Mr H.
Therefore, Im satisfied that its reasonable for Admiral to complete work on the shower room 
wall only if evidence becomes available to show that the flood caused damage that needs 
repairing. As it stands, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more in respect of the 
shower room.
Compensation
Both parties agree that there were service shortfalls which warrant compensation. Admiral 
paid £750 compensation to Mr H in recognition of delays, missed appointments and the way 
the claim was handled overall. Our investigator proposed a further £1,000 but Mr H didnt 
think it went far enough.
Ive looked at the timeline of events and the evidence provided to decide whether Admirals 
offer was fair, and whether Mr Hs claim that an additional £1,000 wasn't enough is 
reasonable. Theres no dispute about the shortfalls Mr H experienced in Admirals handling 
of his claim, so I wont discuss each point in detail: instead Ill list some of the main points:Mr H and Ms S were concerned about a further winter in a home which they found 
uncomfortable and, in parts, unusable because of outstanding repairs, such as a hole 
in their living room ceiling. 
Both Mr H and Ms S are considered vulnerable, with health issues that may be 
affected by the adverse conditions their home was left in.
Although loss of rental income for their holiday home isnt covered under the policy, 
the property wasn't available to them for their personal use either.
Admiral was responsible for at least five months of avoidable delays.
Admiral failed to respond to Mr H with updates when he asked for them.
It missed numerous appointments.
When it seemed progress would be made after Admiral visited again to assess the 
repairs, two months passed without any further contact.
Having considered the overall handling of this claim, and the distress, inconvenience and 
frustration Mr H and Ms S report experiencing, Im satisfied that an additional £1,000 
compensation, as proposed by our investigator is warranted. While Mr H thinks it should be 
more, I must make it clear that the compensation Ill require here is in recognition of the 
issues between September 2020 and November 2021, as explained above. Its likely Mr H 
will, understandably, be thinking about the whole experience, including any ongoing issues. 
But I havent taken them into consideration when deciding on the compensation in respect of 
this complaint.
Admiral didnt think further compensation was necessary. It pointed out that Mr H wouldnt let 
it back into his property until it agreed to complete the additional repairs to his shower room. 
Mr H disagrees.
Ive listened to the recording of the call when this matter was discussed. Mr H said he 
wanted the kitchen work doing with the hallway repairs because it was all part of the same 
room. He also complained that he didnt have a schedule of work, so he didnt know what 
was being done. At no point in the call did Mr H say Admiral couldnt complete repairs unless 
it agreed to repair his shower room. Therefore, I cant agree that Admiral was prevented 
from completing repairs because of the dispute over the shower room.
In summary, theres no dispute that Admiral didnt handle the claim as well as Mr H couldve 
expected and that caused avoidable delays, inconvenience, confusion about how the claim 
was being handled, and distress. Admiral has already paid £750 compensation in 
recognition of some of those shortfalls, but Im satisfied an additional £1,000 is fair. While Mr 
H doesnt think thats enough, I should remind him that the compensation is for the shortfalls 
from September 2020 to November 2021, and it doesnt address any ongoing issues.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
pay Mr H and Ms S compensation of £1,000 in addition to the £750 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman