Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr A complains that a training course he paid for through a finance agreement with 
Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd was misrepresented to him.
What happened
Mr A signed a fixed sum loan agreement in September 2018 to pay for a level 3 electrician 
training course. 
In October 2019 he complained to the course provider that hed been enrolled on a weekday 
course when hed requested a weekend course. The course provider agreed that its 
salesperson had ticked the wrong box and swapped him to its weekend course. But Mr A 
later realised that the weekend course still required him to attend certain practical sessions 
during the week, which he couldnt do. He contacted Caledonian Consumer Finance to make 
a claim for misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
Caledonian Consumer Finance didnt agree that the course had been misrepresented and it 
said that Mr A had been moved to the weekend course in October 2019 which should have 
resolved his complaint. It said the provider had offered to extend the training contract for 
12 months, as a gesture of goodwill, to allow Mr A to complete the course. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the course 
had been misrepresented and that Mr A would not have signed up to a weekday course, or a 
weekend course, if hed realised that not all the practical training sessions took place at 
weekends. She thought Caledonian Consumer Finance should refund all payments made 
plus interest.
Caledonian Consumer Finance didnt agree. It said, in summary, that 
The course provider has offered to extend the course for 12 months and to refund Mr A 
the cost of the level 3 training (which requires the weekday attendance). Hed receive a 
refund of £2,280 and would qualify as a level 2 electrician on completion of the course.
It's not possible to know what was said during the sales meeting.
The salesperson made an error and ticked the wrong box. But all other contractual 
documentation showed that Mr A had been enrolled on the weekday course.
The error or confusion was resolved in October 2019 when Mr A was moved to the 
weekend course. So he was put back in the position he would have been in had no error 
been made.
Mr A hasnt suffered any detriment and has benefitted from the course as hes completed 
21 assignments.
DRN-3191385Page 2 of 3What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here from all parties but Im 
not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering whether Caledonian Consumer Finance treated Mr A fairly, I need to have 
regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time. In this case, relevant law includes Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, amongst others. Importantly, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party 
might have under Section 75. Rather, when I think about what a fair way is to resolve Mr As 
complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, but that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach 
the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from a court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr A has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier of the training course, he can also bring that claim against 
Caledonian Consumer Finance provided certain conditions are met.
Mr A says the course was misrepresented to him. He told us he thought he had enrolled for 
a weekend course. Both parties appear to agree that, because of a mistake by the 
salesperson, he was wrongly enrolled on the weekday course.
But, as Caledonian Consumer Finance has pointed out, this ought to have been resolved in 
October 2019 when the supplier agreed to swap Mr A onto the course he thought hed 
enrolled for. But this didnt resolve things for Mr A. This is because he later realised that 
even the weekday course for the level 3 qualification included four weekday weeks of 
practical training. 
From what Mr A has told us about his personal and work circumstances, its clear it was 
important for him that any practical training took place at the weekend. Whilst I cant be 
certain exactly what was discussed during the meeting when the course was sold to him, Im 
satisfied this issue was sufficiently important for him that he would have told the 
salesperson. The course he thought he was enrolling on was called Full Scope Electrician 
Weekend Practical Version. The title of the course suggests that all practical work will take 
place at the weekend. And I think the salesperson either confirmed this or didnt tell Mr A 
that some of the course would take place on weekdays. And I can see that although it is set 
out in the course information, it is not until page 17 of the 24-page document. For this 
reason, I think the course was misrepresented to him.Page 3 of 3This means that, even though the training supplier corrected its mistake of enrolling Mr A on 
the wrong course (by swapping him to the weekend course in October 2019), that weekend 
course had been misrepresented to him. And if it hadnt been misrepresented, I think it more 
likely than not that Mr A would not have enrolled and paid for a course which he knew he 
could never complete.
It follows Mr A should be put in the position hed be in if he hadnt enrolled for the course. 
The training supplier says Mr A could obtain his level 2 qualification because this does not 
require any weekday training. And its offered to refund £2,280 so that he only pays for the 
cost of a level 2 course. But Mr A has rejected this offer  he wanted to complete a level 3 
course.
Caledonian Consumer Finance says Mr A has had some benefit from the course, but I dont 
agree. He has used the reading material and completed several online assessments, but 
these alone do not give him any qualification. So, whilst he will have gained some 
knowledge, this hasnt moved him any closer to gaining a qualification  any new provider he 
chooses is likely to want him to complete the entire course, including the modules hes 
already studied. So hes not in any better position than he was in before he started. 
Ive also taken into consideration that Mr A took a long time to bring his complaint. But thats 
because he didnt realise the course had been misrepresented to him until he was asked to 
arrange the practical training on a weekday. He complained to the supplier in the first 
instance, and he then sought guidance from Citizens Advice, before realising he could bring 
a complaint against Caledonian Consumer Finance, as the finance provider. Overall, I dont 
think the time Mr A took to bring his complaint makes a difference to the outcome.
I agree with our investigator that the fair and reasonable resolution here is for 
Caledonian Consumer Finance to refund the payments Mr A has made, plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1. Refund all Mr As payments made to date towards his finance agreement for the course,
including any deposit paid.
2. Pay 8% simple interest on the refund, calculated from the date the payments were made
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman