DRN-3787342
The complaint
Mr H complains he was given unsuitable advice by Colonial Mutual, now Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), in 1992 and 1998 about a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2022. Ive recapped here what I said about 
what had happened and my provisional findings. 
In October 1992 Mr H was advised to take out a FSAVC policy. At the time he was 28 and a
teacher. The FSAVC policy commenced in November 1992. Mr H paid the premiums of £35
pm until August 1994 when he asked for the premiums to be frozen. After a year the policy
was made paid up.
In March 1998 Mr H had further advice from a different Colonial Mutual adviser who
recommended that Mr H recommence payments to the FSAVC. From April 1998 Mr H paid
premiums of £32 pm until June 2005 when the policy was again made paid up.
I understand that Mr H saw a social media advert in January 2021 which raised some
concerns. Mr H complained, through his representative, to Aviva in February 2021 that hed
been given unsuitable advice in 1992 and 1998.
Aviva said the complaint about the 1992 advice had been made too late. Aviva looked into,
but didnt uphold, the complaint about the advice given in 1998.
The complaint was referred to us. Our investigator issued her view on 12 August 2022. She
agreed the complaint about the October 1992 advice had been made too late. But Aviva had
consented to us dealing with the later advice and she upheld that complaint.
Mr Hs representative didnt agree the complaint about the 1992 advice had been made too
late. The representative said, if the 1998 sale was non compliant and the adviser hadnt
done enough, that further advice wouldnt have made Mr H aware he had cause for
complaint about the earlier advice. His complaint wasnt that he hadnt been made aware of
alternative products but that the FSAVC wasnt suitable for him. There was nothing in the
1998 file to draw to Mr Hs attention to the possibility that the FSAVC had been mis sold in
1992. The representative queried why Mr H wouldve increased his payments to a product
knowing it had been previously mis sold.
The representative said that the 1998 sale was after Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) which
made it clear that discussion - rather than just the provision of information - was required.
That discussion needed to be around the critical issue of the difference in charges and the
effect that would have on retirement provision. There was very little recorded about what
was discussed and the booklet wasnt sufficient.
Aviva commented that wed said the 1992 sale as out of jurisdiction as Mr Hs complaint was
that he was unaware of in house alternatives. But hed been made aware of those options in
1998. As the complaint about the 1998 advice was the same, then three year rule also
applied to that advice.
Aviva disagreed with what the investigator had said about why the complaint about the 1998
advice should be upheld. Wed said we couldnt see any actual reference to charges being
discussed in the suitability letter or other sales information. But RU20 said advisers should:
draw the consumers attention to the AVC (Additional Voluntary Contributions) plan 
that was done and was the reason wed said the 1992 sale was out of time;
discuss the generic differences between the FSAVC and the AVC  the sales file
confirmed that. RU20 didnt say that details of what was discussed must be recorded;
direct the consumer to his employer or the occupational scheme for more information
on the AVC options  the booklet provided to Mr H did that.
RU20 also said that IFAs should discuss the specific differences between AVC and FSAVC
options with the consumer, including the difference in charges and expenses. But that didnt
apply here as the adviser was a tied agent, not an IFA.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But Ive considered jurisdiction first  whether Mr Hs complaints have been made in time.
My understanding is that Aviva consented to us looking into the 1998 advice but not the
advice given in 1992. But I note, from Avivas comments in response to the investigators
view, that Aviva suggests the complaint about the 1998 advice might be time barred too.
As the investigator explained, were governed by the DISP (Dispute Resolution) rules set out
in the regulators Handbook. The applicable provision is DISP 2.8.2R which (in so far as is
relevant here) says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2R
 was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
Mr Hs complaint, about advice given in 1992 and 1998, was made in February 2021. Thats
more than six years after the event. So his complaint will only have been made in time if it
was made within three years of when he became aware (or reasonably ought to havebecome aware) he had cause for complaint.
Aviva says Mr Hs complaint about the 1992 advice is that he was unaware of the in house
options until the second sale in 1998. But thats only part of Mr Hs complaint. His overall
complaint about the 1992 advice is that it wasnt suitable. Given that the FSAVC was
recommended again in 1998, I dont immediately see why Mr H wouldve known the earlier
recommendation wasnt suitable. Id have thought the further recommendation, in effect,
endorsed the earlier advice. I also agree with the representatives point that Mr H wouldnt
have recommenced his payments to the FSAVC if hed had any reason to believe the earlier
advice had been unsuitable (although I dont think Mr H increased his payments  in 1992 he
paid £35 pm whereas in 1998 it was £32 pm).
The position might be different if it was clear that in 1998 Mr H had been made aware, not
only that there were in house options but that the charges for AVCs were likely to be
cheaper. Hed then have known, not only that there were alternatives to the FSAVC, but that
there was a cheaper option too. I think that reasonably ought to have made him think about
why that more cost effective option hadnt been recommended in 1992.
I know Avivas position is that the 1998 sale was compliant and Mr H was given sufficient
information about the comparative benefits of in house AVCs and FSAVCs. But, as Ive gone
on to explain below, Im not satisfied that was the case. So, in considering if Mr Hs
complaint about the 1992 advice has been made in time, I cant say he had all the
information he needed in 1998 to become aware that the 1992 advice may not have been
suitable.
So Ive gone on to consider both complaints, about the 1992 advice and the 1998 advice.
In 1992 a tied adviser (who could only recommend products provided by the company they
worked for) had to follow the rules set in 1988 by LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit
Trust Regulatory Organisation). Amongst other things, the LAUTRO Code of Conduct said
advisers should exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. And
have regard to any rights under an occupational scheme and give consumers all relevant
information. Wed expect a tied adviser to know, for members of an occupational pension
(and Mr H was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme), in house options would be
available. Wed also expect the generic benefits of the in house options, including that AVCs
could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC, to be mentioned.
Theres no suitability letter for the 1992 sale as, at the time, one wasnt required. Theres a
fact find which Mr H signed on 20 October 1992 but it doesnt record that in house options
were discussed. Aviva hasnt provided anything else (for example a file or meeting note)
which might show that Mr H was made aware of in house options and given information
about those. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 1992 sale was compliant.
The regulatory position for the later sale was the same, except that a suitability letter was
required. The 1998 sale was after RU20, issued in May 1996. But that didnt introduce new
requirements and just restated the existing position. It said tied advisers should draw the 
consumer's attention to the in house alternative; discuss the generic differences between the
two routes; and direct the consumer to his employer or the occupational scheme for more
information on the in house option.
Aviva says the adviser did all that and refers to the signed fact find that was completed on 9
March 1998, the suitability letter sent on 6 April 1998 and the booklet that was given to Mr H.
I agree that in house alternatives were mentioned. The fact find records that Mr H was a
member of his employers pension scheme and he was aware he could pay AVCs to the
scheme. And the suitability letter records he was proceeding with the FSAVC after receivingan explanation of the comparative benefits of in house AVCs and FSAVC plans and hed
received written material summarising those.
But whats unclear is exactly what may have been said. I understand Avivas point that RU20
didnt specify that details of what was discussed must be recorded. But the adviser was
required to discuss the generic differences between the FSAVC and the AVC and Aviva
needs to show that was done. So exactly what was discussed is relevant.
Aviva has also suggested that part of RU20 applied to only to IFAs, not tied advisers as was
the case here. I dont agree but in any event the generic differences between in house AVCs
and FSAVC included the difference in charges and expenses. RU20 notes that as being the
difference likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greatest benefits.
Its possible that the adviser did have a detailed discussion with Mr H about the merits of
FSAVCs versus in house AVCs. But, without any further details as to exactly what was said
and what information was given to Mr H, its difficult to know if the discussion was fair and
balanced and covered important generic points of difference, such as the fact that the
charges for in house AVCs were likely to be lower.
Ive considered the booklet  Improving your retirement benefits  which Mr H was given.
But I dont think it adds much. It clearly sets out there are two ways of making AVCs  in
house AVCs or a FSAVC. Added years are detailed too. The section about charges referred
Mr H to his personal illustration for the FSAVC for details of the benefits included and the
cost. About charges for in house AVCs the booklet said it might be possible to obtain an
illustration. But theres no indication that the charges for in house AVCs are likely to be
lower. I dont think it was sufficient for Mr H to be referred to his employer or the scheme for
details of the charges that might apply to the in house AVCs.
Under the heading, Itss your choice the booklet recommended that the benefits and
options outlined for the FSAVC be compared with those available under the employers in
house AVC scheme. It added that, in particular, portability, contribution flexibility, investment
choice and fund performance should be considered. Charges arent referred to.
And, as far as any discussions are concerned, I dont think its unreasonable to assume that
theyd have been in line with the written literature. If that didnt mention that the charges for
the in house AVCs would likely be cheaper, its perhaps unlikely that wouldve featured in
any conversation either.
All in all I cant say Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the generic differences
between in house options and FSAVCs, including the difference in charges, were clearly
covered and that Mr H was in a position to make an informed choice.
Like the investigator, I think, if Mr H had been told that the charges for in house AVCs would
likely be lower, I think its likely hed have chosen to make in house AVCs instead of setting
up the FSAVC in 1992 and recommencing contributions to it in 1998. Theres nothing to 
indicate he wasnt going to remain in the teaching profession and so his membership of the
Teachers Pension Scheme and his ability to continue to pay AVCs would likely continue.
For the reasons Ive indicated I think the complaint about the 1992 advice isnt time barred
by virtue of the 1998 advice. And Im upholding the complaint about both the 1992 and the
1998 advice. Im not satisfied the recommendations to set up and restart the FSAVC were
suitable.
Mr Hs representative accepted my provisional decision (and agreed that when Mr H had 
recommenced his contributions to the FSAVC in 1998 the payments were at a slightly lower level than previously). 
Aviva also accepted my provisional decision. It was still of the opinion that current standards 
were being applied and which, when the policy was taken out, would never have been met. 
But, in the interests of resolving the complaint, Aviva was prepared to accept my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and Aviva have accepted my provisional decision. I dont have anything to add to 
my provisional findings which Ive set out in full above and which form part of this decision. 
Putting things right
Im repeating what I said in my provisional decision about how Aviva needs to put things 
right for Mr H. The redress Ive set out applies to both the 1992 and the 1998 sales.
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must undertake the redress 
calculation Ive set out above and pay any redress due. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman