DRN-2863350
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his bank accounts.
What happened
Mr O had an account with Lloyds. In August 2020, the bank decided to review Mr Os 
account and wrote to him asking him to provide information about how he was operating his 
account. Following the review Lloyds decided to close Mr Os account and wrote to him on in 
October 2020 giving him 60 days notice. The bank sent a cheque for the closing balance to 
Mr Os address. 
Mr O says he wasnt able to respond to the banks request for information within the 
timeframe the bank provided as he was overseas. And he couldnt get back to the UK due to 
the pandemic travel restrictions around the world at the time. Hes explained that he only 
became aware of the banks request when he managed to get back to the UK in late 2020 
and discovered the bank had already closed his account. 
On his return to the UK Mr O provided the bank with the information it had requested and 
asked them to reconsider its decision to close his account. Lloyds reviewed the information 
but declined to reopen Mr Os account. The bank said it had reviewed and closed Mr Os 
account in line with  the terms and conditions. Unhappy with this response, Mr O brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. She said the bank hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had closed his account. And had sent Mr O letters to his address to let him 
know he needed to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr O disagreed. He said he was trapped overseas due to the pandemic so hadnt seen any 
of the letters Lloyds had sent to him. So, he thinks the bank treated him unfairly in closing his 
account, especially as hes since provided all the information the bank wanted. He wants 
Lloyds to reopen his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Lloyds review of Mr Os account. Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations, which can include 
asking customers for more information about money coming into and going out of an 
account. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Lloyds acted in accordance with 
these obligations when it reviewed Mr Os account. And it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions. So, I cant say the bank have done anything wrong when it 
decided to review Mr Os account.
During the review, I can see that the bank wrote to Mr O in August 2020 at his address 
asking him for information about certain transactions on his account. The bank gave Mr O 14 
days to provide the information. Unfortunately, because Mr O wasnt in the UK, he didnt get 
the letter at the time, and so he didnt respond to the banks request. Lloyds then completed 
its review and following this it decided to close Mr Os account. Lloyds wrote to Mr O in 
October 2020 giving him two months notice.
Mr O says the bank hasnt treated him fairly when it decided to close his account. Hes 
pointed out that he was trapped overseas due to the world wide pandemic travel restrictions. 
So, he didnt have a chance to answer the banks request. But he gave the bank the 
information it wanted when he got back to the UK. So, he thinks Lloyds should reopen his 
account.
The timing of Lloyds actions was unfortunate  Mr O wasnt in the UK  So, I can understand 
why he found this experience with Lloyds inconvenient and upsetting. And why he feels the 
bank hasnt treated him fairly. But as Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations  and Im satisfied that is what Lloyds 
were doing when it wrote to Mr O asking him for information. I can also see that Lloyds did 
review the information Mr O eventually provided. But it declined to reopen Mr Os account. 
Generally, its for banks to decide whether or not to provide  or to continue to provide  
banking facilities to customers. And I note that Lloyds gave 60 days notice, as Id expect. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Os account state Lloyds can close the account for any 
reason by providing two months notice. Whilst I appreciate Mr O didnt receive this letter 
until he returned to the UK, the bank wrote to him at the address it had on record. So, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds treated Mr O fairly when it closed his account. And I wont be asking the 
bank to reopen the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman