DRN-3589214
The complaint
Mr T and Miss K have complained about their car insurer Covea Insurance plc in respect of 
its actions in handling a claim they made after they were involved in an accident which was 
not their fault.
What happened
Mr T and Miss K were involved in an accident in 2018. Mr T, a named driver on Miss Ks 
policy with Covea, was driving. They spoke to Covea and it gave them the number for a 
solicitor which Covea said would handle their personal injury claims under their policy. 
Covea later agreed to a 50/50 liability settlement with the insurer for the other driver, and the 
solicitor took note of this in respect of Mr Ts personal injury claim (with Miss Ks claim being 
handled by a different solicitor).
Covea later accepted that it had made an error in agreeing to split liability. It accepted that 
Mr T had not been at fault for the accident. It said it would cover any short-fall arising for 
Mr Ts personal injury claim, caused by the 50/50 agreement. It also said it would mark the 
claim as no fault, allow the no claims discount and recalculate the premium charged on that 
basis. Covea said it would also pay £100 compensation.
Mr T and Miss K were pleased by this. But they were concerned about issues that theyd 
been having with Mr Ts solicitor. Covea advised that whilst it underwrites the legal 
protection cover Mr T and Miss K have access to under their car insurance policy, Mr Ts 
solicitor had not been instructed under the legal protection cover. Mr T and Miss K were 
shocked to hear this, they believed Mr Ts solicitor had been appointed under their policy. 
They were concerned about everything and asked Covea if it would help them change 
solicitor. Covea said it would not. However, Covea accepted it had misled Mr T and Miss K 
about the nature of the solicitor and to resolve that it would pay them £150 compensation 
and refund the £30.00 cost for the legal protection cover. Mr T and Miss K thought that was 
wholly insufficient as they were now faced with having to either keep using a solicitor they 
had no faith in, or pay from their own pocket for alternative legal representation.
Mr T and Miss K complained to us. Our Investigator felt that Coveas resolutions put forward 
in respect of its error in agreeing split liability for the claim were fair and reasonable. She felt 
it should implement them. But she felt its suggested compensation and reimbursement of the 
legal protection fee did not go far enough to mitigate the consequences of it having misled 
Mr T and Miss K. So she felt Covea should, in effect, be arranging to assist Mr T as if the 
legal protection cover was in place and paying £350 compensation, as well as still returning 
the £30.00 fee. 
Mr T and Miss K felt the compensation was still insufficient. Miss K told our Investigator that 
her job had been affected by all of this. They said Covea and the solicitor had worked 
hand-in-hand and it had been impossible to get straight answers out of either of them  
which had made it very difficult to complain. They said the cost of the work the solicitor had 
done already on Mr Ts claim shouldnt be taken into account under the legal protection 
cover (which has a limit). Our Investigator explained that where Miss K had been acting as 
Mr Ts representative, we couldnt take her upset into account. She also said that she 
couldnt fairly direct Covea to not take the solicitors costs already occurred into account  if 
Mr T and Miss K felt costs had been applied unfairly, theyd need to challenge them in the 
usual way.
Covea was also unhappy about the findings. It said it had followed procedures when 
arranging contact between Mr T and the solicitor in question. And its policy wording is clear 
about how the legal protection cover works. Covea said Miss K always knew there was legal 
protection cover on the policy and she could have contacted the administrator for that cover 
at anytime had she wanted to pursue a claim in that respect. It said if the solicitor hadnt 
followed procedure or had failed Mr T in some way, that was not for it to answer for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator. In short I think Covea let Mr T and Miss K 
down, that it has admitted it let them down, and has not done enough to make up for the 
consequences of the admitted failures. 
In saying that I note that during the course of our complaint Covea has sought  to change its 
position somewhat on whether or not, in respect of Mr T and Miss K having been misled 
about the solicitor they were put in contact with, a failure actually occurred. But on that note, 
I also agree with our Investigator, I think its most likely Covea did fail them. 
For the avoidance of doubt I do think Covea should do everything it has already agreed to 
do. It has clearly, and without any later prevarication, accepted that it shouldnt have agreed 
to split liability of this claim. So it must, as closely as reasonably possible, put Mr T and 
Miss K back in the position they would have been in but for that error. The actions Covea 
has agreed to take, in my view, fairly and reasonably do that. And the compensation it has 
offered is, I think, fair and reasonable too. So Ill be making awards in all those respects. 
And returning to the issue of the solicitor, Miss K was told during her initial call with Covea 
that the solicitor she was being given the details of would be acting in respect of the personal 
injury claim under the policy. Therefore, all along Miss K has believed that was the case. 
And that solicitor is named in the legal protection cover which Miss K could have benefitted, 
and indeed thought she was benefitting, from. However, Covea then told Mr T and Miss K 
that the solicitor was not acting under that policy. And the administrator for the policy said it 
would no longer accept a claim due to late notification. This left Mr T and Miss K at an 
impasse  unhappy with their solicitor but unable to change without incurring significant 
costs. A position they would not have been in if Miss K had been given correct information 
about the solicitor at the outset.
I have to note here that Covea, during our involvement, has argued that the solicitor is acting 
under the legal protection policy. But Im not persuaded that is the case. The evidence on 
Coveas file doesnt suggest that and Covea itself has previously accepted, on more than 
one occasion, including within a final response, that it misled Mr T and Miss K in this respect. 
And if the legal protection were in place the administrator would not have responded as it did 
and Covea could have agreed to funding the cost of Mr T and Miss Ks own solicitor. So it 
either failed them in refusing to do that, or it refused because the solicitor was not acting 
under the legal protection cover. 
Which only serves to bring me back to the issue of why was the legal protection cover not 
being utilised. Covea said Miss K could have activated that if she had wanted to. Miss K 
says that is all she wanted  and this is reflected by the conversation that took place with Covea to notify it of the accident. But as a result of that conversation Miss K was left with the 
understanding by Covea that she was going to be contacting the solicitor which was named 
in the legal protection cover, which would be acting for her under that cover. She had no 
reason to question that. Im satisfied that Coveas failure to be clear with Miss K in 2018, 
caused Mr Ts personal injury claim to be progressed by a solicitor outside of the legal 
protection cover available on the policy. And that has directly led to Mr T being in a worse 
position than he otherwise should have been in. 
So Ill be requiring Covea to act as though the legal protection cover were in place as that is 
what is fairly and reasonably required to correct that prejudiced position. If Mr T and Miss K 
accept my decision then it will have to do that, and how it chooses to manage that, will be up 
to it. And I cant fairly direct it to ignore costs already incurred, although some of course may 
be met or recovered from the other party as a result of the court claim. Work has been done 
by the solicitor on Mr Ts claim and Im not in a position to judge the worth or efficacy of that 
work. There are ways that Mr T and Miss K can challenge the costs charged if they wish to. 
I will also be requiring Covea to pay a further £350 compensation. This to make up for the 
upset caused to Mr T. He has had worry and concern because of the position Coveas failure 
left him in. Not least as hes had to keep dealing with a solicitor he has lost faith in. 
I appreciate Miss K has been caused worry too, but I cant take that into account in respect 
of mistakes Covea made that affected Mr Ts claim. I know they are also both worried about 
how all of this will ultimately affect Mr Ts injury claim. But that hasnt yet progressed to court, 
so it isnt clear it will be negatively affected. I know Covea failed Mr T and Miss K  but 
I cant comment about how the solicitor acted. Whilst I know Mr T and Miss K believe they 
had bad service from both of them, that doesnt mean they were working together. And Im 
satisfied that whilst there is clearly some connection between Covea and the solicitor, this 
does not amount to the solicitor working for Covea under its authority. So I cant consider the 
solicitors actions, including any failures that may have occurred, as being those of Covea. 
Im satisfied that £350 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the 
distress and inconvenience Covea has caused by its failings.
Putting things right
I require Covea to:
Pay 50% of Mr Ts personal injury claim that wouldve been paid by the other drivers
 insurer if the claim had been 100% non-fault.
Mark the claim as non-fault.
Allow the no claims bonus on the basis that its a non-fault claim.
Once the claim has closed, recalculate the premiums charged on the policy from 
September 2019 based on a non-fault claim having occurred and the no claims bonus 
applying, refunding any over-payment Miss K has paid.
Act as though the legal protection cover on the policy is in place, with all of its terms, 
condition and rights applying  if it wishes to do that by actually implementing the cover 
that is up to it but, regardless of how this is done, Mr T should be afforded everything he 
is entitled to under the policy (as was in place in 2018 at the time of the accident), 
including the option of changing the solicitor representing him. It should make any 
necessary arrangements without delay, as I understand this is a time sensitive situation 
with a crucial court date set for November 2022. 
Pay £30.00 as reimbursement of the legal expenses fee. 
Pay a total of £450 compensation. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman