DRN-2779423
The complaint
Mr R complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (Halifax) hasnt transferred 
the correct balance of his sons child trust fund (CTF) into his junior ISA (JISA).
What happened
Mr R opened a Halifax CTF for his son some years ago. Money paid into the CTF was 
invested in the stock market, it was not held as cash.  
Years later, Halifax wrote to Mr R to explain that it would no longer be offering CTF 
accounts. The bank offered him the option of transferring the CTF elsewhere. But Mr R 
opted instead to stay with Halifax. He asked for the balance of the CTF to be transferred into 
a JISA, a cash-based account. 
In response to his request, Halifax sent Mr R a letter dated 21 March 2020 confirming the 
transfer and enclosing a transfer-out statement. The statement notes that as of 29 August 
2019, the investment was valued at £5,045.77. 
When the transfer went through, Mr R was upset to learn that only £3,674.71 was credited to 
the new JISA. He discussed the matter with a member of branch staff and came away with 
the understanding that the full amount would be due to his son on his eighteenth birthday. 
Mr R complained to Halifax. He wanted the full £5,045.77 hed been expecting to be paid 
into the JISA as soon as possible.
Halifax rejected Mr Rs complaint. It told Mr R that his sons trust fund had fallen in value due 
to movements in the stock market. So the £3,674.71 paid into the JISA was the correct 
amount. In addition to this, the bank explained its branch staff recalled telling Mr R his son 
would receive the balance of the JISA on his eighteenth birthday, not that he would receive 
the full £5,045.77 he wanted. 
Mr R was unhappy with Halifaxs response to his complaint, so he referred the matter to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They felt the amount credited to the JISA was 
correct, and that Halifax had been reasonably clear with Mr R about why this was less than 
hed expected. As Mr R did not accept our investigators findings, the matter has been 
referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules require Halifax to treat its customers fairly. And if I was persuaded the bank had 
failed to pay Mr R an amount that was fairly due to him, I may require the bank to 
compensate him accordingly. 
Mr Rs complaint is that he believes his sons CTF was worth £5,045.77. And so because 
Halifax only transferred £3,674.71 into the JISA he opened, Mr R feels the bank still owes 
the difference between these two figures. But it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Halifax to pay 
this, and Ill explain why. 
To start with, I think it would be helpful for me to explain how the investment Mr R has made 
for his son functioned. And what his request to transfer his money from the CTF into the 
JISA actually involved. 
The cash Mr R has paid into his sons CTF was used to purchase units in an index which 
tracked the average share price of some of the UKs biggest companies. That means Mr Rs 
cash hasnt accumulated in the same way it would if it was paid into a traditional deposit 
savings account. Instead, his cash was being spent on new units each time it was paid in, 
meaning hed continually accumulate more units which could vary in price day to day. In 
order to transfer the contents of the CTF into the JISA, Halifax had to sell the units Mr R had 
been buying for the price they were worth the day they were sold, and then transfer the cash 
proceeds of that sale into the new account. 
Having read his complaint in full, it seems to me that Mr R had perhaps not fully understood 
this at the outset of asking Halifax to encash his investment. And in my view, his complaint 
flows from this misunderstanding.  
We know that Mr R made the decision to encash his investment after Halifax had written to 
him and explained it would no longer offer CTF accounts. Our investigator asked Mr R why 
he chose to sell the investments and keep the cash with Halifax, as opposed to leaving the 
investment intact and transferring it to a new provider. Mr R has said he doesnt fully recall, 
but that it seemed like the right thing to do at the time. 
Whatever was guiding Mr R at the time, theres no suggestion that his decision was 
motivated by the investment itself, its performance, or the position of the financial markets at 
that point. 
Having made the decision to remain with Halifax, Mr R was sent a transfer-out statement. 
Amongst other things, this statement, which is dated 21 March 2020, confirms that: 
The value of his investment on 29 August 2019 was £5,045.77
The value of the investment is not guaranteed 
The daily price of Mr Rs units is available on Halifaxs website 
Mr R concluded from this statement that Halifax would be paying £5,045.77 into his JISA. 
And its true that his investment was once worth this amount. But that was on 29 August 
2019, around six months prior to the statement being sent to Mr R. 
Halifaxs statement didnt include an up to date valuation of the investment. But if it had 
done, Mr R wouldve seen that the value on the date the statement was sent was likely to 
have been a lot closer to the figure he ultimately received, £3,674.71.  
Its highly unfortunate that Mr Rs decision to encash his investment coincided with the onset 
of the global pandemic. Investments like Mr Rs were severely impacted by the pandemic. 
And this is reflected in the fall from August 2019 when his investment was valued, to March 
2020 when it was sold. This reduction in value isnt any sort of administrative error or a 
mistake on Halifaxs part. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied the amount Halifax 
credited to Mr Rs JISA was a true reflection of the value of his units on the day they were 
sold. But whilst theres been no mistake in the amount thats been paid to Mr R, Im conscious he 
feels Halifax gave him an expectation that he was due to receive more. And Halifaxs rules 
require that when its communicating with its customers, it does so in a way thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. So Ive considered whether the banks done so in its interactions with Mr 
R. 
Ive studied the transfer-out statement dated 21 March 2020 carefully, as Im conscious that 
its this document, and Mr Rs interpretation of it, which this complaint seems to centre on. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Halifaxs communications here meet with the required standard. 
The statement is clear that its valuation is from more than six months previously. Its similarly 
clear that the value isnt guaranteed, and that daily pricing information is available on 
Halifaxs website. 
I could agree that it wouldve been more helpful for Halifax to have included a recent 
valuation of the CTF when it sent the statement to Mr R. But the fact that it did not isnt 
unclear or misleading in my view. The statement is clear enough that its valuation isnt 
current, and it gave Mr R an indication that he could look online for a more up to date price 
for his units. Ultimately, Im satisfied that the banks communications with Mr R in this 
statement have met with the required standard.  
Part of Mr Rs complaint is that when he followed this matter up with Halifax, its staff gave 
him the impression that the £5,045.77 hed been expecting would be paid, but that this 
wouldnt happen until his sons eighteenth birthday. Halifax denies that it said this. Its said 
its staff recall telling Mr R that the balance of the JISA would be paid to his son at that point, 
but not the amount he was hoping for. 
Theres no record of precisely what was or wasnt said during this interaction, but having 
considered the matter as a whole, it doesnt seem likely to me that Halifax wouldve told Mr 
R that his son was due the £5,045.77. As Ive already established, this wasnt the value of 
Mr Rs investment at the time it was sold, and it seems improbable that the bank couldve 
mistaken it to be so. 
On the whole, Im satisfied that Halifax has treated Mr R fairly throughout its handling of the 
closure of his CTF. And when its needed to communicate with him, its done so in a way 
which was clear and not misleading.   
It follows therefore, that I will not be upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman