DRN-3535512
The complaint
Mr S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited treated him unfairly 
when his pet insurance policy was cancelled by mistake.
What happened
Mr Ss policy was due to renew on 1 March 2022. He didnt want the policy to renew, so in 
mid-February 2022, he logged on to his on-line account and cancelled the policy. Mr S 
understood the policy would be cancelled from renewal, but the policy was cancelled 
immediately, leaving him without cover.
Mr S contacted Red Sands via the on-line live chat function and asked for the policy to be 
reinstated. Red Sands told him reinstatement wasnt possible after a policy had been 
cancelled, and a new policy would need to be taken out.
Mr S complained to Red Sands via email, but his email was missed, and his complaint went 
unanswered until he made further contact. Red Sands apologised for missing his complaint 
email, but it clarified the policy couldnt have been reinstated.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Mr S said the policy was wrongly cancelled and it 
wasnt explained the cancellation would apply immediately rather than at renewal. He said 
Red Sands promised to rectify the error, but it failed to do so. He also noted Red Sands 
failed to act on his complaint.
Red Sands went on to issue a final response to the complaint. Red Sands explained Mr S 
was presented with two options when he cancelled his policy via his on-line account, to 
either turn-off auto renewal, or to cancel the policy. Mr S had selected the cancellation 
option. Red Sands offered to refund the final months premium (£34.23).
Mr S rejected Red Sands premium refund offer. In his complaint form, he noted he was 
seeking £300-£500 compensation. However, he later told us he would accept £100.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancellation and reinstatement
As I understand it, Mr S misunderstood the two options he was presented with on his on-line 
account. But even if those options could have been clearer, theres been no financial loss. 
Mr S was intending for the policy to end ten days later anyway, and fortunately he had no 
need to make a claim during those ten days he was unexpectedly without cover.
I havent seen anything that leads me to believe Red Sands made an error. Red Sands had 
followed Mr Ss on-line instruction to cancel the policy. Whilst Mr S wanted the policy to be 
reinstated for the remaining ten days of the policy term, I accept Red Sands was unable to 
do that. I dont find Red Sands did something wrong by not reinstating the policy given it 
was Mr S who cancelled it, albeit by mistake.
Red Sands offered to refund the final months premium, as a goodwill gesture. Mr S rejected 
the offer, as he was entitled to do so. In my view, Red Sands was endeavouring to treat him 
fairly by making the offer, given he cancelled the policy during the final month by mistake. 
However, because Im not persuaded Red Sands did something wrong in relation to the 
cancellation and reinstatement, Im not upholding the complaint and I make no awards.
Should Mr S now want to accept Red Sands offer, hell need to approach it directly.
Customer service
Mr S says Red Sands promised to rectify the error. However, the information provided to 
us doesnt support what he says. During the on-line live chat, the advisor explained to him 
the policy couldnt be reinstated. As a result, Mr S asked to make a complaint and he was 
given an email address to do so. Ive not seen anything that suggests he was told, at any 
stage, the policy could be reinstated.
I accept Red Sands missed Mr Ss complaint email, which has caused some inconvenience 
and frustration. But I consider Red Sands apology to be sufficient.  
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman