DRN-2059077
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy at how Black Pearl Claims Ltd (BPC) dealt with his claims for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2016, Mr U instructed BPC to make some mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf. At the time 
he instructed them, BPC were charging a success fee of 30% plus VAT of any compensation 
awarded. In July 2018 the Claims Management Regulator (CMR) - the body who regulated 
BPC at the time - introduced a fee cap for PPI claims of 20% plus VAT. In 2019 one of Mr 
Us claims was successful and he received compensation.
Mr U has complained that BPC are charging him a fee of 30% plus VAT on this claim. He 
believes that, because he signed new paperwork in July 2019, they should only charge a fee 
of 20% plus VAT.
Our investigator said the terms Mr U signed clearly said the he would be charged a fee of 
30% plus VAT. And he doesnt think that the updated Letter of Authority (LOA) Mr U signed 
in July 2019 changes this. So he thought BPC were entitled to charge the fee they did.
Mr U didnt agree with the investigator. He says that he signed a new contract in 2019, so 
the capped fee of 20% plus VAT should apply. He also believes the contract he signed was 
a pay as you go contract, which expired after the first claim BPC made for him in 2016. So 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen that Mr U instructed BPC to make PPI claims on his behalf in 2016. They made a 
claim against Lender H who, in September 2017, confirmed that Mr U had been sold PPI. 
But, in October 2017, Lender H said they couldnt proceed with the claim until Mr H visited a 
local branch to verify his identity and address. In January 2018 BPC asked Mr U if hed done 
this, and he said he had. So BPC resubmitted the claim to Lender H.
Its not clear from BPCs case notes exactly what happened next, but it seems there was an 
issue with Mr Us address, and there may also have been an issue because Mr U is not 
always known by his first name. This delayed the claim from progressing.
BPC tried to contact Mr U in early 2019 about the claim, and he replied to say he thought 
Lender H had said his claim hadnt been successful. Because this wasnt the case, and 
given the time thatd passed, Mr U signed a new LOA so Lender H would know that BPC 
were continuing to act on his behalf. In July 2019 the claim was successful and BPC 
invoiced Mr U for their success fee.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 required the CMR to introduce a fee cap for 
PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims 
management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT 
to any new clients. The fee cap wasnt retrospective and didnt apply to any existing clients.
Because Mr U was already a client of BPC, and hed instructed them well before the fee cap 
came into place, it didnt apply to him. So BPC were entitled to charge the fee Mr U agreed 
to when he instructed them in 2016. Ive seen a copy of the terms Mr U agreed to at the 
time, and they confirm that on the success of your claim, BPC will raise an invoice for 
30.0% of the total settlement received  for example, if you receive a settlement figure of 
£1,000, and invoice will be raised for £300 + VAT. So the amount BPC would charge in the 
event of a successful claim was clear.
Ive also reviewed these terms and I cant see anything to show the agreement between Mr 
U and BPC was a pay as you go type contract, or that it expired when one claim had been 
successful. The terms applied to all of the claims BPC were instructed to make for Mr U.
And the new LOA Mr U signed in 2019 doesnt alter this. The evidence Ive seen shows BPC 
had been progressing the claim against Lender H since at least 2017, and they were 
keeping Mr U reasonably updated as to what was happening. The LOA was to allow the 
claim to continue, due to the time thatd passed, and it wasnt a new contract. So BPC were 
entitled to charge the fee Mr U agreed to in 2016.
BPC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, BPCs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Just because BPCs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr U doesnt 
make their fee unjustified. And I wont be asking them to reduce or waive it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Us complaint about Black Pearl Claims 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman