DRN-4183082
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In the period between May 2022 and July 2022, Mr Os account received a number of 
transfers totalling £4,990.00. In July 2022, Santander received a notification from the bank 
which sent the payments stating that the payer of the funds from the transfer had reported 
being a victim of fraud. 
As a result of this, Santander reviewed Mr Os account, decided to close it and also record a 
fraud prevention marker against Mr O. Upon subsequently learning of the fraud marker, Mr 
O complained. Santander looked at Mr Os complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr O remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. 
This could include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that fraudulent funds entered into Mr Os account 
between May 2022 and July 2022. So the only matter which remains in dispute here is 
whether Mr O was complicit in the activity which took place. 
Mr O has told us that he received the payments for his girlfriends brother. His girlfriend 
asked him to transfer the funds to others that she owed money to and he didnt question this 
as he trusted his girlfriend. 
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. But Im afraid Mr Os version of events not being 
supported by the available evidence makes it difficult to accept what he is saying at face 
value. I say this because Mr O spoke to Santander at the time and he said that the funds 
were to purchase gift cards for his girlfriend which he did.
I realise that Mr O has said that he has issues with his memory and this is the reason for his 
inconsistency. However, while Im sorry to hear about what Mr O has told us and I dont wish 
to appear unsympathetic, his account transactions show that the fraudulent funds were 
transferred on to another account in his name. So it doesnt appear as though the funds 
were used to purchase gift cards for Mr Os girlfriend, or used to clear her debts either. And 
as Mr O appears to have been the primary beneficiary of the fraudulent funds, I cant 
reasonably say that Santander unfairly reached this conclusion.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr O was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Os account. The terms and conditions of Mr Os account 
permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Os account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Os account without notice in the way that it did. 
And Im therefore not upholding Mr Os complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr O 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman