DRN-3215472
The complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have mishandled her legal 
expenses insurance claim as they subsequently declined to cover it, despite having originally 
accepted the claim around five months prior. 
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on 
their behalf. So, any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The subject of Miss Hs property dispute is the freehold land surrounding her home, 
which is jointly owned by her and her neighbours. The policy terms and conditions 
state that Aviva will cover property disputes for the policyholders main home or other 
homes they own, where home is defined as being the house or flat and its 
outbuildings. This definition does not include surrounding land that has separate title 
deeds to the main property, so the freehold land thats the subject of Miss Hs 
property dispute does not fall within the policy definition of home. Therefore, Im 
satisfied the claim is not covered under the policy and I dont consider Aviva to have 
acted unfairly by declining it on this basis. 
Miss H originally made her claim in November 2020, and it wasnt until April 2021 
that Aviva told her it would not be covered. Miss H submitted information in 
November 2020 showing which part of the property her dispute was in relation to, 
and that it was jointly owned with her neighbours. I understand that Aviva are not 
legally trained, but it would have been apparent from Miss Hs land registry 
documents that her dispute related to land that was not part of her home and was 
jointly owned by her neighbours. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to refer the matter 
to a solicitor to determine, but this ought to have been a question put to the solicitors 
from the outset. In any event, the solicitors raised concerns about the disputed land 
in February 2021. So, Im satisfied that Aviva ought reasonably to have established 
sooner that the claim wasnt covered; they didnt require five months to arrive at this 
conclusion. 
Im satisfied this delay has ultimately caused distress and inconvenience to Miss H, 
as she was led to believe her claim would be covered and had invested much of her 
time into progressing matters in line with this expectation. Our investigator 
recommended an award of £100, which I also consider to be fair compensation in 
these circumstances. 
Miss H also doesnt think its fair for the claim to have been declined as she was not 
asked any questions about the freehold land surrounding her property when she took 
out the policy. However, this will need to be raised with the relevant party that sold 
the policy in the first instance before this service is able to consider such concerns. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Miss H as she was hoping for more 
compensation. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that any higher award than £100 
is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss H £100 compensation within 28 days of receiving her acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman