DRN-3432961
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr M with a loan for £3,800.00 in June 2017. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £163. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms 
complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr M with his loan. Avant 
Credit disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail. Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. 
In this case, the credit check Avant Credit has provided shows that Mr M was already 
significantly indebted. He was already at his limit on a number of his existing credit accounts 
and he had a significant history of payday and other high-cost lending. In these 
circumstances, I think that Avant Credit needed to carry out further checks before providing 
this loan to Mr M.  
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Ms expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr M was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why 
this was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown Avant Credit that Mr Ms existing precarious financial position 
was because he was struggling. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding 
out about Mr Ms income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As Avant Credit 
provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. Mr M ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,800.00 originally lent. If 
Mr M has already repaid more than £3,800.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Mr M is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman