DRN-3771117
The complaint
Mr H complains about loans granted to him by Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G). He says 
that L2G shouldnt have agreed to the loans because they were unaffordable for him.
Mr H has brought his complaint to us via a claims management company but for 
simplicity I will refer to him throughout.
What happened
L2G agreed two loans for Mr H in 2017, both in September. The first loan was 
cancelled within days, and the second was taken out a week later.
I understand Mr H had taken out earlier loans with L2G: one in July 2012, a second in 
March 2013 and a third in May. My decision deals with the two loans taken out in 2017 
and some of the information L2G provided about them is shown in the table below (all 
figures rounded to the nearest pound).
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repayable
1 01/09/2017 01/09/2017 £1,950 £269 36 £9,672
2 07/09/2017 - £3,150 £434 36 £15,624
These two were log book loans, in other words they were secured on Mr Hs car. This 
meant that if Mr H didnt make his loan repayments L2G could potentially recoup any 
losses through the sale of his vehicle.
L2G says it conducted an affordability check before lending to Mr H. It says that it took 
into account his credit commitments and his monthly expenditure and determined that Mr 
H had sufficient disposable income to afford the instalments. L2G says it would have 
declined to lend to Mr H if it had found there was any cause for concern in order to avoid 
any detriment to him.
Mr H says that he couldnt afford the loans and taking them out led him into financial 
difficulty. It seems from the statement of account that Mr H didnt meet his payments for 
the second loan when they were due. He made two payments in each of October, 
November and December 2017. He met his payment on time and in full in January 2018 
but made no payments after that. By June 2018 L2G had recovered his car, sold it and 
credited the proceeds of the sale (£3,586) to the loan account leaving an outstanding 
balance of over £10,000.
One of our investigators looked into what happened when Mr Hs loans were agreed. 
They found that the first loan had been cancelled shortly after it was taken out and as 
Mr H had made no payments towards it he hadnt lost out financially or had his credit file 
impacted. They found that L2G carried out a proportionate check when Mr H applied for 
the second loan and that there wasnt anything in the information it had gathered which 
would have prompted it to decline to lend to him. They didnt recommend that his 
complaint be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman and it came to me. Having reviewed the complaint, I thought it 
should be upheld. I sent out a provisional decision to both parties on 22 September 
2022 explaining my reasons. Ive had no further comment or information from either 
party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the matter again, and having no new comments or information 
to consider, I remain of the view that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Ill set 
out my reasons again in this final decision.
As Id said in my provisional decision, L2G will be familiar with the regulations in place 
at the time so I will summarise its main obligations. L2G needed to check that Mr H 
could afford to meet his repayments without difficulty or sustainably before agreeing 
each loan. In other words, it needed to check that he could meet his repayments out of 
his usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial 
difficulty. The necessary checks needed to take into account both the nature of the 
credit (the amount and the term, for example) and Mr Hs particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that L2G needed to pay due regard to Mr Hs interests 
and treat him fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G  gave an 
example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit 
history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs applications to satisfy itself that he would 
be able to make his repayments without experiencing financial difficulty, or any other 
adverse consequences? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown and, ultimately, did L2G make fair lending decisions with the information it had 
gathered?
Having considered everything carefully, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for L2G and Ive explained below how Ive reached 
this conclusion. Ive also set out what needs to happen to put things right for Mr H.
As our investigator noted, the loan agreed on the 1 September 2017 was withdrawn the 
same day and Mr H wasnt charged any interest. I havent looked into this loan further 
as I cant see that this would have caused a problem for Mr H from the information I 
have. Ive focussed on the loan taken out on 7 September 2017.
L2G carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr H applied for this 
second loan. It checked his bank statements and credit file. This seems to me to be a 
proportionate check, given the size of the loan and the potential that Mr H could lose 
his car if he didnt manage to meet his repayments over the three year term.
Ive reviewed the information L2G gathered to consider whether it made a fair lending decision. L2G recorded that Mr Hs monthly income was £8,969, which it estimated 
equated to a net income of £5,350 taking into account Mr Hs business costs including 
income tax. The copy of the income and expenditure record is annotated and it notes that 
L2G checked Mr Hs income and business costs against his bank statements. L2G 
accepted what Mr H said about his other expenses, which it recorded as about £1,600 
and it also checked his credit file.
I havent seen a copy of the credit file L2G relied on, but L2G provided a recent copy of
Mr Hs credit file which still shows some of the debts he had at the time. L2G recorded 
that Mr H was paying £895 each month on debt across three mortgages and four credit 
cards or loans. The repayment for this loan was £434, potentially bringing Mr Hs monthly 
spending on all debt to over £1,300, almost a quarter of his estimated net monthly 
income.
The above figures suggest that Mr H had about £2,850 a month spare. It seems 
inconsistent to me that Mr H was applying for a loan of £3,150 if he actually had this 
amount available each month. Mr H said in both 2017 loan applications that his income 
varied and he was paid as and when, and that he wanted money to help his cash flow. 
This also seems at odds with having such a relatively large surplus (after business costs, 
debt and other expenses were considered) as this might help to smooth any variations in 
income.
Ive reviewed the bank statements L2G relied on for this application. They cover the 
period 16 June to 31 August 2017 and are for Mr Hs business bank account. Mr H was 
self- employed and ran his own business. The bank statements show deposits, 
purchases, bill payments, transfers to people and cash withdrawals. The copies Ive 
seen are marked up with deposits annotated as A and purchases as B and a few as 
C and D.
I dont think L2G took all of the expenditure shown on the bank statement into account in 
its assessment to have concluded that Mr H had almost £3,000 a month spare. Alongside 
the annotated transactions there were frequent large amounts transferred to Mr Hs 
partner and large cash withdrawals, both amounting to thousands of pounds each month. 
I dont know whether these transactions were accounted for in the declared living 
expenses (of £1,600) L2G recorded in its assessment or whether these were in addition 
to those expenses. In either case, it seems to me that Mr H was spending what he 
earned. Ive noted that Mr Hs account became overdrawn or reduced to a balance of 
less than £10 about a dozen times altogether (over the statement period), despite the 
deposits. Altogether, with the information I have it doesnt seem likely to me that Mr H 
would have been able to afford the repayments for this loan.
Ive also noted that this was Mr Hs sixth loan application in five years, and the fourth 
loan that he had taken out with L2G. I dont know the details of these earlier loans and 
they are not considered in my decision, however Im mindful that he had been in debt to 
L2G for some time when this loan was agreed. As mentioned above, it seems to me that 
Mr H struggled to meet his loan repayments from the outset. Based on the information I 
have, I think its more likely than not that the payments were unsustainable for him and 
L2G should have seen this from the information it had. Ive concluded that L2G made an 
irresponsible lending decision on this occasion.
L2G recovered and sold Mr Hs vehicle and credited the sales proceeds to the loan account. 
I dont have enough information to make any finding on whether or not L2G treated Mr H 
fairly when it carried out the recovery and sale. However, Ive found that L2G shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Mr H and I think he lost his car as a consequence of this unfair lending 
decision. I think that Mr H suffered distress and inconvenience when he couldnt meet his repayments and his car was recovered and sold. Mr H has told us that he struggled to meet 
his repayments on this loan and it led him into a financial mess, including the loss of his car. 
He also said that the matter had a serious impact on his relationships and his mental health 
and I can see from L2Gs customer contact notes that hed told it about these circumstances 
in early 2018.
Let me say at this point that I am sorry to hear things have been so difficult for Mr H. He 
will appreciate that I cannot consider L2G to be the sole cause of his difficulties, but I can 
accept that its error exacerbated the impact his personal circumstances were having on 
him. I think it would be appropriate for L2G to pay him some compensation in recognition 
of this impact. As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up to £750 might be 
fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and worry and 
significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over weeks or 
months. Having considered this point carefully, Ive concluded that an award in this range 
would be appropriate here.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr H repays the principal he borrowed on this loan as hes had the use 
of this money. However, I dont think Mr H should be liable for any interest or charges on 
this amount or have his credit record adversely impacted. As L2G recovered and sold 
Mr Hs car, it should consider the sale proceeds as money Mr H paid towards the loan. I 
understand that Mr H has repaid more than he borrowed.
In order to put things right for Mr H, L2G needs to:
a) Waive any outstanding balance on the loan and consider it settled; and
b) Refund to Mr H any payments he made above the principal amount he 
borrowed, along with 8% simple interest per annum* to these overpayments 
from the date they were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Pay Mr H an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused him; and
d) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Hs credit file.
If L2G has sold on a loan balance to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the above steps are taken.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and require Loans 2 
Go Limited to put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman