DRN-4402291
The complaint
Miss C is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).  She says they were 
irresponsible in lending to her as the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
In September 2020, Miss C took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £250 and borrowed £8,445 - the cash price of 
the vehicle was £8,695. The agreement required her to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£280.80. She made all her repayments on time until August 2022 when a direct debit 
bounced  and her payments became more sporadic after this.
In September 2022, Miss C complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her 
because the loan was unaffordable. She said Moneybarn should have done more checks 
and that she was using payday loans at the time.
In their response, Moneybarn said they had carried out enough checks before deciding to 
lend to Miss C. They said theyd checked her credit report and used Miss Cs payslips to 
verify her stated monthly income of £1,280. They added that theyd used Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) data to estimate Miss Cs non-discretionary expenditure and therefore her 
disposable income. Using those figures theyd determined the agreement was affordable for 
Miss C. 
One of our investigators then looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying that he 
thought Moneybarn had completed proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. 
He added that as Miss C was living with her parents Moneybarn didnt need to account for 
many non-discretionary costs.
Miss C disagreed. She said she wasnt living with her parents at the time, she was renting 
and had three children. She asked for a decision and the complaints come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator - Ill explain why below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they conducted a full credit search and checked Miss Cs income to her 
payslips. They also said theyd used ONS data to estimate Miss Cs expenditure. Moneybarn 
noted Miss C was living with her parents so they didnt include any expenditure for housing, 
but their expenditure estimates included council tax, utilities and other basic living costs. 
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
term of the loan, cost of credit, and overall amount repayable  as well as what Moneybarn 
found during their checks. Given the loan was for five years, at a high interest rate, and 
Miss C would need to pay back almost £17,000 over that time, the checks needed to be 
thorough.
Moneybarn havent sent us a copy of the credit report they used. Theyve told us it showed 
Miss C had three defaults, with a total balance across the three of around £9,000. And they 
said it showed Miss C had active credit balances totalling around £8,000 with monthly 
repayments totalling around £316. Moneybarn noted that Miss Cs most recent default was 
17 months prior to the lending decision, and said there werent any other indicators that 
Miss C might be in financial difficulties at the time. 
CONC isnt specific about exactly what checks would be proportionate. But it does say that 
businesses are entitled to rely on statistical data unless they have reason to believe the 
statistical data might not be appropriate in the circumstances. In Miss Cs case, the finance 
application said she was living with her parents. So Moneybarns decision not to include 
housing costs in their income and expenditure assessment seems reasonable. I havent 
seen anything else in the information available to Moneybarn at the time that suggests it 
wasnt appropriate for them to rely on statistical data for estimates of Miss Cs other non-
discretionary expenditure.
I appreciate Miss Cs told us she was actually living independently rather than with her 
parents at the time of the loan. But Moneybarn have sent us a copy of the application they 
received and this clearly states: Living with Parents, so I cant say they should have been 
aware Miss C was living independently. 
Because Moneybarn didnt send us a copy of the credit report they used we asked Miss C to 
provide us with a copy. Unfortunately she hasnt done so, so Ive seen nothing to suggest 
there were any indicators in Miss Cs credit report that Miss C might be struggling financially 
and that statistical data might not be representative. 
In summary, Moneybarn checked Miss Cs income to payslips and used ONS data and data 
from her credit report to calculate her monthly disposable income. They calculated a figure of 
nearly £500 from which she would need to pay around £280 per month for the vehicle. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the checks they carried out werent proportionate in the 
circumstances.
Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Having concluded that Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks, I need to decide 
whether they made a fair lending decision. 
Looking at Miss Cs income, Moneybarn had eight weekly payslips. Calculating a monthly 
average from these payslips gives an income figure of around £1,300  a little higher than 
the figure Moneybarn quoted.
When looking at her expenditure, as Ive explained above, Moneybarn didnt include a figure 
for housing costs and used estimates based on statistical data for her other costs of living, 
as well as basing her monthly credit repayments on the data in Miss Cs credit file. Im satisfied this was a fair approach given the information Moneybarn had available to them at 
the time.
Using Moneybarns calculations would have allowed Miss C around £220 disposable income 
per month after making her repayments under this agreement. On that basis I cant say 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in deciding to lend to Miss C.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman