DRN-2898452
The complaint
Mr B complains that Professional Independent Advisers Limited (trading as PIA Wealth 
Management) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of a defined benefit occupational 
pension (OPS) with a former employer into a personal pension. 
Mr B is represented in bringing this complaint. But, for ease, all comments and actions will 
be noted as Mr Bs. 
What happened
Mr B was made redundant from a former employer in 2004, having apparently been 
employed there for about 19 years. He was a member of its OPS. 
He took advice from PIA in 2005. PIA subsequently carried out a pensions and life 
assurance review and wrote to Mr B on 3 May 2005 to confirm the actions taken on his 
behalf following his instructions to proceed. According to its system notes, this letter was 
PIAs suitability/recommendation letter. In it, PIA made the points set out below:
Mr Bs defined benefit OPS 
PIA said that in response to Mr Bs request in March 2005 to transfer the benefits from this 
pension, it explained the transfer process and the need to consider the result of a transfer 
analysis. PIA noted that in line with its prediction a critical yield of 12.69% per year would 
be needed to match the benefits Mr B would be giving up. However, Mr B had since 
insisted PIA help him to transfer his pension. According to PIAs notes, Mr B felt there was 
a risk that, due to underfunding of his former employer, Gs, pension scheme (largely 
because the UK workforce was being run down), he didnt think hed be able to draw benefits 
by the time he reached pension age. 
So, PIA proceeded to help him transfer his OPS to a personal pension with a company Ill 
refer to as C, with which hed previously held investments and had been happy with. PIA 
also noted that after comparing the benefits between a buy-out plan and a personal pension, 
it thought a personal pension offered more flexibility and suited Mr Bs personal 
requirements. He was then advised to transfer his pension benefits into a range of 
investments such as property, equity; gilt and fixed interest funds to suit his balanced risk 
profile.
Future pension provision 
PIA noted that Mr B was now self-employed and was in non-pensionable employment. So, 
he opted to boost his pension provision with a regular monthly contribution of £100 gross 
(£78 a month after tax) into his personal pension. 
In addition, Mr B decided to take out a life assurance policy to provide cover of £100,000 on 
a joint life basis over fifteen years to provide cover whilst his children were dependant. Hed 
previously paid into a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC), but 
had discontinued his contributions since leaving his employment with G. It was decided that 
fund would remain invested as it was for the time being. 
Mr B transferred his OPS with a transfer value of £39,381.88 to company C. 
A few months later, he also transferred his FSAVC with a transfer value of £13,914.15, into a 
personal pension with C.
According to a letter that PIA sent to Mr B in July 2005, part of the reason for him  
transferring his FSAVC was because of its lower charges and because he wanted to 
consolidate his pensions, so they were held with one provider. 
Around 2009, having received updated advice from a different adviser, Mr B transferred his 
funds away from C to a new pension arrangement with a different provider. 
In July 2020 Mr Bs representative complained to PIA. It said PIA had mis-sold Mr B an 
investment that wasnt suitable for him. It referenced (amongst other things) various rules 
from the regulators code of business sourcebook (COBS) around assessing suitability and 
asked PIA to look into things. 
PIA initially thought the complaint had been made too late. However, it said it had looked into 
things and interviewed the pension specialist who gave the advice in 2005. Amongst other 
things, it felt the evidence showed that Mr B had been presented with all of the facts and 
would have had time to reflect on them before instructing PIA to proceed with the 
recommendation. It was also satisfied hed been made aware of the risks and that the 
investments recommended would be seen as at the lower end of balanced. PIA didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr B contacted our service and PIA again initially felt that the complaint had been made too 
late (especially as it thought there would have been a detailed discussion when Mr B took 
updated advice in 2009). However, it later agreed for our service to look into the merits of the 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think PIA had acted fairly. He noted 
that Mr B opted for a personal pension as he thought it offered more flexibility given his 
personal requirements. However, he noted that Mr Bs personal pension fund would need to 
achieve a growth rate of more than 12.69% to outperform his OPS. And he thought that was 
very unlikely given the relevant discount rate at the time, which was 7.6%. That together with 
the composition of assets when compared to Mr Bs medium attitude to risk and the number 
of years until retirement, meant it was likely Mr B would receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than his OPS. 
And whilst the investigator noted Mr B had some concerns about Gs pension fund being 
underfunded, hed seen no evidence to suggest PIA explained the protection that might be 
offered by the Pension Protection Fund  even if there were concerns about the future 
funding of G's pension fund. The investigator thought PIA should have made this clear given 
Mr Bs concerns at the time. So, in summary, he didnt think the transfer was suitable, or 
viable in financial terms, also taking account of Mr Bs capacity for loss and limited 
investment experience. Nor did he think PIA had done enough to demonstrate why its advice 
was suitable. And the investigator felt that, if PIA had given suitable advice, Mr B would have 
left things as they were. 
PIA didnt agree and provided additional comments and documents for the investigator to 
consider. Those included:
its assertion that Mr B wouldn't have been advised to transfer;
it said it had absolute confidence that the correct procedures and protocols would 
have been carried out during its discussions with Mr B. Not least because the adviser 
(who was still employed by PIA) has an impeccable pedigree; 
in summary, PIA felt its adviser would have tried as hard as possible to persuade 
Mr B to stay in the OPS with G. Especially as at the time it fielded a number of 
enquiries from current and former workers with G due to concerns that the company 
was in financial difficulty. Its since indicated that Mr Bs might have been the only such transfer to have gone ahead. 
Our investigator considered the additional information but didnt feel it changed the outcome 
overall. And whilst he noted PIAs position that Mr B insisted on transferring, he didnt feel 
that was the same as him being an insistent client. He said that, had Mr B been categorised 
as this type of client, hed have expected to see that Mr B had signed a declaration showing 
hed gone against PIAs advice not to transfer. 
PIA asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even though PIA has been unable to find its client file, its adamant that it would have told 
Mr B not to transfer and would have done everything possible to persuade him to stay in the 
OPS. And whilst Mr B cant remember a lot of what happened due to the passage of time, he 
clearly thinks PIA didnt give him suitable advice. 
Where there are gaps in the evidence, as there are here, I need to consider, on balance, 
whats most likely to have happened. That means determining how likely it is, given its 
assertion, that PIA gave Mr B a clear recommendation not to proceed with the OPS transfer, 
but he did so anyway.  
What was PIA required to do?
In order to determine whether PIA acted fairly and reasonably, Ive first considered the rules 
in place at the time. 
PIA had to start from the position of assuming that it wouldnt be in Mr Bs best interests to 
transfer his OPS. And through the form of a fact find (specifically with pension transfers in 
mind), PIA would have had to find out (amongst other things) why Mr B wanted to transfer 
his OPS.  
That was particularly important in Mr Bs case, as he was only around 43 years old at the 
time  so he was about 22 years away from retirement. Hed also recently become self-
employed. So, it seems to me that having the security of an OPS (with guaranteed and 
valuable funds) to help fund his retirement probably became all the more important. 
PIA was also required to provide a meaningful illustration in which it highlighted Mr Bs 
objectives and how they could be best achieved. It also needed to highlight the benefits of 
remaining as well as transferring out of the OPS. Part of that process involved considering 
the transfer value of Mr Bs OPS and the growth needed if he was to match the benefits 
being given up. But overall, PIA needed to give Mr B sufficient, clear information to make an 
informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and a 
knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations, and options he might be giving up.  
Was PIAs advice suitable?
As I said, a lot of the information that would have been helpful here isnt available. And there 
were clearly discussions between Mr B and PIA during March and into April 2005. But 
without any notes, its not possible to determine exactly what was discussed, or the extent to 
which PIA explored Mr Bs needs. Nor is it possible to say how detailed an explanation it 
gave him about the risks of going ahead with the OPS transfer at that time. 
However, after very careful consideration, based on the evidence I do have available and 
what I know about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, I think I have to conclude, on balance, that PIA didnt give Mr B sufficiently clear information to explain that transferring out of his 
OPS probably wasnt in his best interests. Had it done so, it seems unlikely to me that Mr B 
would have gone ahead with the OPS transfer. Ill explain why. 
From what I can tell, the main reason Mr B approached PIA was because he was worried 
about the future viability of Gs pension fund. As I understand things, hed been a member of 
that fund for around 19 years. So, I can certainly see why hed want to try and safeguard his 
future pension benefits. And he may even have seen or heard press reports at the time or 
spoken to other former colleagues who were also concerned. I can see that, conversations 
with PIA continued into April 2005 by which time, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had 
been set up. From what I know about the PPF, it was specifically intended to protect against 
the kind of situation Mr B was worried about (his former employer being unable to pay his 
pension), and I think PIA would have known that. Seeing as this seemed to be the key 
reason for Mr B wanting to transfer his OPS, even with the limited information available, Id 
still have expected to see that PIA had discussed this with Mr B. And had it done so, it might 
have been enough to allay Mr Bs fears. 
Its worth saying that it wasnt uncommon for defined benefit (DB) schemes to be 
underfunded, and that wasnt necessarily a concern if the sponsoring employer was solvent. 
But if Mr B had legitimate concerns at the time of the advice about G potentially running into 
difficulties with an underfunded scheme, I think it would have been reasonable for PIA to 
discuss the possibility of the DB benefits being covered by the PPF. And, as PIA maintains 
that it tried to persuade Mr B to remain in his OPS, an explanation of this kind may have 
been enough to persuade Mr B that staying in the OPS was the right thing to do. But Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that PIA discussed this with Mr B nor is it mentioned in any of 
its responses to this service  including when it responded to our investigators assessment.
PIA sent Mr B a suitability/recommendations letter dated 3 May 2005. These letters are 
really important, as theyre often the basis upon which the client decides whether to accept 
the firms advice or not. So, regardless of what was or wasnt discussed at the meetings with 
PIA, Id have expected it to cover off its advice in more detail. And if PIA had made it clear at 
its meetings that it didnt advise Mr B to transfer, Id have expected the 
suitability/recommendations letter to reflect that. Not least because it would have given Mr B 
a final opportunity to reflect on PIAs advice and decide whether he really wanted to go 
ahead. But theres little information about the discussion apart from PIA briefly mentioning 
the critical yield needed (the implication seeming to be that it would be difficult to achieve) 
but Mr B wanted to go ahead in any event. 
Theres little else recorded about Mr Bs objectives either, although Mr Bs since indicated he 
might have been looking for some investment growth. Thats not an unusual objective. But 
again, PIA needed to think about that in terms of things such as Mr Bs attitude to risk and 
the critical yield needed just to match the values being given up in the OPS, let alone 
outperform the OPS. As Ive indicated, PIA clearly had some regard to the critical yield 
needed if Mr B was to match the valuable and guaranteed benefits he was giving up. But in 
my opinion, again, irrespective of what it may already have told Mr B at the meeting, I think it 
needed to say much more about what the critical yield meant in real terms. 
I say that because in all likelihood, once Mr B had transferred out of his OPS, the actual 
value needed just to match the benefits being given up was likely to have been higher once 
charges were factored in. And, if Mr B was to secure any investment growth then, 
realistically, the critical yield would be even higher. Otherwise, it doesnt seem worthwhile to 
transfer a valuable and guaranteed pension simply for things to stand still. In any event, the 
growth rate that was reasonably expected to be achieved at the time was only 7.6 % with 22 
years to go to retirement. So, it seems highly unlikely to me that Mr Bs investment was going to achieve the growth needed so as to outperform his OPS  especially when factoring 
in that Mr B was a balanced investor. And I think that was another important reason not to 
transfer. 
But Id have expected PIA to explain things in those terms when discussing the critical yield. 
Again, Ive seen no persuasive evidence it did so. I think everything points to the fact that 
Mr B was probably going to be worse off in retirement, especially as his personal pension 
plan was subject to investment risk. And I think PIA should have made that crystal clear to 
Mr B to help him make an informed decision. Given that pensions are retirement savings and 
Mr B had apparently invested in his OPS for about 19 years, it seems reasonable to assume 
that he wouldnt have gone ahead had PIA given him the kind of explanations Ive referred 
to. Especially when it appears he had no pressing need to transfer at that point. 
Im also not persuaded by PIAs argument that it gave Mr B sufficient time to reflect on its 
advice before going ahead. I say that because the day after sending its 
suitability/recommendations letter, it appeared to set the transfer wheels in motion. 
PIA seems wedded to the notion that Mr B was insistent on going ahead irrespective of its 
advice. Im not persuaded by that argument. Ive seen no evidence Mr B was an experienced 
investor. And, as Ive said, I cant see that he had a pressing need to transfer his OPS in 
2005 when he was in his early 40s. I also need to keep in mind that he approached PIA for 
advice, so it was for PIA to do the right thing and make sure it gave him suitable advice. If it 
felt so strongly that it wasnt advisable for Mr B to transfer, it could even have said it wasnt 
willing to facilitate a pension transfer and walked away. 
On balance, for all of the reasons Ive set out, if PIA did advise Mr B not to proceed, I dont 
think it did so in clear enough terms, so that hed have fully understood the risks hed likely 
be taking in transferring out of his OPS. And, on that basis, I cant fairly say it gave Mr B 
suitable advice. As Ive indicated, Im also not persuaded that Mr B would have gone ahead 
if PIA had given him clear advice not to proceed. But even if PIA thought Mr B was insistent 
about going ahead, I would still expect it to have documented that to show that Mr B 
understood the risks of what he was doing. Ive seen no evidence that happened either.
For completeness, Ill acknowledge here that Mr B has since transferred his personal 
pension funds to a different provider (although it seems theyre invested in very similar funds 
to those he was in before). But as Ive concluded that Mr B would likely have remained in the 
OPS had PIA given him more suitable and clearer advice, PIA now needs to consider 
whether Mr B has suffered a financial loss as a result of its actions.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Professional Independent Advisers Limited to 
put Mr B, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable 
advice. I consider he would have remained in the occupational scheme. PIA must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.Professional Independent Advisers Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work 
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% here 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Professional Independent Advisers Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Professional Independent Advisers Limited to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Professional Independent Advisers Limited to 
pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I additionally require 
Professional Independent Advisers Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Professional 
Independent Advisers Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000 I also recommend that 
Professional Independent Advisers Limited pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B. 
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Professional Independent 
Advisers Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Professional Independent Advisers Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Professional Independent Advisers Limited to settle the 
complaint as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman