DRN-3444375
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd (HSBC) mis-sold a reviewable 
whole of life policy. The policy was placed in trust and Mrs M and Mr M (the trustees) also 
complain HSBC failed to review or administer the policy properly as professional trustee. 
What happened
Mrs M took out the reviewable whole of life policy in 1987 and is named as the policyholder. 
The policy costs £6,000 per year and provides life cover of £479,896. The policy was placed 
in trust with both Mr and Mrs M as settlors and lives assured with the benefit to be paid to 
the beneficiaries on second death. HSBC were appointed professional trustee (in addition to 
the trustees bringing the complaint). 
The representative of Mrs M and trustees complained to HSBC about the sale of the policy 
and HSBCs service as trustee. HSBC responded, but their response wasnt accepted. So, 
the representative and trustees contacted our service and asked us to look into things. Our 
investigator issued a view explaining why he didnt feel HSBC had done anything wrong. 
The representative didnt agree, in summary he said: 
Mrs M had a high-risk attitude towards investing. 
The trust deeds drawn up by HSBC were inadequate.  
They failed to review the annual £6,000 investment which was paid into the same 
fund for over thirty years. There were 38 funds to choose from. HSBC were the 
professional trustee and servicing agent. But HSBC didnt carry out a single review 
and they should have increased the death benefit. 
He maintains this was an investment and statements focused on the investment 
element and value.  Even if life assurance was the sole objective, it still should have 
been reviewed. The information our service provides about these types of policies 
confirms theyre usually reviewed at set times. He has provided a timeline which 
shows the opportunities HSBC had to review the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ms finances were reviewed in 2008 and so the policy should have been 
reviewed at that time. 
HSBC did not fulfill their duties as professional trustees as per their terms and 
conditions and the relevant trust law. If the policy had been properly managed it 
could have provided a much larger death benefit.
The policy did not cover their full IHT liability. They went on to reduce their IHT 
liability and the 2008 review confirms they were unlikely to have any liability by 2012. 
So, the representative questions whether there was a need for the policy at all. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A significant amount of time has passed since the initial sale of the policy, so there is limited 
information available. This isnt unusual. But it does mean my decision is based on the 
information I do have and what I think is more likely to have happened on balance. 
Id also note the representative has made detailed submissions to our service in relation to 
this complaint. I want to assure him that I have considered everything. But I may not have 
referred to everything he has said. Where a specific point is not mentioned in my decision, 
this is simply because I dont think I need to refer to it to reach the right outcome here.
Sale 
The sale of this policy took place before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into force on 
29 April 1988. So, HSBC werent under an obligation to provide advice when selling a 
product, but where they did they needed to ensure: 
They did not make negligent mis-statements; 
They disclosed material information; and 
They advised with reasonable care and skill. 
In light of these requirements, the advisor needed to ensure the policy was appropriate and 
that there was a need. This is different to the standards of suitability brought in by the FSA 
1986. 
Mrs M is named as the policyholder and its likely Mrs M had a need for the policy as they 
agreed to take it out. I understand she was concerned about IHT liability. This policy would 
help mitigate this liability as it was held in trust and the sum assured would be paid to the 
beneficiaries outside of the estate on second death.  
Ive seen the fund was a mixed investment fund which was made up of 40-85% shares and 
had a risk rating of three out of five. However, I dont have any information from the time of 
the sale to tell me why this fund was chosen. I also appreciate the representatives 
comments about the risk rating. But I dont think this meant the recommendation wasnt 
appropriate. 
I wouldnt necessarily expect there to be an in-depth discussion about the amount of risk 
involved in the fund because it wasnt standard practice at the time. The main aim of the 
policy wasnt capital growth as with some of the other investment products Mrs M had  but 
to successfully pay out the sum assured. 
Mrs M may well have been willing to invest in a higher risk investment product. But the 
purpose of the underlying investment for the policy was to perform sufficiently to maintain the 
premiums and cover the cost of life cover as it inevitably increased with the age of the lives 
assured. It would also need to do this over the long term in order to achieve Mrs Ms 
objective of mitigating IHT. Therefore, a relatively stable policy is more appropriate here. I 
understand the policy hasnt failed a review from the provider despite being in force for a 
significant number of years.  
Ive also seen a copy of the policy documents which show reasonable information about the 
policy was given at the time of the sale which would have allowed Mrs M to make an informed decision. I also understand it didnt cover Mrs Ms (or both Mr and Mrs Ms) full IHT 
liability at the time  but this doesnt persuade me it was unreasonable because it still went 
someway to covering it.
 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBCs recommendation was appropriate because it seemed to be 
appropriate for Mrs Ms needs at the time and she was given clear information. 
Trust deed 
Ive reviewed a copy of the trust deeds and I can see it is on a document with headed paper 
from the provider of the policy. HSBC have confirmed they wouldnt draw up a trust deed 
themselves, and I also wouldnt expect this to be within their remit when providing financial 
advice. Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to use the templated deeds obtained from 
the provider. 
Professional trustee
HSBC have accepted they werent aware they were appointed trustee and didnt hold a copy 
of the trust deed. So, its now necessary for me to consider whether this has had a 
detrimental impact to the trust. Ive considered what I think is likely HSBC should have done 
in their role as professional trustee and their duties. Ive also considered what theyve set out 
in terms and conditions and the service they agreed to provide. 
I havent seen HSBC received an ongoing advice fee for the policy or Mrs Ms financial 
arrangements. Theres also no evidence that such an agreement was in place. Their duty 
here was to the trust. The reviews described on our website and highlighted by the 
representative, also refer to reviews carried out by the provider of the policy. This is where 
the provider checks to ensure the premiums are sufficient to maintain the sum assured and it 
happens at set periods during the lifetime of the policy. 
  
The provider of the policy sent an illustration detailing a possible increase to the life cover in 
January 2019. So, the representative has said HSBC should have increased the life cover. 
He also said the premium was paid annually and it wasnt ever reviewed. But I dont think it 
was necessary for HSBC to seek to make changes to the policy once it had been set up. 
There is a copy of a review on file from May 2010 and this was sent to both HSBC and Mrs 
M. Im satisfied changes to the policy would have ultimately been for Mrs M to enquire about 
and initiate based on her financial position and needs. It was also open to the other 
appointed trustees to seek advice. 
I also dont consider that HSBC needed to do anything more to review the policy here. This 
is because of the type of policy it was, and I note there had been no failed reviews by the 
providers. It was designed to continue until second death, at which point the sum assured 
would be paid to the trust and distributed to the beneficiaries. HSBCs role as trustee would 
then ensure the proceeds are paid to the beneficiaries named in the trust deed. They werent 
responsible for fund switching or providing ongoing advice.
 
HSBC have confirmed their investment managers have looked back at the fund and have 
confirmed it was not considered underperforming when compared to other holdings. Having 
considered the evidence, I dont think it would be for HSBC to recommend switching the fund 
in the circumstances. 
Overall, HSBC should have been aware of there appointment as professional trustee. 
However, the evidence doesnt persuade me this has caused a loss to the trust or that 
HSBC would have initiated any changes. So, I cant say theres been a detriment here and I 
wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.  My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman