DRN-2585504
The complaint
Mr D complains about the repairs that Amtrust Europe Limited made to his car under his 
minor repairs motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D claimed for repairs to the door and bonnet of his car. Amtrusts agent made satisfactory 
repairs to the door panel after two attempts. He had to better match the colour of the 
paintwork. The agent said the bonnet chips had been touched in as best it could. But Mr D 
said the wrong colour had been used. Amtrust paid Mr D £150 compensation for its level of 
service. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr D was 
satisfied with the repairs to the door, so he didnt consider this further. He thought Amtrust 
had paid Mr D reasonable compensation for its level of service. But he thought it should 
touch in the bonnet using the right colour match, repair the area to match the car colour or 
pay for Mr D to have this done. 
Amtrust replied that the colour match was as close as it could get and the touch in would 
always appear darker. It said a full repair by respraying the bonnet wasnt a minor cosmetic 
repair and would require a body shop.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr D wants his car repaired to the highest standard and in keeping 
with his policy. I can see that hes satisfied with Amtrusts rectification of the repair to his 
door. So I wont consider that further. 
And I can see that the investigator has explained that because hes used the policy we cant 
require Amtrust to refund his premium. I also think its payment of £150 compensation for the 
poor initial repairs and repeated call outs is fair and reasonable. This is because its in 
keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. What remains for me to consider is 
the repairs to the cars bonnet.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
A touch-in process was completed on the bonnet which Mr D is unhappy about as the
colour used doesnt match the original. Under the policy, it says:
A Touch-in Repair involves the Minor Cosmetic Damage to be colour matched and painted 
as close as possible to the original finish
Both Mr D and Amtrust agree that a touch in repair is acceptable for the chips. And I can see 
that both Mr D and Amtrust agree that the touch in paint is darker than the original finish on 
the car. Amtrust says that its met the policy requirement to colour match as close as 
possible. The manager of its agent said:
The touch in is as good as it will get. The problem is the paint is designed to be sprayed not 
touched in. It will appear darker as its supposed to be finely sprayed. The only way to get the 
damage perfect is to paint the whole bonnet and that is a Bodyshop repair.
But this doesnt address the issue that the wrong shade of paint was used in the repairs in 
the first instance. This was remedied by colour matching the door repairs, and Mr D was 
satisfied by this. But, from what I can see, the wrong colour was also used on the bonnet. 
And so I think Amtrust hasnt met the policy terms and conditions by matching the colour as 
close as possible. Mr D says that he would be satisfied by a touch in using the correct colour 
match. And I think that would be a reasonable solution to the dispute. 
Putting things right
So I think Amtrust should touch in the bonnet chips using the correct colour match. Or, if its 
unwilling to do this, it should either repair the area to match the cars colour or pay for Mr D 
to have this done elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman