DRN-3397639
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs fraud prevention systems didnt identify an 
unusual transaction from his account. And hed like the money refunded. 
What happened
Mr C has an account with Barclays. 
On 7 February 2020 Mr C carried out a transaction via chip and PIN in Brazil at a bar, Ill call 
A, for £914.77. 
Mr C noticed the transaction on his statement and wasnt sure what it was for. He raised it 
with Barclays. Although he remembered being at A he explained to Barclays he should have 
only spent about £20 in the bar. And doesnt remember agreeing to a payment of that size. 
Our service previously looked into a complaint Mr C made about Barclays not raising a 
chargeback correctly  so I wont be considering this element of Mr Cs transaction. But, I will 
be looking at whether Mr C authorised the payment and if the transaction should have 
triggered Barclays fraud prevention system. 
Barclays looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained that it was the 
customers decision to make sure a transaction contains the correct value and as this 
transaction was authorised, they wont be refunding it. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They asked Barclays for their 
response to Mr Cs specific point and the fraud prevention system failing to trigger. 
The bank explained that their fraud prevention systems is based on a number of variables 
based on risk, and partly because the transaction was authorised by chip and PIN it didnt 
flag up. 
Mr C argued that the transaction was for a significant amount of money, and in a foreign 
country. And his account has since often been flagged for suspicious activity. 
Our investigator concluded that Barclays acted fairly in failing to prevent the transaction. In 
summary he explained the transaction was authorised. He didnt think it was unusual, it 
wasnt large, didnt leave Mr C with a low balance and hed recently made other genuine 
payments in Brazil. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
He hasnt spent over £500 on his card and he thinks spending twice that amount in a 
foreign country should be considered out of character
Barclays havent been consistent in identifying transactions  theyve blocked some 
transactions hes carried out in America
He hasnt accepted the offer on his first complaint, but hed accept an offer for half of 
the disputed transaction
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive briefly considered if Mr C authorised the disputed transaction. Mr C agrees that 
he carried out the transaction  this means completing the transaction using chip and PIN  
however he disputes the amount. However, even though Mr C says he didnt agree to the 
amount charged for the purposes of the relevant legislation  the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017  Mr C has consented and therefore authorised the transaction. 
What this means is that under the legislation Barclays arent required to refund the 
transaction to Mr C. However, this isnt the end of what our service expects from Barclays 
when protecting their customers from fraud and financial harm. 
Mr Cs main complaint point is that Barclays didnt identify the transaction as unusual or 
prevent it from being processed. And he cant understand why this didnt happen considering 
the size of the payment  larger than anything hes authorised before - the location (in Brazil) 
and Barclays actions in blocking transactions since whilst hes been in America. 
Ive considered Mr Cs argument. And Ive looked at the relevant best practice regarding 
expectations for banks in identifying suspicious transactions. As our investigator explained 
the British Standards Institute (BSI) code gives examples of what activity a bank might see 
which indicates a customer could be at risk of fraud or financial abuse. These include:
A sudden increase in spending
Sudden changes to the operation of the account
A withdrawal or payment for a large amount 
Ive looked at the payment Mr C disputes to see whether I think it should have triggered 
Barclays fraud detection system. I understand that Mr C will be disappointed with my 
thoughts, but Im afraid I dont think it should. 
Firstly, Ive considered the location of the payment. The transaction, as Mr Cs explained, 
was carried out in Brazil. But looking at Mr Cs activity prior to the transaction this wasnt 
unusual  hed carried out transactions in Brazil from 4 February 2020 onwards. So, I cant 
say that the location of the payment should have raised concerns with Barclays. 
Ive considered Mr Cs balance at the time of the transaction, and whether it was reduced to 
a level which should have raised concerns with Barclays. After the disputed transaction, 
Mr C was left with a balance of just under £1,000  a level which wasnt unusual. 
Ive also thought about the size of the transaction, and I agree that its larger than Mr Cs 
usual payments. However, looking at Mr Cs statements I can see several payments of over 
£300  and I dont think the payment of £914.77 is significantly higher than this. Even if the 
payment was significantly higher, I wouldnt expect a payment made in an area where Mr C 
carried out genuine transactions and which didnt reduce his balance to an unusually low 
level to trigger Barclays fraud detection system. 
Mr C responded to our investigators view by mentioning he hasnt accepted the offer made 
by Barclays for his first complaint of £100.  Unfortunately, as this was an offer made by Barclays on a previous complaint Im unable to comment on whether I think this is fair  or if 
this remains available.   
I understand Mr C will be disappointed with my conclusion  however I dont think the 
transaction should have been flagged as unusual by Barclays. And I wont be asking them to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman