DRN-3170832
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) wont pay to 
replace all three of their French doors following a claim for a burglary and damage to their 
home.
What happened
One of my ombudsman colleagues has issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. 
He is unable to complete a final decision due to circumstances outside of his, or our 
services, control. So, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide in his 
absence.
My ombudsman colleague set out the full background to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in his 
provisional decisions, so I dont intend to repeat that information, in full, here. Instead, Ill 
broadly summarise the background to this complaint and my ombudsman colleagues 
provisional findings. Where I have agreed with, and adopted the findings of my 
ombudsman colleague, Ive set this out in the What Ive decided  and why section of 
this decision. 
Mr and Mrs H have brought their complaint to our service through a representative. But, 
for ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs H by name in this decision, even when 
referring to evidence or arguments put forward by their representative.
Mr and Mrs Hs property was burgled. During the burglary, a French door to rear of their 
property was damaged. There are three matching French doors along the rear of their 
property and their policy includes replacement of sets cover. An exact match for their 
existing doors isnt able to be sourced. So, they want Lloyds to replace all three doors, so 
that the matching aesthetic finish is retained.
Lloyds argued that doors arent covered under the matching sets cover. It said they are 
articles of a uniform nature, colour or design which are not part of a matching set and so 
are excluded under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds policy and sales information is misleading as 
it doesnt define what it considers a set or give detailed information on restrictions to the 
replacement of sets cover. Theyve also complained about Lloyds decision not to cover 
the undamaged French doors under the replacement of sets cover, and its decision not to 
cover the fees they have incurred from their loss assessor.
My ombudsman colleague issued his first provisional decision in July 2021. In this 
decision he addressed Lloyds arguments above and explained why he thought 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. To summarise, this provisional decision said:
The sales information isnt misleading as its clear that the summary document 
needs to be read in conjunction with the policy document.
The policy terms dont clearly refer to external doors under the matching sets 
cover, but it wouldnt be practical for Lloyds to give an exhaustive list of items it will 
or wont cover.
Internal doors are used as an example of articles of a uniform nature which arent 
part of a set, but there is no mention of external doors.
Based on images, its clear the French doors were designed to give a consistent 
finish. They are all visible in one eyeline and purchased and installed at the same 
time.
In the circumstances of this complaint, it would be fair and reasonable to direct 
Lloyds to treat Mr and Mrs Hs French doors as a matching set and to cover them 
in line with the replacement of sets cover.
Lloyds didnt need to reimburse Mr and Mrs Hs loss assessor fees because they 
appointed a loss assessor knowing their fees wouldnt be covered. Also, 
Mr and Mrs H could have approached our service without the need of a loss 
assessor, as they did with a separate complaint about another issue.
Both sides responded to this provisional decision with further arguments. 
Mr and Mrs H were pleased the provisional decision regarding the doors was in line with 
their position. But they provided further detail explaining why they thought it would be fair 
for Lloyds to cover their loss assessor fees.
Lloyds responded and explained that it was able to source a replacement for the damaged 
door, which was a reasonable match for the undamaged doors, and sent a photo of it. 
Lloyds said under the policy terms, this meant there would be no obligation to replace the 
undamaged doors as it could provide a reasonable match.
My ombudsman colleague considered the responses and documents provided before 
issuing a second provisional decision in September 2021. To summarise, this provisional 
decision said:
Mr and Mrs Hs comments regarding their loss assessor fees hadnt changed his 
mind. They could have approached our service without needing to engage the 
services of a loss assessor. Lloyds also made it clear, prior to Mr and Mrs H 
appointing a loss assessor, that it would not cover those fees.
He maintained his decision that the sales information wasnt misleading, for the 
same reasons he gave in his first provisional decision.
The policy terms for replacement of sets cover specify that Lloyds will only replace 
undamaged items if a reasonable match cannot be obtained. And reasonable 
match is defined as being similar but not an exact match.
The main difference between the image of the suggested replacement door and 
the existing doors is the handles, which were silver rather than white. But Lloyds 
confirmed the handles can be obtained in white.
 
The replacement door also has two handles, rather the one, which differs from the 
existing doors. But, in his mind, this wasnt enough of a difference to say that the 
door wouldnt amount to a reasonable match.Based on the above, he was changing his provisional conclusions and was now 
minded to decide that Lloyds had acted fairly by basing its settlement on a 
reasonable match for the damaged door.
 
Mr and Mrs H have provided further evidence and arguments in response to the second 
provisional decision. Theyve disputed that Lloyds shared the image of the replacement door 
with them as it says it did. Theyve also disputed that the suggested replacement amounts to 
a reasonable match.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered all the new comments and evidence sent in response to my 
ombudsman colleagues provisional decisions. 
There are three main issues that remain to be decided. These are:
whether Lloyds sales and policy information, in particular the terms around 
replacement of sets cover, are misleading;
whether Lloyds should cover the loss assessor fees Mr and Mrs H have incurred, and 
whether Lloyds should cover the undamaged French doors under the replacement of 
sets cover. 
For ease of reference, Ill address each separately. 
Misleading information
Mr and Mrs H have complained that the sales and policy information is misleading and 
doesnt give an adequate explanation of the replacement of sets cover.
My ombudsman colleague considered their arguments in detail in his first provisional 
decision. He accepted that the various documents Mr and Mrs H highlighted, in isolation, 
didnt give detailed information about the matching sets cover. But he explained that each of 
the documents/sales screens were providing a summary of cover and clearly stated they 
were to be read in conjunction with other policy documents. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and arguments provided by both sides regarding this 
issue. Like my ombudsman colleague, I accept that the policy doesnt give a clear definition 
of what would be considered a set. But that having been said, I dont think the policy gives 
the impression that any matching item would be considered a set and so be covered. I say 
this because it does make a distinction between matching sets and articles of a uniform 
nature which do not form part of a set.
Mr and Mrs H have argued that the exclusion for articles of a uniform nature specifically 
mentions internal doors but not external doors. I accept this. But I dont think the list given in 
the policy document is designed to be exhaustive. Rather, I think it is providing examples  
and I dont think this means it is unclear or misleading.
Ultimately, I dont think the policy or sales information was misleading or that it gave the 
impression that any matching item would be covered under the replacement of sets cover.Loss assessor fees
When responding to my ombudsman colleagues second provisional decision, Mr and Mrs H 
didnt raise any further arguments about this issue. But in response to his first provisional 
decision they set out numerous reasons why they felt Lloyds ought to cover their loss 
assessor fees. So, for completeness, Ill address this issue.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs H have said and provided. But, like my 
ombudsman colleague, what I think is key here is that Lloyds clearly advised Mr and Mrs H 
that these fees wouldnt be covered. In addition to this, Mr and Mrs H could have 
approached our service for help, rather than engaging the services of their loss assessor. 
Ultimately, I think Mr and Mrs H made the choice to instruct their loss assessor in the full 
knowledge that they would need to cover the fees themselves. And the policy doesnt 
provide cover for fees charged by a loss assessor. So, I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Lloyds to cover these costs.
The French doors
Mr and Mrs H have provided several photos of their doors as well as the suggested 
replacement. Theyve highlighted multiple differences in the appearance of the doors, such 
as there being two handles on the replacement door rather than one on their doors. Theyve 
also said the profiling detail and size and shape of the hinges arent an exact match.
Mr and Mrs H have provided comments from a member of staff at Lloyds glazing specialist 
confirming that there will be a noticeable difference between the doors. Theyve argued that 
if there is a noticeable difference then the suggested replacement cant be a reasonable 
match. Theyve said the terms noticeable difference and reasonable match directly 
contradict each other.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs H have said and provided. Ive also 
considered the terms and conditions of their policy and the specifications of the replacement 
door.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy explain the cover afforded under 
replacement of sets:
What we cover
If you have made a successful buildings claim for an item which forms part of a 
matching set or suite, we will pay for the cost of replacing or changing any associated 
undamaged item from the matching set or suite when a replacement of, or 
reasonable match for, the lost or damaged item cannot be obtained. 
By reasonable match we mean this may be similar but not an exact match.
What we dont cover
What we dont cover in the section(s) of cover under which you have 
claimed.
Undamaged items that are articles of a uniform nature, colour or design which 
are not part of a matching set or suiteBy articles of a uniform nature, colour or design which are not part of a matching set 
or suite, we mean articles such as windows, conservatory roof panels, internal 
doors.
Based on the above, its clear that the policy doesnt provide cover for an exact match. And 
in my view, the differences highlighted by Mr and Mrs H are subtle. So, I dont agree with 
Mr and Mrs Hs assertion that some minor aesthetic differences, such as the finer detailing 
on the profile or the shape of the hinges, are enough to show that the replacement doesnt 
amount to a reasonable match. Afterall, the policy document clearly states that a reasonable 
match is one that is similar, although not an exact match. 
Mr and Mrs Hs French doors appear to be of a fairly standard design  a glass pane in each 
door surrounded by a white PVC frame with three hinges. And in my view, the suggested 
replacement meets the policy definition of a reasonable match, aesthetically, as it is also of a 
similar, standard design. Ive also considered the security features of both sets of doors and 
note that those on the replacement door are of equal quality to the existing doors.
The most obvious difference between the doors is the fact there are two handles on the 
replacement door. But I note that the damaged door sits on its own, on a wall perpendicular 
to the wall containing the undamaged doors, which are directly next to each other. So, 
although all three doors are visible within one eyeline, there is still a natural separation. And 
considering this alongside the general similarity in the design of the doors, I dont consider 
the extra handle to be a significant enough difference to conclude that the replacement door 
doesnt amount to a reasonable match. Particularly as Lloyds has confirmed the handles can 
be supplied in white, as opposed to the sliver ones in the photo it provided.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I consider that the suggested replacement 
door is a reasonable match for the existing doors. So, it follows that by paying Mr and Mrs H 
a cash settlement for the cost of the replacement door, I think Lloyds has settled their claim 
fairly, and in line with the policy terms.
I've decided that its fair for Lloyds to settle this element of the claim based on the cost of 
replacing the damaged door with the reasonable match suggested, rather than the cost of 
replacing all three doors. But Mr and Mrs H have also said they feel its unfair for Lloyds to 
base its settlement offer on a replacement it has sourced, when it is insisting on settling the 
claim in cash.
I should clarify that the dispute I'm deciding in this case is whether Lloyds should cover the 
cost of replacing all three doors, or just the damaged door, which I've reached a finding on. 
This complaint did not include a dispute over the amount Lloyds paid for the damaged door  
which Mr and Mrs H accepted on the basis they would continue their dispute over the 
undamaged doors. In any event, Mr and Mrs H have havent suggested, or presented any 
evidence, that the amount Lloyds paid for replacing the damaged door isnt reasonable. If 
Mr and Mrs H feel the amount paid for the damaged door isnt sufficient (for that door in 
isolation, not the three that they would like replaced) then they should present that evidence 
to Lloyds for it to consider separately.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman