DRN-1791266
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined his request to extend his overdraft 
limit. Mr I also complains that Lloyds gave him the wrong information and refused to help 
while he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr I has had a current account with Lloyds and, overtime, reduced the overdraft limit from 
£2,100 to £500. In October 2019 Mr I asked Lloyds to increase his overdraft limit and has 
told us he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time. 
Lloyds rejected Mr Is request and told him it had found a default on his credit report. 
Mr I complained and Lloyds agreed it had handled Mr Is request badly. Lloyds paid Mr I a 
total of £91 and offered a further £100 when it issued its final response on 11 November 
2019. Lloyds agreed it had incorrectly told Mr I it found a default on his credit file. But it didnt 
change its decision to reject Mr Is overdraft request. Mr I has told us he had to borrow 
money elsewhere after Lloyds declined his request. 
Mr I referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Lloyds offer to pay a further £100, taking the total award to £191, was fair. Mr I didnt agree 
and asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Lloyds acted in error when it told Mr I it had found a default on his credit file. I 
agree that its fair for Lloyds to compensate Mr I for giving him the wrong information. But, 
like the investigator, Im satisfied Lloyds had dealt with Mr Is complaint fairly and that the 
compensation it has offered, totalling £191, is reasonable. 
Mr I wants to know why Lloyds declined his overdraft request. But businesses dont have to 
give a detailed explanation of why an application was turned down. In this case, whilst 
Lloyds was wrong to say it had found a default on Mr Is credit file, it also said he had 
previously gone over the overdraft limit. Ive looked back at Mr Is statements from 2019 and 
can see there were occasions Mr Is account balance did exceed the agreed overdraft limit. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds had genuine reasons to decline Mr Is overdraft extension request. 
Mr I has explained that he had to borrow money elsewhere because Lloyds wasnt willing to 
help. But Lloyds, like all businesses, is free to chose whether to lend. In this case, Lloyds 
wasnt willing to provide further borrowing to Mr I so he had to consider other options. 
I agree that Lloyds handled the overdraft extension request poorly and that it gave Mr I the 
wrong information about why it didnt proceed. But Lloyds has paid Mr I £91, apologised and 
offered a further £100  taking the total award to £191. I know my decision will disappoint Mr 
I, but Im satisfied the £191 fairly reflects the impact of Lloyds' errors and service so Im not telling it to take any further action. I leave it to Mr I to decide whether to accept the additional 
£100 Lloyds has offered.  
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
offered a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr l to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman