DRN-2922915
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc restricted his account use.
What happened
Mr H says he tried to make a payment for a camper van, but Santander blocked this 
transaction. He says Santander gave him a number of reasons for the account restrictions 
and eventually the purchase fell through. Mr H says he tried to contact Santander with 
limited success, and he was promised call backs which he didnt receive. He says he was 
caused a significant level of stress and inconvenience and would like appropriate 
compensation.
Santander says it blocked a payment of just over £14,000 due to fraud concerns and spoke 
to Mr H about it. It says it suggested Mr H make a transfer, but he didnt wish to do so. 
Santander says Mr H then attempted to make card payments which it authorised, but the 
card provider didnt. It accepts it could have dealt more appropriately with the situation and in 
providing advice to Mr H. Santander has paid £150 compensation and offered a further £100 
compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, but our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate and that Santander wasnt responsible for the card payments being blocked. The 
investigator also thought Santander had offered a solution by suggesting a transfer and 
accepted Mr H hadnt been given the correct information.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation offer doesnt go far enough 
and says he suggested the transfer, but that Santander couldnt match the exchange rate he 
was offered elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I 
also appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
Banks and building societies must have fraud measures in place to protect their customers 
money and their own. I have no doubt Mr H appreciates that and that fraud is a major 
problem. I accept that on occasions legitimate transactions are made subject to security 
measures and delayed or blocked. Im satisfied that is what initially took place here, that Mr 
Hs payment was held due to a fraud block. I have no doubt that caused Mr H inconvenience 
and I also accept this was his money. But Im also satisfied that Santander is entitled to 
apply such account restrictions in line with the account terms and conditions. So, I dont think 
Santander made a mistake by applying account restrictions in circumstances where it had 
security concerns.
I dont think Santander was responsible for some of the payments not being authorised or 
being successful. I can see from Santanders records that it authorised some of the 
payments, but the card provider applied its own restrictions and blocks. I cant fairly hold 
Santander responsible for the actions of a separate business.
There is no question here that Santander didnt deal with Mr Hs understandable request for 
information about what was going on and his complaint generally as it should have. I can 
see that Santander also accepts that was the case. And I accept that the lack of information 
would have increased Mr Hs level of frustration.
The key issue for me to decide is the level of compensation. And having done so Im 
satisfied that Santander has made a fair and reasonable offer of £250. Im also satisfied that 
is line with the types of compensation orders this service makes and I make clear to Mr H 
that we are not Santanders regulator or that its our role to punish it. I find that compensation 
offer takes into account that Santander wasnt responsible for all of the issues here.
I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about the compensation offer and so I will leave it to 
him to decide if he wishes to accept this decision. I also make clear that I dont need to 
decide which party suggested the money transfer as its clear Mr H didnt wish to use that 
option as Santander couldnt match the exchange rate he was given by a different business.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of a further £100. Mr Hs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman