DRN-3172330
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of a charity, wholl Ill refer to here as R. Mr B complains about 
several life assurance policies that were taken out alongside loans arranged through 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr B believes the life policies were missold as there was no 
requirement for the charity administrators/trustees to have taken out the life cover. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In the early 1990s Barclays granted loans to R, although it is not clear if the loans were in 
the name of R or the administrators of R. Life cover policies were taken out alongside the 
loans by three administrators of R. 
Further borrowing was agreed by Barclays around 2000 and additional life cover was again 
taken out alongside the loans. At this time only two of the previous three administrators took 
out policies. And, like the earlier loans, it is not completely clear if the loans were in the 
name of R or the administrators of R. 
I understand that Mr B, in his capacity as a trustee of R, complained to Barclays about the 
life policies as he doesnt think the administrators (two of whom subsequently became 
trustees) should have been required to take out the life policies as protection for the loans. 
Mr B refers to a letter from the Charity Commission for England and Wales, from 2003, that 
questions why the trustees were required to take out the life policies and why the charity was 
paying the premiums for those policies. The letter refers to the fact that the trustees have no 
liability when it comes to the administration of the charity or its property. 
Mr B complained to Barclays about the sale of the policies and that he felt they had been 
missold. Mr B also referred to whether undisclosed commission was paid for the sale of the 
policies.  
Mr B mentions that when the Charity Commissions concerns about the policies were 
referred to Barclays in 2003, Barclays decided to stop charging for the policies.
Barclays responded to the complaint and explained that prior to late 2000 it was a condition 
of Barclays lending that life cover was required to be taken out alongside the lending. This 
was to ensure sufficient protection was in place so that the loans would be repaid in the 
event of the death of the borrower. 
Because of the amount of time that has passed since the loans were taken out Barclays 
says that it cannot now be certain if the loans were in the name of R or the administrators/ 
trustees. It says it no longer holds all the records relating to this and has only been able to 
locate a limited number of documents, mostly relating to the life policies. Barclays says that 
even though the borrower of the loans is unclear it believes the trustees had an insurable 
interest in R and it was therefore not unsuitable to arrange the life policies as protection for 
the loans. 
Although Barclays considers the loans were suitable, it did however partially uphold the 
complaint. This is because there was a delay in the 2000 loan starting but the life policies 
werent delayed. So the life policies started too soon and provided protection for a period 
that wasnt required. And when the life policies should have actually started a lower amount 
of cover was required, as the outstanding balances on the previous loans (that would also be 
covered by the new policies) had decreased. 
Barclays offered to pay approximately £2,500 and £1,000, plus interest, for the policies 
starting too soon and for providing too much cover. Barclays also explained that had the 
loans and policies run their intended term the policies would have ended too early and left 
inadequate levels of protection for the remaining period of the loans. But as the life policies 
have since been cancelled this would no longer be an issue. 
Barclays also offered £250 for the inconvenience caused by the length of time it took to 
consider the complaint. 
Mr B accepted the compensation offered by Barclays relating to the points above but 
remained unhappy that all of the life cover costs were not refunded. He still believes that the 
policies should not have been sold and that all policy premiums should therefore be 
refunded. Mr B referred the complaint to our service, where it was considered by an 
investigator. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint and as the complaint could not be resolved 
informally it has now been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete or perhaps contradictory, as it is in this case, I have 
reached my conclusions based on the balance of probabilities. 
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context.
Having considered all that the parties have said and provided I have not upheld this 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will likely come as further disappointment to Mr B. 
The complaint here relates to the sale of loans and associated life policies that were sold in 
the early 1990s and early 2000s. Barclays has explained that due to the amount of 
considerable time that has passed since the sale of the loans and life cover only limited or 
partial information is available. It would of course been easier if all records relating to these 
sales were available and presented for consideration. However, I think it would be 
unreasonable in the circumstances here to blame Barclays for not being able to present full 
records for each sale. There are strict rules about retaining personal data of customers I can 
understand why some of the information is no longer available, approximately 30 years later 
in some instances. 
There is no dispute that R was looking to borrow money, or that it received, benefitted from 
and repaid that money. The issue here is that Mr B argues that he doesnt believe there was any need for the life policies to be taken out in the individuals names at the time each loan 
was granted. It appears that this may be driven by the letter from the Charity Commission 
where it questioned why R was paying the life cover costs of the individuals. And that the 
letter indicates that the individuals had no personal liability for the loans. 
I have considered the letter from the Charity Commission but havent been presented with 
anything further from around that time that indicates what further discussions took place, any 
conclusions reached or what actions took place. Having considered the letter, along with the 
broader circumstances here, I think there are different issues relating to the general liabilities 
of charity trustees and the requirements of Barclays to have protection in place to repay the 
loans. I accept what the Charity Commission says about the general liabilities of trustees of 
a charity and that these are structured in such a way to ensure the trustees are not 
personally liable. 
However, Barclays has said that when these loans were applied for it was a condition of the 
bank that sufficient life cover was in place to ensure the loans were repaid in the event of 
death. It is for the bank to determine the conditions upon which it decides to lend and if 
accompanying life cover is required to cover that lending. It would not be for me or this 
service to say that Barclays should have agreed to lend without the associated protection in 
place. 
The requirement of life cover is to ensure that the loans would be repaid in the event of 
death of the borrower. Without sufficient life cover the bank might be left in the position 
where there was no ability to repay the outstanding borrowing, which is something the bank 
would seek to avoid. As referred to above it is not entirely clear whether or not the loans 
were in the name of R or the individuals. But Im not persuaded this is crucial to determining 
a fair outcome of this complaint. The life cover was taken out in the name of the trustees, or 
administrators as I understand it for the earlier loans. Barclays states that this is because the 
trustees were an integral part of the charity and played a significant role within the charity, 
including the ability to generate or encourage donations to the charity. Barclays argues that 
in the event of death of the trustees, individually or collectively, this would have had a 
significant impact on the charity and therefore the ability to repay the loans. This is similar to 
what is more commonly known as key man cover for a business where senior individuals 
are insured against death or injury. 
Having considered the circumstances here I am not persuaded that the bank acted 
unreasonably in requiring life cover for protection of the loans. There does appear to be an 
insurable interest for the trustees and notwithstanding this, it was a requirement of the 
lending that sufficient life cover was in place. Without sufficient life cover Barclays would not 
have agreed to lend to R. 
There were some issues relating to the start date and amount of cover for some policies but 
as Mr B has accepted Barclays offer in relation to those points I need not comment on them 
further here. 
Mr B has referred to commission payments being made on the sale of the life policies and 
feels the non-disclosure of the commission has created an unfair relationship. Mr B feels the 
principles established in the court judgment of Plevin V Paragon Personal Finance Limited 
are applicable to this complaint. The underlying legislation that applies to the judgment is 
S140 Consumer Credit Act (CCA). This section refers to unfair relationships. Very briefly, the 
judgment found that the amount of commission, paid to the broker and lender (Paragon) was 
at such a high level (71.8% of the cost of the policy) that it shouldve been made clear to Mrs 
Plevin, even though there werent specific rules or regulations in place to say they had to do 
this. The court found that if Mrs Plevin had known how much of her PPI premium was made 
up of commission, she would have likely questioned whether the policy was value for money.The unfair relationships test under S140 CCA has applied since 6 April 2007. It applies to 
credit agreements covered by the Act, including those taken out before 6 April 2007, as long 
as they were still in force on 6 April 2008. But it does not apply to all types of lending. Even if 
I were to establish that S140 CCA applied in this case Id then need to consider whether any 
commission was paid and if so, if it was disclosed. Barclays has been unable to confirm if 
any commission was paid in relation to the sale of the early 1990 policies. This is because of 
the passage of time and that it simply doesnt hold records going back this far. As set out 
above, I dont think this is unreasonable considering the time that has now elapsed. Without 
knowing if any commission was paid, or what that amount was, or having sight of all of the 
documentation, I cannot determine if there was actually any secret or undisclosed 
commission. 
Barclays has provided some commission information relating to the policies sold in 2000, but 
it is again unable to determine the exact amount of commission paid for the policies.  
An illustration document for one of the policies states: 
For arranging this plan, [the life assurance company] will pay commission and 
provide services to support the advice (which amongst other things includes 
administration and technical support, office accommodation and computer 
equipment) to Barclays Bank Plc to the value of £1,830.
The illustration for the second policy states: 
For arranging this plan, [the life assurance company] will pay commission and 
provide services to support the advice (which amongst other things includes 
administration and technical support, office accommodation and computer 
equipment) to Barclays Bank PLC to the value of £1,010.
While I cannot be certain if this was the amount of commission actually paid for the policies it 
was however set out in the policy illustrations that I understand would have been provided 
before the policies were taken out. Having considered, what I accept is somewhat limited 
information, it does appear that there was a disclosure of the commission amounts and it 
was not, unlike Plevin V Paragon Personal Finance Limited, secret or undisclosed 
commission.  
As the commission amounts appear to have been disclosed at the time of the application it 
would have been for the policyholders, i.e. the trustees, to have questioned or challenged 
the level of commission payments if they were unhappy with them. I havent seen anything to 
indicate this was the case though. 
Having considered the specific circumstances here and compared them with those of Plevin 
V Paragon Personal Finance Limited there are significant differences between them. In 
particular, the lack of information relating to the earlier sales and the disclosure of the 
commission amounts in the later policy sales. I havent established if S140 CCA does 
actually apply in this case but for the reasons set out here, I dont believe its necessary to 
do so as even if S140 does apply I dont consider there to be sufficient grounds to uphold the 
complaint on this basis. 
Finally, Mr B argues that the life policies were cancelled as a result of the letter from the 
Charity Commission suggesting there was no need for the policies and questioning why R 
was responsible for the life policy premiums. The letter from the Charity Commission is from 
2003 but I understand the life policies ended in 2006. I accept it is likely that the letter 
generated further discussion between the trustees and the bank, but I havent seen evidence 
of what those discussions actually were. Considering the time between the letter and when the policies were cancelled I think it is however unlikely the policies were cancelled as a 
direct result of that letter. 
Barclays has indicated that its position around protection for lending ended after 2000 and it 
was no longer a condition of the lending that sufficient life cover was in place. It is possible 
that as life cover was no longer necessary for the loans it was decided to simply cancel the 
cover. Barclays changing its policy or lending conditions after the loans were originally 
granted does not demonstrate that the life policies were missold. As referred to above, it 
would be for Barclays to set any lending conditions and it would not be for me or this service 
to say it was unreasonable if it was a condition of the lending that life cover was required. 
I cannot say with any certainty why the policies were cancelled when they were and I havent 
seen anything to indicate the cancellation demonstrates the policies were missold in the first 
place. 
My final decision
I am grateful for Mr B for taking the time to present this complaint and I appreciate his 
patience while the complaint has been considered. The absence of documentation has not 
been helpful, but this is because of the passage of time and not something Barclays can be 
responsible for. From the information provided in this case I am not persuaded that Barclays 
acted unreasonably or unfairly when arranging the policies to cover the loans.  
While again I appreciate Mr B will remain unhappy with the decision I have reached here, for 
the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I have not upheld this complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman