DRN-4329656
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Soteria Insurance Limited declining her claim for subsidence and 
about how a previous claim was handled.  
What happened
Mrs Fs home is insured with Soteria and has been for many years. In 2002 her house 
suffered damage due to subsidence and so Mrs F claimed on her policy. The claim was 
accepted, and repairs carried out to the house. 
In 2019, Mrs F had an extension built. In 2020 Mrs F reported cracks in the side of her house 
and so contacted Soteria to raise a claim for subsidence. Soteria reviewed the claim and 
turned it down. It said the cracks to the house werent consistent with subsidence. Mrs F 
didnt agree and asked for another review of the claim. She also provided a report on her 
house which recommended her house be underpinned. 
Following Mrs F disagreement and report on her house, Soterias decided to carry out 
monitoring to determine whether it was suffering from subsidence. The monitoring 
determined the property wasnt suffering from subsidence and so, in 2022, Soteria declined 
Mrs Fs claim again. Mrs F didnt agree and complained. She said her property had suffered 
subsidence in 2002 and Soteria hadnt repaired it correctly and didnt think her claim had 
been fairly handled.
Soteria reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said there was no evidence to show 
Mrs Fs property was suffering from subsidence and so didnt agree an insured event had 
occurred. It also said it didnt have records of the 2002 claim, but said, as it hadnt suffered 
any issues for almost 20 years it felt the repair must have been lasting and effective. 
However, Soteria did agree it hadnt responded to Mrs F as it should have and paid her £100 
compensation. Mrs F didnt agree and referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
while the claim had taken some time this was down to the initial outcome not being accepted 
and monitoring needing to be carried out. Our investigator also agreed there wasnt an event 
covered by the policy, as the reports didnt show Mrs Fs house is most likely suffering from 
subsidence. Our investigator also didnt find there was sufficient evidence to show the repair 
carried out in 2002 wasnt lasting and effective. Mrs F didnt agree, she asked why her policy 
had the subsidence clause removed from it for the last two years and that, due to having a 
subsidence claim recorded, it had prevented her finding alternative cover elsewhere. Mrs F 
also explained due to her health the delay in the claim had caused her significant distress 
and inconvenience. 
As Mrs F didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs F. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
The crux of Mrs Fs complaint is that she believes her property is suffering from subsidence 
now and/or the previous repair in 2002 hasnt been done correctly. For simplicity I will 
address the issues in chronological order. Its not in dispute that Mrs Fs policy covers her for 
subsidence, so I see no need to comment on that further. 
For the 2002 claim, Soteria has confirmed that due to the length of time since the claim it no 
longer has any records. Given the claim was around 20 years ago this isnt unreasonable. 
However, Mrs F has provided documents from 2002 which shows she had a successful 
claim for subsidence, but it was deemed that underpinning wasnt necessary. As this letter 
appears to show there was a successful subsidence claim, it would therefore be reasonable 
for it to have been recorded and to show on Mrs Fs claim record. Im therefore not 
persuaded Soteria has done anything wrong by recording the 2002 claim as subsidence.
In 2020, Mrs F raised a new claim for subsidence as her property had cracks in the wall. 
This was following an extension which was built in 2019. When the claim was assessed, it 
was determined that due to the type of cracking that it wasnt subsidence. Mrs F didnt agree 
with this and obtained a report on her property. Ive reviewed this report and it does 
recommend the house is underpinned, but it doesnt confirm Mrs Fs house has subsidence 
or say that this is most likely the cause of the cracks. Im therefore not persuaded this shows 
Mrs Fs house has suffered an event which is covered by the policy. 
I can also see there was monitoring carried out on Mrs Fs property following the report she 
had produced, and the monitoring doesnt show the house is suffering from subsidence. 
When taking Mrs Fs report and the reports carried out by Soteria into account, its clear Mrs 
Fs house needed work, but Im not persuaded they show it related to something covered by 
her policy. Im therefore not going to tell Soteria to do anything else in relation to her 
subsidence claim. 
I have also considered Mrs Fs point that the previous repair in 2002 wasnt a lasting and 
effective repair. While I can understand Mrs Fs point, Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to show the repair in 2002 is related to the issues which caused the cracking which 
was reported in 2020. I say this because none of the reports say this, and I also have to 
consider that the repair was done almost 20 years before this cracking developed. It would 
therefore appear that the repair in 2002 has lasted and Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to say Soteria didnt do a lasting and effective repair in 2002, as it needed too.
Ive also considered Mrs Fs complaint about the poor claim handling. I can see the most 
recent subsidence claim has taken over a year, however, I can also see this is because the 
initial claim outcome wasnt accepted and then monitoring was required. Im therefore not 
persuaded that Soteria has caused significant unnecessary delays. 
I can see however there has been poor claim handling by Soteria, particularly around not 
responding to Mrs F. Soteria has paid Mrs F £100 for the distress and inconvenience this 
has caused. Mrs F explained this isnt enough due to her suffering from depression and the 
way the lack of communication made her feel. Ive considered this carefully and while I have 
taken into consideration of how Mrs F felt due to Soterias poor claim handling, Im not going 
to tell it to pay any more.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman