DRN-3664878
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) have
increased the interest rate on his account and the service hed received from Amex when
questioning that interest rate increase.
What happened
Mr E received a letter from Amex which appeared to explain that Amex had decided to
increase the interest rate on his account following a review of his credit file. Mr E wasnt
happy about this, especially as he felt the position of his credit file didnt justify such an
interest rate increase, so he raised a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Es complaint. They didnt rule out the possibility that information from Mr
Es credit file had been considered when electing to increase the interest rate, but they felt
the interest rate increase was permitted by the account terms and conditions and that theyd
followed an appropriate process in raising the interest rate. So, they didnt uphold Mr Es
complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our
investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Amex had acted unfairly
towards Mr E in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold the
complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 August 2022 as follows:
Its clear that the initial letter sent to Mr E by Amex, dated 24 June 2021,
does suggest that Amexs decision to increase the interest rate on Mr Es credit 
account was made following a review of Mr Es credit file, as per the following:
We review Cardmember Accounts on a regular basis to determine whether 
the risk profile of certain Accounts means that there is a greater likelihood that 
certain Cardmembers might not be able to repay us. Following a recent 
review, we have decided to increase the Personal Interest Rate on your 
Account.
Furthermore, when Mr E raised a complaint with Amex about this, stating his belief 
that the excellent position of his credit rating meant that Amexs decision to increase 
the interest rate on his account following a review of his credit rating wasnt justified, 
Amexs response included the following:
Its not always practical to isolate the factors that may have been responsible 
for this decision. However, it is possible that information from your external 
credit file may have been taken into consideration.
So, its understandable to me that Mr E would believe that Amex made the decision 
to increase the interest rate on his account as a result of Amex reviewing his credit 
file.
However, in their correspondence with this service, Amex have stated that it wasnt 
the case that the interest rate was increased following a review of Mr Es credit file, 
but rather that the interest rate was increased as part of a wider move by Amex to 
increase the interest rates across all products for all Card Members.
While I can appreciate how the above might be confusing to me E, Im satisfied that 
the terms of the credit agreement he entered into with Amex allow Amex to increase 
the interest rate on his account without the requirement to provide an explanation as 
to why, as follows:
As this agreement is not for a fixed period, were likely to need to make 
changes to interest rates, fees and other terms and the services we provide 
for reasons we cant predict when the agreement was made.
Weve set out some specific reasons for making changes to the agreement 
but if any of these dont apply we may still make a change as long as we tell 
you in advance about the change and make clear that you can end the 
agreement without charge if you dont want to accept the change.
And the credit agreement also includes the following:
If were increasing your interest rate because we are increasing your 
Personal Rate well give you at least 60 days advance notice of the change 
and youll be able to opt out of the increase by notifying us before it takes 
effect.
In this instance, Im satisfied that the letter that Amex sent Mr E dated 24 June 2021 
did give him 60 days advance notice, as well as the option to end the agreement 
without charge if he didnt want to accept the interest rate rise. So, Im satisfied that 
Amex did increase the interest rate in line with the terms of the credit agreement and 
that it wasnt a requirement of those terms for a reason for the increase to be given.
However, as explained above, while Amex werent obliged to provide a reason for 
increasing the interest rate on Mr Es account, in this instance they did give him a 
reason  that it was a decision made following a review of his credit file. And while 
Amex now state that this was the wrong reason, I feel that Mr E has been 
inconvenienced by his challenging Amex about the reason for the interest rate 
increase  which Mr E felt wasnt justified, and which Mr E wouldnt have had reason 
to challenge if Amex hadnt given him what they now say was the wrong reason for 
the interest rate increase in either the first or second instance.
So, while I wont be asking Amex to change the interest rate on Mr Es account, given 
that Im satisfied they were entitled to raise it and that they followed a process in 
doing so thats permitted by the credit agreement, I do feel that Mr E has been 
unfairly inconvenienced by being given incorrect information as to the reason for the 
interest rate increase by Amex.All of which means that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Es favour 
on that limited basis only, with my provisional instruction to Amex being that they 
must make a payment of £150 to Mr E which I feel fairly compensates him for the 
trouble and upset that hes incurred here.
In response to my provisional decision, Amex stated that they feel that no incorrect 
information was given to Mr E. However, I can only refer Amex to my provisional decision 
above which I feel highlights why Mr E would have reasonably believed that Amex had 
increased the interest rate on his account as a direct consequence of Amex reviewing his 
credit file. 
Id also like to refer Amex to their own submission to this service within which Amex 
specifically confirmed that it wasnt the case that the credit limit was increased because of a 
review of Mr Es credit file, but as a result of a wider implementation of credit limit increases 
across all products for all Card Members.
As such, Im satisfied that the reasoning behind my provisional decision remains valid, and I 
therefore confirm that my final decision will be that Im upholding this complaint in Mr Es 
favour on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Amex must make a payment of £150 to Mr E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services
Europe Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman