DRN-2455247
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Halifaxs records show 
that the policy was added to Mr Cs credit card account when he applied for the card in 
person, at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs signed application form for the credit card. It includes a box to 
mark if the applicant wishes to take out Credit Card Repayment Insurance (PPI). 
Theres a cross in the box to indicate that Mr C wished to take the cover. I accept that it 
looks as if the cross may have been printed, along with the personal details on the form. 
But I think its more likely than not that this followed a discussion between Mr C and 
Halifax's adviser, and the box was marked because Mr C said he wished to take the 
cover.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that it would have been clear to 
Mr C that the PPI was optional, and I think he chose to take it.
Mr Cs told us Halifax didnt give him advice or recommended the PPI to him. But Halifax 
says it would have recommended the cover. And for the purposes of this decision Ive 
assumed thats right. This is to Mr Cs advantage when it comes to considering his 
complaint, as it means Halifax had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for 
him. But Ive seen nothing to make me think it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen 
of Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
Mr Cs told us he cant remember whether hed have been entitled to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay from his employer at the time. If hed made a successful claim on the 
PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have helped with his monthly credit 
card payments until the balance when he claimed had been cleared, or until he returned 
to work- whichever was earlier. Even if Mr C would have been entitled to some sick pay 
from his employer, I think its likely that the policy would potentially have paid out for 
longer than hed have been entitled to full pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Mr C received. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt have needed to use any 
savings he had to make his monthly credit card repayments.
Ive borne in mind that Mr Cs told us his family could have helped him financially if 
necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mr Cs family would have 
been in a position to help if the need had arisen. So taking everything into account, 
I think the policy could have been useful to him.
I accept that its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr C chose to take out 
the policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on the information Mr Cs provided, it 
doesn't look as if he was affected by the main things the policy didn't cover.
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Mr C was 
paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover. 
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Mr C would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have taken 
out the policy.
This means Halifax doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Halifax 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Halifax didn't tell Mr C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI wasn't mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) doesn't have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman