DRN-4071858
The complaint
Mr G complains Monzo Bank Ltd has refused to refund gambling transactions debited from 
his account while he had a gambling block turned on.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with Monzo, and in late June 2022 he turned on the gambling 
block for his account. Despite the block being in place, Mr G spent just over £400 on 
gambling across two days in mid-July 2022. 
Mr G flagged the gambling transactions with Monzo in late July 2022. However, they said he 
couldnt claim the funds back because he hadnt made the transactions by mistake. But they 
said they would place a block on the gambling company so that he couldnt make gambling 
transactions with them again.
In February 2023, Mr G reached out to Monzo again and explained he was struggling 
financially. He mentioned he had a problem with gambling and had been struggling with his 
mental health. Mr G also asked for the July 2022 gambling transactions to be refunded.
Monzo issued their final response at the start of March 2023. In this they explained they 
wouldnt be refunding the gambling transactions despite a gambling block being in place. 
That was because the block only works on transactions if the retailer used the merchant 
code for gambling transactions, and that didnt happen for the transactions Mr G had 
complained about. Mr G remained unhappy with Monzo, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed that Monzos gambling block only worked on transactions where the gambling 
merchant code was used. And as that merchant code wasnt used for the July 2022 
transactions, she didnt think Monzo had treated Mr G unfairly. 
As Mr G disagreed with our Investigator, his complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
Its not disputed that Mr G has had a gambling block in place since June 2022, so its clear 
he wanted to utilise this form of support. But for me to decide whether Monzo treated him 
unfairly, Ive had to consider how the gambling block works and what was explained to Mr G 
when he turned it on.
Monzo has explained that the gambling block only works when a specific merchant code is 
used to identify gambling transactions. And this isnt unusual when it comes to gambling 
blocks, so I dont consider it was unreasonable for this level of support to be made available 
to Mr G. But given the limitations in the way the gambling block works, I would expect this to 
have been made clear to Mr G.
Ive seen screenshots of the message Mr G would have seen when he turned on the 
gambling block. It said:
This will automatically block any transactions related to gambling.
All transactions have a code which helps identify what kind of transaction they are, and well 
try our best to block these payments (but if they go through then youll still be liable for 
them).
Given the above, Im satisfied Monzo provided clear information about how the gambling 
block works and what would happen if gambling transactions were authorised. Therefore, 
Mr G had the information he needed to understand the limitations of the block and the fact 
he would be liable for any gambling transactions that were authorised.
Im satisfied the gambling block works for transactions with the correct merchant code 
because Monzo has sent evidence that shows gambling transactions having been 
successfully blocked. So, Ive had to understand why the transactions complained about 
were able to go through.
The July 2022 transactions complained about were with a gambling company. However, 
they didnt use the merchant code for gambling transactions. Therefore, despite the 
gambling block being in place, it wasnt able to block those particular transactions. 
Mr G was clearly going through a difficult time and had been struggling to control his 
spending when it came to gambling. So, it would have been incredibly frustrating and 
upsetting to realise he was able to use his account for gambling when he had a block in 
place. However, given the merchant code used by the gambling company, I cant fairly hold 
Monzo responsible for their systems being unable to identify and block the transactions 
complained about. Monzo doesnt have the power to dictate what merchant code different 
companies should use, so I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask them to 
refund the £434 complained about.
I am very sorry to hear about the circumstances Mr G is dealing with and would like to thank 
him for being so open with us and Monzo. In situations like this, I would expect a business, 
like Monzo, to offer their customer support. Having read Mr Gs chat history with Monzo and 
listened to recordings of calls he had with them, I was pleased to see and hear that their 
advisers were sympathetic and offered the level of support Id expect. I am also pleased to 
see that Mr G has been able to put some support in place to help him manage his finances 
moving forward.
I have seen that in July 2022, Monzo said they would block future transactions with the 
gambling company complained about. This was the right thing to do, and I would expect 
them to ensure that block has properly been put in place on their systems.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman