DRN-4019636
The complaint
Mr K complains about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) following a claim 
he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr K held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Lloyds. After his vehicle was stolen in 
February 2022, he made a claim. Lloyds accepted the claim and paid Mr K what it 
considered the market value of the vehicle in March 2022.
Mr K wasnt happy with this settlement because it didnt include VAT. He raised this with 
Lloyds who explained it thought he was VAT registered so it didnt need pay VAT on his 
settlement.
But Mr K wasnt VAT registered, and in July 2022, Lloyds paid Mr K the VAT element of his 
claim.
Mr K remained unhappy. He said the first payment wasnt enough to allow him to buy a 
replacement vehicle. So rather than losing business  because he needed a vehicle to work 
 he rented one. Hes said this cost him roughly £3,000, and he thinks Lloyds should 
reimburse him for this.
Lloyds didnt agree, so, Mr K brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He thought the VAT should have been 
paid initially when Lloyds settled the claim. And he thought it was reasonable Mr K mitigated 
his losses by renting a vehicle rather than going without work. He recommended Lloyds 
cover the rental between the two payments it made and pay Mr K £150 compensation.
Mr K agreed, but Lloyds didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why:
Theres no dispute about the value Lloyds placed on Mr Ks vehicle. The dispute 
centres around whether or not it needed to pay VAT.
Ultimately, it has now paid VAT on the claim  and Im satisfied thats the correct 
decision.
But I agree with our investigator  the VAT should have been paid initially when the 
claim was settled in March 2022.
The impact of not paying the VAT, Mr K says, is that he wasnt able to afford another 
similar van. And that seems plausible. VAT is a considerable proportion of the price 
of goods. So, to receive a settlement without VAT, and then need to purchase a 
vehicle with VAT included would have been difficult.
Mr K needed the vehicle for work. So rather than go without work, he rented a van to 
allow him to continue working. I think thats a reasonable decision. But its likely not 
something hed have had to do had Lloyds paid the VAT element initially as it should 
have done.
So, Lloyds should reimburse Mr K £3,510 for the amount he spent on renting a 
replacement vehicle between the two settlements it made - in March and July. It 
should also add 8% simple interest too this.
It would have also been inconvenient having to source a temporary replacement 
hand have to chase the VAT element of your claim. I find that would be more 
inconvenient than the natural inconvenience of simply making a claim and needed to 
source a replacement following the theft of your vehicle. So, Lloyds should pay Mr K 
£150 compensation to recognise this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyd's to:
Reimburse Mr K £3,510 for the amount he spent on renting an alternative vehicle. 
8% simple interest should be added to this payment. Interest should be calculated 
from the date Mr K paid the rental company to the date Society of Lloyd's pays him.
Pay Mr K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman