DRN-3410760
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC transferred his account to a third-party debt 
collection agency. Mr S is also unhappy with how Barclays attempted to contact him about 
the arrears on his account.
What happened
Mr S had a Barclays loan account that fell into arrears and which was defaulted by Barclays 
in 2019. In February 2020, following a conversation with Mr S, Barclays agreed to a twelve-
month collections hold on the account which would allow Mr S to make payments to reduce 
the default balance that were comfortable for him.
In February 2021, the twelve-month collections hold came to an end. Barclays tried to 
contact Mr S to discuss a way forwards with the default balance, but Mr S wasnt able to 
speak with Barclays during the day and requested to be contacted after 5pm. However, 
Barclays continued to try to telephone Mr S during the day, before 5pm. Mr S wasnt happy 
about this, and he also wasnt happy that Barclays transferred his account to a third-party 
debt collection agency without notifying him. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint. They felt they were within their rights to have 
transferred Mr Ss account to a debt collection agency, but they accepted that they hadnt 
followed Mr Ss instructions to contact him after 5pm on several occasions and so they 
offered to make a payment of £50 to Mr S by way of compensation for this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr S by transferring his account to a debt collection agency, and they felt 
that the £50 the Barclays had already offered to Mr S for not calling him after 5pm already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so it seems clear from the contact notes supplied by Barclays that, following 
the defaulting of the account in 2019, Mr S wanted to make repayments of £80 per month to 
clear the outstanding default balance. However, its also apparent that Barclays advised     
Mr S that in order to accept such a payment plan they would need to undertake a review of 
Mr Ss income and expenditure so as to assess the affordability of that plan for him.
This is what would be expected of Barclays under these circumstances, and one reason for 
this is that credit providers such as Barclays are required to ensure that any offer of payment 
made by a customer is affordable for that customer, especially when its known that a 
customer is experiencing financial difficulty  which given that Mr Ss account had defaulted, 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to have understood Mr S was.
In this instance, Mr S couldnt go through an income and expenditure assessment with 
Barclays, and this resulted in Mr S being given a 12-month collections hold by Barclays 
which began in February 2020. Under this plan, Mr S wasnt required to make any payment 
towards the balance for the 12-month duration of the plan, although he was free to make 
payments if he was able to do so.
When the 12-month collections hold ended in February 2021, Mr Ss account because 
subject to Barclays standard processes, which included the possibility for Mr Ss defaulted 
account to be transferred by Barclays to a debt collection agency.
However, given that Mr Ss account had been on a 12-month collections hold, it would be 
expected that Barclays would have attempted to contact Mr S to refresh their understanding 
of his financial position at that time, before taking any further action on the account.
Im satisfied that Barclays did that here, and I say this because its clear that it was for this 
reason  to get an updated understanding of his financial position  that Barclays attempted 
to contact Mr S, both by post and by telephone, following the end of the 12-month 
collections hold in February 2021.
Im aware that Mr S feels that because he was making payments to the account of £80 per 
month that Barclays should have continued to honour a payment plan at that amount. But as 
explained above, such a payment plan was never formally agreed  because Mr S wasnt 
able to undertake an income and expenditure assessment to allow such an agreement.
And, because Mr S wasnt able to speak with Barclays or undertake an income and 
expenditure assessment with them when Barclays tried to contact him following the end of 
the 12-month collections hold, this meant that Mr Ss account remained subject to Barclays 
standard processes regarding defaulted accounts. 
This ultimately resulted in Mr Ss account being transferred by Barclays to a third-party debt 
collection agency, and given all that Ive explained above, while I can appreciate that Mr S 
might be unhappy at the transferal of the account, I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays 
have acted unfairly towards Mr S by effecting such a transfer. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S is also unhappy that Barclays continued to attempt to contact him by telephone to try to 
update their understanding of his financial position with him before 5pm, after he had 
specifically instructed them to only contact him after 5pm. 
Barclays have acknowledged that they didnt implement Mr Ss contact request as quickly as 
they should have done here and theyve offered to make a payment of £50 to Mr S as 
compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But I feel that 
Barclays were trying to contact Mr S for a legitimate reason here, which given that they were 
attempting to gain an understanding of Mr Ss financial position so as to assess whether any 
further financial assistance might be merited, had Mr Ss best interests in mind. 
Im aware that Mr S feels that Barclays actions in this regard should be construed as 
harassment. But I note that Barclays didnt attempt to contact Mr S excessively on any given 
day, only making a maximum of three attempted calls per day. Such a frequency of attempted calls doesnt feel unreasonable to me given the circumstances as explained 
above, and as such I dont feel that Barclays have harassed Mr S as Mr S contends.
Finally, Mr S has explained that, by attempting to contact him at times that hed already 
explained he wasnt available, that Barclays have negatively affected his mental health. I can 
appreciate Mr Ss position here, and I can confirm that Ive taken it into consideration when 
arriving at my decision as outlined above. 
Barclays have confirmed that they had record that Mr S was suffering with depression when 
they spoke with him before implementing the 12-month collections hold in February 2020. 
But Barclays were in a difficult position following the end of the 12-months collections hold, 
and had to balance their understanding of Mr Ss prior depression with their obligations to try 
to contact Mr S so as to provide him with the opportunity to provide updated information to 
Barclays that may have resulted in further financial assistance being offered to him.
Ultimately, I feel that Barclays were acting reasonably in trying to contact Mr S, for the 
reasons explained above. And while I acknowledge that Barclays should have restricted their 
telephone contact attempts following their being asked to by Mr S, I feel that the £50 that 
Barclays have already offered to Mr S relating to this matter already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mr Ss complaint  and I can confirm that the offer of 
£50 compensation by Barclays is commensurate with what I would have instructed Barclays 
to pay to Mr S, had they not already offered to do so.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at 
this time beyond that to which theyve already offered. I hope that Mr S will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman