DRN-3472616
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a margin rate to a 
currency exchange without prior notice.
What happened
Mr W contacted Barclays by online chat and asked whether he could receive US Dollars into 
his current account and what exchange rate and fees he would incur. Barclays explained 
that hed incur a fee of £6, but that the actual exchange rate couldnt be determined until the 
time of the currency exchange. However, when Mrs W and Mr W received the US Dollars 
into the current account, they noticed that Barclays applied a margin of 1.4% to the 
exchange rate to GBP which equated to a loss for Mrs W and Mr W of approximately £1,650. 
Mrs W and Mr W werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. But they felt that the margin had applied 
correctly to the currency exchange, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr W 
werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mrs W and Mr W in how theyd applied the margin to the exchange rate, and 
so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that the question that Mr W asked Barclays in the online chat 
was as follows:
Can I receive USD into my current account and what fees and rate will I get?
Barclays responded to Mr Ws question by advising that a £6 fee would be incurred and that 
they were unable to confirm the rate until the time of the exchange because of the fluctuating 
nature of international currency exchange rates.
Im aware that Mrs W and Mr W feel that by asking the question that they did, that Barclays 
should have made them aware of any margin that would be applied to the exchange rate.
But Mr W asked about fees and the rate and didnt specifically ask whether a margin would 
be applied by Barclays. And Barclays agent responded by advising about the fees and the 
rate, as per Mr Ws question.
Additionally, given that the applying of a margin to exchange rates by financial institutions 
such as Barclays is a common practice, I dont feel that Barclays agent should have 
necessarily understood that Mr W might not have been aware that margin would be applied, 
given that he hadnt specifically asked about it but had instead asked about fees and rates. 
If Mr W had asked about margin, I feel that Barclays agent would in all likelihood have 
answered that question and advised Mr W of the margin that might be applied. 
So, I dont feel that Barclays agent has misinformed Mr W here as Mrs W and Mr W contend, 
but rather that Barclays agent answered the question that was asked of them.
It also must be noted that the option existed for Mrs W and Mr W to have requested an 
indicative exchange calculation which would have described what amount of GBP would 
have been received by them at the time of the calculation, and which would have included 
the margin that Barclays would and did apply.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mrs W and Mr 
W here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Barclays to take any further action at this time.
Finally, Mrs W and Mr W have stated they want Barclays to reimburse the £1,650 calculated 
margin amount back to them. However, even if I were to uphold this complaint, its doubtful 
that I would instruct Barclays to reimburse this amount as Mrs W and Mr W would like. 
This is because, as explained previously, the application of such margin is common practice, 
and so its unlikely that Mrs W and Mr W would be able to achieve the exchange of such a 
large amount of USD to GBP without the application of such margin (or a similar charge in 
the absence of such margin) if the money were routed into the UK by Mrs W and Mr W via 
an alternative channel.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs W and Mr W were wanting, but I hope that 
theyll understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman