DRN-2497800
The complaint
Mr F complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL), applied unfair charges when 
he returned his car after terminating the hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr F purchased a used car with a hire purchase agreement that he took out 
with SMFL. And in July 2019 he voluntarily terminated the hire purchase agreement. Mr F 
told us:
although the car was collected on 18 July 2019 by a third party, it wasnt inspected 
until 19 August 2019; 32 days later. And he wasnt advised of its findings until 
29 August 2019;
the report identified 11 areas of damage or poor maintenance at a cost of £945;
he complained to SMFL because hed left them with a clean, well-maintained vehicle, 
and he didnt agree with the inspection report;
he cant be held liable for these things when the car was driven more than 100 miles 
from his house when it was collected, and it was then left unattended in a compound 
or auction yard for more than five weeks.
SMFL rejected Mr Fs complaint. But it did accept that there will be a certain amount of wear 
and tear incurred during the time you had the vehicleand the cost of repairs to an older 
vehicle will be less than that for one which is nearly new.
SMFL reviewed the charges and agreed to reduce them from £945.10 to £415.55, made up 
as follows:
1. £65.19 for broken sun visor
2. £43.78 for a missing puncture repair kit
3. £51.00 for scuffed front left alloy wheel
4. £213.08 for water ingress to front right headlamp.
5. £42.50 for soiled upholstery
Our investigator looked at this complaint and asked SMFL to remove the charge associated 
with the soiled upholstery (5) because she couldnt see evidence of it on the photographs 
that had been supplied. SMFL agreed and it reduced the total charge to £373.05.
Our investigator explained that shed carefully considered the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines which set out the standards for what constitutes fair 
wear and tear. And she thought it was fair for SMFL to make a charge in respect of (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) because these damages fell outside the definition of fair wear and tear.
Mr F disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he accepts that the sun 
visor is broken and that the front left alloy wheel is scuffed. But he disputes the two other 
charges. And hes sent in photographs of the car that he says contradict SMFLs position.
My initial conclusions, are set out in my provisional decision from December 2020. In my 
provisional decision I said I thought SMFL should reduce its post return charges to Mr F to 
£159.97 and I explained my reasons for this as follows:
 
Where theres no evidence on any particular point, or the evidence is unclear or disputed, 
Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is whats more likely to have 
happened taking into account the circumstances of this particular case.
Mr F decided to voluntary terminate his hire purchase agreement with effect from 23 July 
2019. Under section 10.1.3 of the hire purchase agreement that hed signed with SMPL, 
Mr F had agreed that the vehicle was to be returned in good condition and in a state which 
shows you have complied with your obligations to maintain it under the agreement.. And 
Section 10.1.6 states you will pay us the cost of repairs needed to put the Vehicle into good 
repair and condition.
Its clear from this that Mr F was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the 
question is whether all the charges applied by SMPL are fair and reasonable.
The inspection report in this case was prepared in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. These are the industry accepted standards for 
assessing wear and tear and damage, so I think its reasonable to place considerable weight 
on its conclusions.
Its also the case, however that at the time of inspection the car was more than five years 
old; it had done more than 45,000 miles; and it had one previous owner prior to Mr F. Its 
inevitable that an older car with a higher mileage is unlikely to be in the same general 
condition as a newer car, or even one with a much lower mileage. And I note SMFL appears 
to have taken a similar approach when it reviewed the charges in the inspection report and 
made a significant reduction, taking into account the cars age and mileage.
I dont need to make a finding in respect of charge (1) broken sun visor, or charge (3) 
scuffed front left alloy wheel. This is because both parties accept the sun visor is broken and 
the front left alloy wheel is scuffed, so both of these charges are fair and reasonable. My 
findings, therefore, relate to the two disputed charges.
Missing puncture repair kit
Mr F says the puncture repair kit wasnt in the car when he purchased it. He says the car 
never had one and hes only required to replace items required by law, so he doesnt think 
SMFL should charge him for this item.
Ive considered this carefully, but I have to tell Mr F that I dont agree with him. His obligation 
was to return the car in good condition and, if that didnt happen, then he agreed to pay the 
associated costs to return it to good condition when he signed his agreement. And the 
puncture repair kit, like any other item supplied with the vehicle needed to be present when 
the vehicle was returned.
The parties dont agree about the presence of the puncture repair kit when Mr F acquired the 
car. But I think its more likely than not that it was present otherwise Id have expected this to 
have been picked up at the time and noted on the paperwork. If Mr F can provide me with 
more information to support his position, Ill take this into account in my final decision. But on 
the information thats available, I dont think its unreasonable for SMFL to charge for the 
replacement of the puncture repair kit.Water ingress to front right headlamp.
The parties dont agree about the front right headlamp and whether there was water ingress.
SMFL says theres water ingress to the front right headlamp and its provided a photograph 
taken by the third party that prepared the inspection report.
But Ive also been given a number of photographs taken by Mr F just before the car was 
collected. These photographs are taken from a number of angles and are date stamped 
17 July 2019  so immediately before the car was collected by the third party on 18 July 
2019. Ive studied these photographs carefully, and there isnt any evidence of water, 
moisture or condensation in either headlamp.
Ive considered the evidence carefully, and I find Mr Fs photographs to be more compelling. 
Theres several of them, they are taken from a number of angles, and they appear to have 
been taken the evening before the car was collected. On the other hand, SMFLs single 
photograph was taken around 5 weeks later; after the car had been left in a compound or 
auction yard for some time.
The car was driven a considerable distance when it was collected from Mr F. And its my 
understanding that the way in which a headlamp unit cools after its been turned off can 
result in air and moisture being drawn in through vents in the housing and this can condense 
on the inside of the housing. But once the car is moving again, or the headlamps are turned 
on, the moisture evaporates.
If SMFL can provide me with more information to support its position, Ill take this into 
account in my final decision. But on the information thats available, I dont think its 
reasonable for SMFL to charge for water ingress to the front right headlamp.
In summary, Ive taken in account the BVRLA guidelines, the inspection report and the 
evidence provided by both SMFL and Mr F. And having done so, I think that Mr F should be 
responsible for the following charges but not for anything else:
Broken sunvisor £65.19
Missing puncture repair kit £43.78
Scuffed front left alloy wheel £51.00
£159.97
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, 
and SMFL has said it accepts the provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
Putting things right
Startline Motor Finance Limited must reduce its post return charged to Mr F to £159.97.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Startline Motor Finance Limited to reduce its post return charges to Mr F to £159.97.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman