DRN-3403823
The complaint
Mr C complains that four personal loans provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, 
trading as Everyday Loans, (ELL), were unaffordable. He also complains that ELL refused 
to give him a Covid payment break.
What happened
Mr C was given four loans by ELL from April 2017 to November 2019. Loan 2 was used to 
repay Loan 1, Loan 3 was used to repay Loan 2 and Loan 4 was used to repay Loan 3. 
According to the most recent information Ive seen, Loan 4 hasnt been repaid. A summary 
of Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Date of loan 
repaymentLoan 
amountNumber of 
monthly 
repaymentsHighest 
monthly 
repayment 
1. 13/4/2017 13/10/2017 £1,500 24 £137.49
2. 13/10/2017 28/9/2018 £4,000 36 £335.21
3. 28/9/2018 27/11/2019 £10,000 48 £434.68
4. 27/11/2019 Unpaid £10,000 48 £435.59
Mr C said that he initially had one loan for £1,500. Then ELL offered him a loan for £2,000, 
then a further loan for £10,000 and then another loan for £10,000. He said this was 
unaffordable lending and the loans put him in financial difficulties. Mr C also said that hed 
asked for a Covid payment break in 2020 which ELL refused. 
In its final response letter, ELL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint about unaffordable lending. It 
provided details about its checks on each loan. ELL said that considering everything, it 
believed the checks it completed were reasonable and proportionate and that the loans were 
sustainable over their respective terms as Mr C had disposable income. With regard to      
Mr Cs complaint about the Covid payment break, ELL offered Mr C £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of its error.    
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint about Loans 2, 3 and 4 should be 
upheld. The adjudicator said that it was irresponsible of ELL to have approved Loans 2, 3 
and 4 for Mr C based on the knowledge it had of his financial circumstances when he made 
his applications to the lender. The adjudicator didnt investigate Mr Cs complaint about the 
Covid payment break as this had been resolved.
ELL disagreed with the adjudicators view on Loans 2 and 3, but it accepted the adjudicators 
view regarding Loans 1 and 4. It didnt think the increase in Mr Cs monthly credit 
repayments from £730.78 at the time of his application for Loan 1 to £849.56 at the time of 
his application for Loan 2 was sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr C wasnt properly 
managing his credit. In addition, the credit checks it made at the time Loans 2 and 3 were 
taken out didnt show any missed payments or defaults to suggest Mr C wasnt able to meet 
his monthly obligations. ELLs affordability assessment also showed that Mr C had 
significant monthly disposable income of £382.71 and £522 at the time of Loans 2 and 3 
respectively. In terms of Mr Cs overall loan indebtedness, this reduced form £19,787 at the 
time of his application for Loan 1 to £17,571 when he applied for Loan 2 and subsequently to 
£3,643 when he applied for Loan 3. ELL said that all this suggested that it shouldnt have 
reasonably known that Mr C could not sustainably repay Loans 2 and 3.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C
and to ELL on 25 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
As ELL had agreed with the adjudicators recommendations regarding Loan 4, I said that I 
didnt propose to investigate this loan but would include the redress for it within the award 
section. I also said that I wouldnt investigate Mr Cs complaint about the Covid payment 
break as this had already been resolved.
Where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it was here), 
I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I considered 
was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I noted that when ELL lent Loans 1 to 3 to Mr C, the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in 
CONC, this meant that ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner 
over the lifetime of the agreements. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr C could 
sustainably repay his loans. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr C. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks - the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £1,500. The interest rate was 94.9%, (149.3% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of £137.49 If Mr C made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £3,299.76 in total.
ELL said in its final response letter that the loan was to be used for consolidating a payday 
loan, a revolving credit product and a catalogue loan. It said that Mr C was self-employed 
with an average monthly income of £2,200. He lived with his parents and didnt pay anything 
for his board. He had no dependents.  ELL estimated Mr Cs living costs by using 35% of   
Mr Cs net income to calculate these. It had done a credit search and reviewed Mr Cs 
personal and business bank statements and Mr Cs accountants certificate. ELL calculated 
Mr Cs financial commitments and living costs to total £1,500.79 and that Mr C had a 
disposable income of £717.99 after taking account of the credit to be consolidated and its 
monthly loan repayment.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of £137.49 for 24 months. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above allowed ELL to 
form a detailed view of Mr Cs finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it had made a fair lending decision.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks before Loan 1. I could see that Mr C had a hire purchase 
loan with monthly repayments of around £445 which appeared to have been made regularly. 
He also had two credit cards and a mail order account. One of the credit cards was over its 
credit limit, but the other two accounts were well within their respective limits. Overall, I didnt 
think ELL ought to have been unduly concerned with the results of its credit checks. 
But I was aware that a lenders credit checks might not reveal the full extent of a borrowers 
credit commitments. ELL would likely be aware of this too. The information it saw wasnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all lendersreported to the same credit reference agencies. 
Whilst Mr C had told ELL that he would be using the loan proceeds to consolidate some of 
his debts, I couldnt see from the information received from ELL that it had made this a 
condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that debt would be paid off. And Mr C would still 
have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay even if he did repay some of 
his debts with the loan proceeds. 
I could also see that even if Mr C had used the proceeds of Loan 1 for debt consolidation, 
his total indebtedness was still increasing. He said he was using a loan of £1,500 to repay 
debt, but he would need around £3,300 to repay Loan 1. 
Mr C told ELL he was self-employed. I could see that ELL had used a monthly income of 
£2,200 in its assessment. But I thought the fact that Mr C was self-employed meant that his 
income might have been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have 
been his available income and might not have been net of all tax, national insurance, and 
business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr C was 
unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. So, I thought this might have caused ELL to 
take additional care when reviewing Mr Cs loan applications.  
As it wasnt clear to me how ELL had calculated Mr Cs monthly net income of £2,200, I 
asked the adjudicator to ask ELL how this had been calculated. Id also noted that ELL had 
seen an accountants certificate and I asked the adjudicator to ask for this as it didnt appear 
that wed received it. 
ELL said that the monthly income of £2,200 was calculated using the average of two years 
of information on company turnover, net profit and personal earnings provided by Mr Cs 
accountant for the year 1 June 2015 to 31 May 2016 and projections for the year                  
1 June 2016 to 31 May 2017. The accountant said that the projected information was based 
on information from Mr C. 
ELL provided the accountants certificate to this Service. Id noted that the projections for the 
year 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2017 showed projected personal earnings of £20,000 and this 
figure was said to be subject to tax and national insurance. It also showed a projected net 
profit of £80,000 which was substantially higher than the actual profit for the previous tax 
year. I thought ELL might have wanted to see more information about this projected profit 
figure before relying on it as evidence of potential income going forward. I couldnt see that it 
had asked for more information about this.
On balance, I didnt think in Mr Cs circumstances that using an average of two years figures 
was likely to produce an accurate figure for Mr Cs income going forward. And I didnt think it 
was reasonable for ELL to use a figure of £2,200 net monthly income for Mr C without further 
clarification as to whether this was likely to be accurate. Id noted that the net monthly 
income based on a projected annual income of £20,000 was around £1,407. This was 
around £800 less than the monthly income used by ELL. I didnt think Mr C would have had 
any disposable income left if ELL had calculated a monthly income based on Mr Cs 
projected personal earnings of £20,000.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on using a percentage of Mr Cs average 
income to calculate his living costs without verifying these. This was unlikely to reflect the 
existing commitments of someone in Mr Cs circumstances. . But I could see that it had 
asked Mr C for his bank statements and it could have used these to check Mr Cs income 
and living costs.Id reviewed the bank statements ELL received from Mr C which it had sent to this Service. 
The statements were for two current accounts which both appeared to have been used for 
both personal and business transactions. From my review of these statements, the 
expenses appeared to be greater than the income received by Mr C. This might have been 
the reason for Mr C having to take out a payday loan for £850 and revolving credit of £400 at 
the end of  March 2017 to supplement his income. I thought this total credit amount of 
£1,250, which didnt appear on ELLs credit checks, ought to have caused it concerns as it 
appeared that Mr C was having difficulty managing his finances and was relying on 
expensive credit to supplement his income. 
So overall, I thought ELL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr C based on the 
information it already had. I didnt think it could be certain that Mr C would be able to meet 
his repayments sustainably over two years in view of his expenditure exceeding his income 
and his need to borrow from high cost credit providers to supplement his income. Mr C was, 
after all, committing to repay around £3,300 over 24 months. And I thought that ELL made 
an unfair lending decision here. 
Loan 2
Mr C initially told ELL he wanted a top up loan of £8,000. As ELL ultimately provided a loan 
of £4,000, I thought it might have had some concerns about Mr Cs finances. Loan 1 was 
repaid by the loan proceeds of Loan 2 and Mr C was left with £2,470.04. The total amount 
payable was nearly £8,800 more than the total amount to be paid on Loan 1. 
Loan 2 was to be repaid over a longer period and with higher monthly repayments than the 
previous loan. The monthly loan repayments had increased to £335.21 and were to be 
repaid over 36 months. The interest rate was 96.9%%, (153.9% APR). If Mr C made each 
payment when it was due, hed pay £12,067.56 in total.
Mr C had told ELL he wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation. I thought ELL ought 
again to have been concerned by Mr Cs need to borrow expensive credit for debt 
consolidation only around six months after Loan 1 which hed borrowed for the same 
purpose. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was facing 
problems managing their money. And whilst Mr C said he was consolidating some of his 
debt, he was substantially increasing his overall indebtedness by taking out Loan 2.
ELL again noted that Mr C was self-employed with an average monthly income of £2,200. 
He still lived with his parents and didnt pay anything for his board. He said he had no 
dependents.  ELL again estimated Mr Cs living costs by using 35% of Mr Cs net income to 
calculate these. It had done a credit search and reviewed Mr Cs personal and business 
bank statements. ELL calculated Mr Cs financial commitments and living costs to total 
around £1,620 and that he had a disposable income of £382.71 after taking account of the 
credit to be consolidated and its monthly loan repayment.
Mr C was again entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments of £335.21 for 36 months. So, I again thought it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mr Cs finances, and I thought that the checks ELL 
did were proportionate. But as Id said above, a lender also needed to react appropriately to 
the information shown by those checks.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks before Loan 2. I thought they suggested an increase in     
Mr Cs need for credit which ought to have concerned ELL. His total revolving credit had 
almost doubled since hed taken out Loan 1. Mr C had taken out two new credit cards since Loan 1 and his balance was around the credit limit of £400 on one of those cards. On 
another credit card, his balance was £200 over the credit limit of £3,900 and on another 
credit card his balance was around the credit limit of £726. Mr C also had a mail order 
account with a £3,590 balance. I thought ELL ought to have been concerned that Mr C had 
taken out three new credit cards within the seven months before his application for Loan 2 
and that one of his cards was overlimit and two were around their respective limits. And as 
Id set out above, ELLs credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of Mr Cs other 
credit commitments. 
It wasnt clear to me if ELL had seen new information to calculate Mr Cs monthly net income 
of £2,200. It didnt say that it had seen a current accountants certificate or projected income. 
So, it seemed that it relied on the information it had received before Loan 1. As Id stated 
above, I thought Mr Cs projected net monthly income was more likely to be around £1,407. 
So, I didnt think Mr C would have had any disposable income if ELL had calculated a 
monthly income based on Mr Cs projected earnings for the year ending 31 May 2017.
For the same reasons as Id stated above, I also didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to rely 
on using a percentage of Mr Cs income to calculate his living costs without verifying these. 
But I could see that ELL had again asked Mr C for his bank statements which could have 
been used to check Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
ELL had provided this Service with statements for one of Mr Cs current accounts. ELL 
would have been aware from its credit checks that Mr C had four current accounts so just 
seeing one account was unlikely to provide it with a clear picture of his finances. I could see 
that ELL had seen excerpts from his statements in a mobile phone format for the period     
31 August 2017 to 3 October 2017. The statements werent complete and didnt include the 
running balance. Whilst these showed payments to various creditors, they didnt show the 
payments to ELL for Loan 1. So, ELL would have been aware that Mr C had another current 
account and I thought it needed to ask for statements for that account to obtain a better 
overall picture of Mr Cs financial situation.
Id seen and reviewed the bank statements from around the time of Mr Cs application for    
Loan 2 for the account from which Mr C made his loan repayments to Loan 1. I could see 
that hed paid many of his creditors from that account. The account went into overdraft on 
several occasions and Mr C paid unplanned overdraft fees. More worryingly on two 
occasions when the account was nearly overdrawn, Mr C borrowed expensive loans from 
high cost credit providers. He borrowed £2,000 at the end of September 2017 and £2,966.17 
on 12 October 2017 from other high cost credit providers. Hed also borrowed £3,500 from 
another high cost lender at the end of July 2017 and borrowed additional amounts from a 
high cost revolving credit provider between August 2017 and October 2017. I could see that 
Mr Cs spending on credit commitments in September 2017 exceeded £1,900 and was likely 
to be higher than this going forward after taking out the £2,000 loan at the end of that month. 
I thought if ELL had seen these statements, it ought to have reasonably realised that Mr C 
was over committed financially and that he was having difficulty managing his finances.
So, if ELL had obtained more information about Mr Cs financial situation that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought ELL ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that     
Mr C would have been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, I didnt think it made a fair 
lending decision when agreeing to provide Loan 2.
Loan 3
Mr C had been indebted to ELL for almost 18 months when he applied for Loan 3. The loan 
amount of £10,000 was £6,000 higher than Mr Cs previous loan and his monthly repayments increased by around £100. The monthly repayments were to be made over the 
longer period of 48 months. ELL used the Loan 3 proceeds to repay the balance on Loan 2 
of £4,345.10, leaving Mr C with a balance of around £5,654.90 which hed told ELL would be 
used for debt consolidation. Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 3 was 41.9%,            
(51% APR). And if Mr C made each payment when it was due, hed pay £20,864.64 in total.
Mr C had told ELL he wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation. I thought ELL ought 
again to have been concerned by Mr Cs need to borrow expensive credit for debt 
consolidation just short of a year after taking out Loan 2 which hed borrowed for the same 
purpose. Again, I thought that might have been the sort of behaviour that would indicate that 
someone was facing problems managing their money. 
ELL again noted that Mr C was self-employed, and it had calculated his average monthly 
income to be £5,381. He said he paid monthly rent of £87.50. ELL used statistical data from 
the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to calculate Mr Cs living costs to be £649. It had 
done a credit search and reviewed Mr Cs bank statements. ELL calculated Mr Cs credit 
commitments to total £1,205.03 and it said that he would have a disposable income of 
£3,522 after taking account of the credit to be consolidated and its monthly loan repayment.
Mr C was again entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments of £434.68 for 48 months. So, I again thought it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mr Cs finances, and I thought that the checks ELL 
did were proportionate. But as Id said above, a lender also needed to react appropriately to 
the information shown by those checks.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. Mr C had 12 active accounts and a total balance of £8,611 
(excluding the balance on Loan 2). I could see that he had a mail order balance of £2,443 
and five credit card debts. Two of these credit cards had been taken out seven months 
before the loan application and had a total balance of around £1,200. I could also see that 
two of the cards were very near their respective credit limits. Overall, I didnt consider the 
amount of disposable income calculated by ELL to be consistent with the amount of debt   
Mr C had. 
I could see that ELL had calculated that Mr Cs average monthly income was £5,381 using a 
2017/2018 tax computation for Mr C prepared in June 2018. This showed earned income of 
around £8,164 and dividend income of £69,000 for that year. After tax, this would provide an 
annual income of around £64,573 for 2017/2018. But Mr C was taking out Loan 3 more than 
three months after the tax computation was prepared and I thought it would have been 
reasonable for ELL to have asked Mr C for projected income information going forward to 
assess his income more accurately. Mr C said the earned income was paid in sporadic 
amounts. He also said that the dividend income was not all his. He would only receive 25% 
of it on which 10% would be repaid the following tax year. 
Id also noted that ELL used ONS data to calculate Mr Cs living costs. I didnt think it was 
reasonable for ELL to rely on statistical information about Mr Cs living costs without verifying 
it. ONS data was based on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer. But I 
didnt think it was reasonable here for ELL to think that Mr Cs circumstances fell within this 
average portfolio. 
I could see that ELL had obtained two months bank statements from Mr C. It appeared to 
have made notes about some of the transactions on the statements. But I thought it could 
have used the statements to verify Mr Cs monthly income and living costs. Id reviewed 
these statements to see what ELL might have seen if it had made better checks. None of the statements supported a monthly income of £5,381. I could see that Mr C 
sporadically received a total of around £3,550 in transfers from his company described as 
salary in August/September 2018, and payments totalling around £2,645 described as salary 
and a payment of £10,000 from his company described as house purchase in the previous 
month. Mr C said that the payment of £10,000 was part of his dividend income. I could see 
that most of the dividend income was transferred to Mr Cs savings account and then most 
was transferred back to his current account in the same month and used for both living costs 
and discretionary expenditure. 
However, looking at the August/September 2018 statement which appeared likely to be 
more typical of a standard months income and expenditure than the statement for the 
previous month, from the information Id seen, on balance I didnt think better checks by ELL 
would have suggested that Mr C might have difficulty repaying his loan sustainably. There 
was nothing to suggest to me that Mr C was at this stage dependent on credit or that he was 
having problems managing his finances. There were no gambling transactions, no payday 
loans, no returned payments, and his account was always in credit and managed by 
transfers which were mostly from his companys account.  And I thought in Mr Cs 
circumstances, it might not have been unreasonable for ELL to think here that some of       
Mr Cs discretionary expenditure might cease when his finances had been stabilised by 
taking the consolidation loan. After the debt consolidation and based on what ELL could 
have seen from Mr Cs bank statements, I thought it was reasonable for the lender to 
conclude that the loan would be sustainable for Mr C. So, overall, I didnt think that ELL 
made an unfair lending decision when agreeing to provide Loan 3 to Mr C, and I intended to 
say that Mr Cs complaint about Loan 3 shouldnt be upheld.
So, subject to any further information or evidence I might receive from the parties, I intended 
to say that Mr Cs complaint about Loans 1 and 2 should be upheld, and that ELL should put 
things right on those loans along with paying the compensation and taking the steps it had 
already agreed to do for Loan 4 as follows : 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that Loans 1 and 2 were repaid from the proceeds of Loans 2 and 3 
respectively and that Loan 4 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr C back into the 
position he would have been had Loans 1, 2 and 4 not been agreed for him, ELL needs to 
ensure that Mr C only repays the total amount of money he received as a result of having 
been given Loans 1, 2 and 4. So, ELL needs to:
1. Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given   
Loans 1, 2 and 4. For the avoidance of doubt this added up amount should not 
include any interest, charges, document, or any other administration fees;
2. The payments Mr C made (to Loans 1, 2 and 4) should be deducted from this 
amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Mr C was given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr C;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;*
5. If the total amount of money paid by Mr C doesnt exceed the total amount of money 
he received as a result of having been given Loans 1, 2 and 4 (and for the avoidance 
of doubt any outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges and 
document or other administration fees), ELL should treat Mr C positively and 
sympathetically regarding repayment of the balance. This might mean agreeing a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; and6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of     
Loans 1, 2 and 4.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 4 it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps 1. to 6. 
above.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
ELL hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr C and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint in part and require ELL to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right 
as Ive set out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman