DRN-3435572
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Financial Solutions Wales Ltd (FSW) to transfer 
the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Mr D thinks the advice 
was unsuitable for him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In July 2017, Mr D received a transfer value quotation (TVQ) from the trustees of the BSPS. 
This summarised the projected benefits Mr D was entitled to under the BSPS at that point. It 
also gave the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds BSPS pension benefits. At 
that time the CETV was £436,898.10.
Mr D contacted FSW in August 2017 for advice about his BSPS benefits. FSW gathered 
information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. It recorded that he was 46, in good 
health, employed full time, married and had two dependent children. 
Mr and Mrs D owned their home, with an outstanding mortgage balance of approximately 
£102,000. In addition to this FSW recorded that Mr D had an overdraft facility through which 
he could borrow up to £53,000, with this potentially increasing by £2,000 per year to 
retirement. Mr D has confirmed this was linked to his mortgage and the amount that could be 
borrowed increased as the outstanding mortgage balance was gradually repaid and 
decreased. FSW noted that Mr D was paying interest of approximately £200 per month in 
respect of this overdraft  indicating it was at least partly being used. It also noted that he 
had an outstanding credit card balance of approximately £5,000 and that part of his 
household expenditure included payments towards hire purchase finance. Mr and Mrs Ds 
household income was though recorded as exceeding their expenditure by approximately 
£878 per month. And Mr D also held approximately £14,000 in other savings and 
investments.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr D was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. He and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this pension, which I understand were equivalent to 20% of his salary. That 
pension arrangement had only recently begun though and the BSPS benefits made up the 
majority of his retirement provisions at the time of the advice.
A pension transfer questionnaire was completed with Mr D on 15 August 2017. This 
recorded further details about his aims and situation. Mr D was asked to prioritise a list of 
features presented by FSW, based on their importance to him. And he was asked to select 
answers to a set of questions. His answers included that:
he could only stand to make small losses (5-10%) in respect of his BSPS pension 
fund before this would have an unacceptable impact on his standard of living in 
retirement, 
it was very likely, should he need access to a lump sum after age 55, that hed have 
to access his BSPS pension to obtain this as he had no other means to raise money, 
his dependents would receive significant sums upon his death from other sources, so 
a greater amount of death benefits was not an absolute priority for him,
he didnt think he would be able to afford to retire early, but he would like flexibility to 
do so in case his circumstances changed,
he wanted to take the maximum available tax-free cash (TFC) on retirement.
FSW also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which was assessed to be 
lowest medium. 
The trustees of the BSPS provided Mr D a revised valuation of his BSPS benefits in 
September 2017. The CETV of his benefits had risen to £451,144.77.
On 16 November 2017, FSW advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest in specific funds. The suitability report said Mr D had lost trust in his 
employer and under no circumstances wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to the BSPS2 or 
the defined contribution scheme. It said he wanted to retire at 58 and take control of his 
pension and be able to change his income in line with his needs in retirement. It said that 
Mr D also wanted to use the TFC to pay down his mortgage. And it said he wanted to take a 
sustainable income in retirement, which he accepted might be less than hed have been 
guaranteed under the DB scheme, in the hope of leaving a legacy for his children. FSW said 
it felt transferring to the pension it recommended would allow Mr D to achieve his aims and 
would provide the flexibility he needed. Subsequent to the transfer, FSW would also provide 
ongoing monitoring and servicing of the pension, at a cost.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with FSWs recommendation but in the time 
since, Mr D has appointed new financial advisers and has moved his pension to a different 
provider.
Mr D complained in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said this pension 
was his only retirement provision and he didnt think the information provided by FSW was 
appropriately balanced, particularly in relation to risks. Mr D said he had limited knowledge 
and understanding of investments at the time of the transfer and was swayed by the transfer 
value. He didnt think FSW had provided clear enough information about the benefits 
available via the BSPS2, which he believed wouldve allowed him to meet his objectives and 
been more appropriate. He also thought FSW had placed too much weight on the potential 
to provide a legacy the personal pension offered, which on reflection Mr D felt shouldnt have 
been a major consideration.
FSW didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said Mr D had hoped to retire at age 58 but wanted to 
use his pension, specifically tax-free cash, to clear his debts at age 55 to enable early 
retirement. So, it said he wanted to maximise TFC, while also taking control of his pension, 
given the uncertainty over the BSPS. FSW said Mr D needed flexibility as he wanted to take 
TFC and defer receiving his pension. And the TFC available through the BSPS2 or the PPF 
wouldnt have allowed him to meet his goals. It also said that it still believed, based on the 
current value of the pension, that Mr D was likely to be better off than had he entered the 
PPF and taken benefits at 58  which it felt was more likely than him entering the BSPS2 as 
the PPF offered greater TFC at early retirement. So, it considered the advice given was 
suitable.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. He again said hed been swayed by the size of the CETV and the main reason he transferred was FSW suggesting he could draw a larger 
pension. He said he hadnt needed to take TFC to pay off his mortgage and other debts and 
he hadnt made a definitive decision about taking early retirement  these were just things 
hed talked about after hed been told, by FSW, transferring might enable these to happen. 
He also said he didnt have a real distrust of his employer, as FSW has suggested, and 
wouldnt have been against moving to the BSPS2.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that 
FSW should compensate Mr D for any loss the DB transfer had led to, and it should pay him 
£250 for the distress caused. He thought Mr D was always unlikely to improve his pension 
benefits at age 58 by transferring  and FSW had based its advice on him retiring at that 
age. He didnt think Mr D had made a definitive decision about retiring early nor did the 
alternative death benefits justify the recommendation. The Investigator also thought Mr D 
had other options to clear his outstanding debts and achieve his retirement objectives. So, 
he didnt think transferring was in Mr Ds best interests and, had he been advised against 
this, thought Mr D would likely have opted to join the BSPS2.
FSW disagreed. It said it considered and appropriately challenged Mr Ds objectives when 
giving advice. FSW believed he was fully informed about the risks of the transfer and felt it 
was suitable and provided the flexibility Mr D was seeking in order to repay his substantial 
debts. It reiterated, based on the current value of the pension and how it has performed, it 
believed the new pension was capable of providing the same income as the PPF, which it 
still considered wouldve been the most likely alternative taken by Mr D given the better early 
retirement benefits it offered. And FSW also said if felt the Investigator had placed too much 
emphasis on the critical yield and was wrong to compare this to the discount rate. 
FSW also said it didnt think our service could reasonably recommend redress on the basis 
that Mr D wouldve entered the BSPS2 at the time  as this wasnt a confirmed option so 
couldnt reasonably have been recommended. And it also said it felt it may be appropriate to 
apportion some losses to the new financial adviser.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He still felt, having spoken to 
Mr D, that his plans were not set in stone at the time of the advice, including early retirement. 
And the Investigator also was satisfied that Mr D didnt transfer because he needed to clear 
debts  rather hed thought about doing this if FSW thought it was appropriate that he 
transfer. He acknowledged that risks had been set out by FSW in the suitability report, but 
said this was not a substitute for suitable advice. And he still didnt think transferring was in 
Mr Ds best interests.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of FSW's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FSW should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
Our Investigator thought Mr D was unlikely to improve his pension benefits at age 58 by 
transferring. FSW said it didnt think the information used by the Investigator to reach this, 
and his other conclusions, was reasonable. And it still believed the transfer was suitable.
FSW has said that the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead at the time of the advice. So, it 
says it is wrong for us to suggest this was an option that couldve been recommended or to 
base any redress on this outcome. But I think FSW is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 
not being established. The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount 
of time by the point Mr D asked FSW for advice and it carried out a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS). Mr Ds employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, and these had 
been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled 
the provision of the improved transfer value quotation Mr D received in September 2017. 
Joining the new scheme was also one of the options given within the time to choose pack 
issued to Mr D and his colleagues. And details of the new scheme had been provided. So, 
based on what had happened up to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the 
trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead. Of course, its possible it may not have 
done, but at the point of the advice Im satisfied it did appear likely to proceed.
Im also conscious that the TVAS FSW carried out in October 2017, as part of the advice 
process, was based on the benefits Mr D couldve received through the BSPS2 (and the 
PPF). The revaluation rates input as part of the TVAS were those of the BSPS2. And so, the 
information generated about how much pension Mr D would receive at different times under 
the DB scheme, and the annual rate of return required of a new pension that would allow 
Mr D to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was guaranteed under the DB scheme (the 
critical yields), were in reference to the BSPS2 and PPF benefits. Suggesting FSW thought 
this was a relevant comparison  and in my view that it also thought it was more likely than 
not that the BSPS2 would go ahead.
FSW also says the critical yield, and any analysis of this, is of limited relevance. It says this 
is based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. But FSW says Mr D didnt want 
to purchase an annuity. Given though Mr D was 46 and had a number of years until he could 
take his pension benefits  in which time his circumstances or plans could change  it was 
entirely possible that when he did retire he mayve wanted greater guarantees about his 
income. And in any event, the regulator required FSW to consider the rate of investment 
growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I do think 
an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
FSW has said the performance of the fund since the transfer indicates that the transfer was 
in Mr Ds interests and that he is likely to be better off. But Im looking at what happened at 
the point of the advice and whether the advice was suitable based on what was known and 
could be reasonably expected.
FSW has also questioned the Investigators use of discount rates as a comparison. Discount 
rates were first used during the pension review in loss assessment calculations - to discount 
the cost of replacing the DB pension at retirement back to the date of a review taking place 
and redress being paid. Our service continued to publish discount rates until September 
2017. After which the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how 
businesses could calculate future discount rates in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. FSW has suggested our Service is wrong to 
take this rate into account, as we arent using it for what it was intended for and FSW says it 
doesnt provide a meaningful comparison to critical yields. But I think it is a reasonable 
additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably 
achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses 
to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of likely returns. So, I consider they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr D was 46 at the time of the advice. FSW has said that he intended to retire at age 58. 
The TVAS said the BSPS2 was estimated to provide Mr D an annual pension starting at 
£18,284 or TFC of £88,164 and a reduced starting pension of £13,224 per year from age 58. 
The annual pensions would escalate in retirement.
The TVAS said Mr D would require a fund of £773,456.93 to provide the same full pension  
or to achieve a critical yield of 6.77%. To provide the equivalent benefits if Mr D took the 
same level of TFC a fund of £650,919.87 would be required, or a critical yield of 5.13%.
The TVAS also estimated the equivalent benefits that the PPF would provide Mr D at age 58 
- a starting annual pension of £18,095.90 or TFC of £97,671.51 and an annual pension 
starting at £14,672.93. The annual pensions would again escalate in retirement, but at a 
lower rate. The critical yields to match these benefits at 58 were 6.04% and 5.55% 
respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 5.13%, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
FSW has said its cashflow models from the time indicate that Mr D couldve maintained a 
sustainable income, above that of the DB scheme from age 58. And it also suggested hed 
have a higher level of assets to leave as a legacy for his children. Its cash flow planning 
report set out its analysis of the position if he transferred, took the maximum available TFC 
at 55 and then took a starting pension of £20,000 from 58, with this increasing at a rate of 
2.5% per year. The report suggests this was based on an investment growth rate of 4% after 
tax. And it indicated his pension assets would not be diminished until his mid-nineties.
The TVAS report though also included estimations of what benefits could potentially be 
drawn. And this said if a rate of 4.65% growth was achieved, before charges, and maximum 
TFC taken, Mr D would be able to draw a pension starting at £17,632.93 per year from age 
58, increasing in line with the retail price index (estimated to be 2.5% also) but this would run 
out by age 86. Which seems at odds somewhat with the cash flow planning report. It also 
indicated that if lower growth was achieved then the amount that could be taken would be 
significantly less.
The income to be provided by the DB scheme was guaranteed for Mr Ds lifetime, regardless 
of how long he lived. Ive also taken into account that in the suitability report, FSW said that it 
felt the recommended investment strategy was unlikely to match the estimated critical yields, 
noting that annualised returns over the previous three years was 8.12% and that these had 
been good years in the market. Calling into question how likely it was that the rates of return 
in the models provided could be achieved.
FSW also said in response to the Investigators opinion that it thought the critical yields 
required to match the benefits Mr D would be entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 
65 were achievable. This was though in contradiction to the suitability report which again 
said that FSW thought the recommended investment was unlikely to achieve these critical 
yields, based on its annualised return.
Nevertheless, I have thought about this. The TVAS report noted that the critical yield if Mr D 
took a full annual pension under the BSPS2 at age 65 was 5.33% and if he took the 
maximum TFC at 65 and a reduced pension, the critical yield would be 4.24%. If he took a 
full pension under the PPF at 65 the critical yield was 4.33%. And were he to take the 
maximum TFC and a reduced pension from the PPF at 65, the critical yield wouldve been 
3.99%.
The relevant discount rate from that time for 18 years to retirement was 4.4%, with the 
regulators standard projections the same as previously mentioned.
So, based on Mr Ds attitude to risk, time to retirement and the composition of the assets in 
the discount rate it does appear, on balance, more likely that the new arrangement mayve 
been able to match the benefits offered by the DB scheme, if Mr D were retiring at 65  in 
most of the potential scenarios. But again, there would be little point in introducing significant 
additional risk to achieve broadly the same benefits  which seems more likely than Mr D 
significantly exceeding the benefits hed have been guaranteed under the DB scheme. And 
FSW said that Mr D intended to retire well before age 65 and based its advice on him doing 
so.
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can reasonably say that a transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests on a financial viability basis as it seems likely he would always have 
received benefits of a lower overall value as a result of the transfer. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. And indeed, the suitability report noted that FSW was recommending the 
transfer despite it thinking it unlikely the critical yields were achievable, because of the other 
objectives that would be achieved  flexibility, control and alternative death benefits. So, Ive 
considered whether these meant a transfer was suitable.
Flexibility
FSW has said that Mr D needed flexibility in how he could take his benefits. It said he 
wanted to retire at age 58. It also says he wanted to take the maximum available TFC at age 
55 to clear his mortgage and debts. And it says he wanted to achieve an income of £20,000 
per year in retirement. 
Mr D has said that hed made no decision about retiring early and may well look to continue 
working beyond the age FSW has suggested. He also says he didnt have a need to clear 
his debts at age 55. He acknowledged that in his discussions with FSW hed talked about 
potentially doing this, if a transfer was suitable. But he says he didnt need to transfer for this 
reason.
The answers given by Mr D to some of the questions he was asked at the time of the advice 
included him saying he didnt expect to be able to retire early and that being able to do so 
was relatively low on a list of priorities. I dont doubt hed have been interested in retiring 
early if possible  I think most consumers would be when asked. But I dont think, based on 
what Ive seen, hed made a definitive decision about this and I think it was more a nice to 
have. Particularly given he was 46 at the time of the advice. And in any event the BSPS2 
and the PPF both allowed Mr D to take benefits at age 58 if he chose to do so.
On the subject of TFC and needing this to repay debts at age 55, again Im not sure that this 
was a need. Mr D did have an outstanding mortgage and some other debts, notably a credit 
card and hire purchase finance. The mortgage was due to run into his early sixties. But the 
other debts, based on their size, were likely to be repaid much sooner than this. I understand 
the mortgage was on a repayment basis and will also continue to reduce. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that he and Mrs D were behind with repayments on any of their debts. 
And the income and expenditure information recorded by FSW indicated they had 
disposable income each month. So, I dont think Mr D had a need to take TFC to clear these 
amounts at age 55 and again think this was more a nice to have that he wouldve 
considered, but not a reason to transfer.
FSW has said that Mr D indicated that he expected his overdraft, linked to his mortgage, to 
increase by about £2,000 per year until retirement. And that this already allowed borrowing 
of £53,000. Based on my understanding of this facility it does appear that Mr D wouldve had 
access to additional borrowing through this. And that this facility would need to be repaid at 
the same time as the principle mortgage balance  and wasnt held on a repayment basis so 
wasnt being cleared by the mortgage repayments. Mr D has also acknowledged that he 
suggested he may continue to utilise this and may increase his borrowing. But hes also said 
this was only if hed needed to and he intends to start reducing this balance once his 
children leave full time education, with the use of his disposable income  which based on 
the income and expenditure figures, appears plausible. In any event though the amount 
owed through this facility would appear to be significantly less than Mr D would be entitled to 
as TFC through either the BSPS2 or the PPF whether he retired at age 58, 65 or somewhere 
in between. So, I dont think he needed to transfer in order to clear this balance, as hed 
have had means to do so while remaining in the DB scheme.
Again, FSW has said that Mr D expected to need an income of £20,000 per year in retirement. As Ive said, I dont think it was decided that he was going to retire at age 58. But 
if he did, and he took the maximum TFC when retiring, under the BSPS2 hed have been 
entitled to a starting annual pension of £13,224 and under the PPF a starting pension of 
£14,672.93. So, in both cases, less than his apparent target income. But the income from 
the PPF or the BSPS2 wouldve been guaranteed for life. And wouldve continued to 
escalate while in payment. Providing Mr D with certainty. And these were unlikely to have 
been Mr Ds only source of income at retirement.
The fact find shows that Mr D had £14,000 in other savings and investments. And again, he 
appears to have had disposable income which wouldve allowed him to potentially increase 
these - giving him a further pot to potentially use flexibly.
Mr D was also a member of his employers new defined contribution scheme. And it appears 
hed have likely continued to contribute to this while he remained with the same employer  
which he appears to have intended to do until he retired. Mr D and his employer were 
making combined contributions of 20% of his salary. So, assuming that level of contributions 
continued until age 58, based on his recorded salary, and before even accounting for 
increases in salary, investment growth or Mr D increasing his contributions, this fund would 
likely have been worth in excess of £94,000. This couldve been used flexibly to supplement 
income from the DB scheme, until state retirement age. And when Mr D reached state 
retirement age, his state pension, in conjunction with the guaranteed pension provided by 
the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldve continued to meet his income needs. And that is before 
even taking into account any of Mrs Ds pension arrangements. So, I dont think that Mr D 
needed to transfer, to meet his income goals.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think transferring to achieve flexibility was something 
that Mr D needed at the time of the advice. Given the time until he was intending to retire, I 
dont think Mr Ds plans were known and certainly were not finalised. Nor do I think 
transferring was the only option for meeting the objectives hed indicated he was considering 
at the time.  And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D to give up his 
guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr D later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I 
understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to 
retirement.   
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension may have been an attractive feature to Mr D. But Im also 
conscious that Mr D said, when answering questions as part of the fact find process, that his 
dependents would already receive significant sums upon his death and that maximising 
death benefits was not a high priority to him. In any event though, whilst I appreciate death 
benefits can be important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think FSW sufficiently explored to what extent Mr D was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married with children. And so, the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to Mrs D and his children if Mr D predeceased them. I 
dont think the value of this benefit was given sufficient prominence. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum  something which Mr D has admitted drew his attention. But the sum remaining on death 
following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment performance, wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. Mr D was recorded as being in good 
health. And so, there was nothing to suggest he wouldnt have reached his average life 
expectancy, and could also have exceeded this, meaning hed have continued to draw funds 
from the pension for longer. So, the legacy wouldnt have been the same as the CETV. In 
any event, FSW should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Notwithstanding that Mr D had indicated sums would already be available to his dependents 
in the event of his death  for example the proceeds of his defined contribution pension  if 
he hadnt thought these provisions were enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further 
legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, there was the option of life insurance. 
FSW had provided evidence of a whole of life insurance quote having been obtained with a 
sum assured equivalent to the CETV and the cheapest premium being approximately £382 
per month. And Mr D seems to have discounted this on the basis of cost. But I dont think 
that this was a balanced way of presenting this option.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ds pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. I think the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
dependents, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant that 
undertaking the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ds desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. While the 
information available suggests Mr D had previously bought some shares (in two mainstream 
financial institutions)  and these were the basis of the additional savings and investments 
he held  he doesnt appear to have been a particularly experienced investor. And he 
doesnt appear to have had any prior experience of managing his pension arrangements. I 
cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And indeed, the advice includes the recommendation that FSW continue 
to provide advice and servicing too him  so, he wasnt in fact going to be responsible for 
managing the pension. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  it was 
simply a consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. Although Mr D has 
told our service that he hadnt significantly lost trust in his employer, I dont doubt he, like 
many of his colleagues, had some concerns about his pension. His employer had been 
consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time and itd been made clear he would 
need to make a choice. I also dont doubt Mr D had likely heard negative things about what 
could happen, including entry into the PPF and this was why he said he preferred to have 
control over his pension fund.  Its also quite possible that Mr D was also leaning towards the 
decision to transfer because of his concerns. But it was FSWs obligation to give him an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. And while FSW has 
suggested that Mr D wanted a clean break because of the ongoing issues, he still worked for 
the same employer. And had no plans for this to change. 
By the time advice was given here details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated any concerns Mr D mightve had about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that FSW shouldve 
reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr D through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement. And, when combined with his other means, 
appears likely to have allowed him to meet his income needs. He was also unlikely to 
improve his pension benefits by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment 
risk. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to FSW recommending Mr D transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
FSW recommended that Mr D invest in specific funds based on his recorded attitude to risk. 
Mr D has said that these didnt provide the level of growth FSW had suggested hed receive. 
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr D though, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr D should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But FSW 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think he needed flexibility to achieve his 
objectives. Nor do I think decisions about his retirement had been finalised. And I also dont 
think the alternative death benefits he could potentially receive made transferring in his best 
interests. So, I dont think he shouldve been advised to transfer.   
FSW says, because Mr D was looking to retire at age 58, it thinks he would have most likely 
opted to join the PPF, because it wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. But Mr D had over 11 years before he reached age 58 and, in my view, his 
plans were not definitive. And I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because 
while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction in 
pension income he would receive from the PPF would end up being offset by the more 
favourable early retirement benefits. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think if FSW had correctly advised him against transferring Mr D wouldve 
opted into the BSPS2. And for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that the 
BSPS2 is a reasonable alternative as at the time of the advice the parties were confident it 
would be going ahead.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead with a transfer anyway, 
against FSW's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against FSWs advice. I say this 
because Mr D was a relatively inexperienced investor with a lowest medium attitude to risk 
and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision  as confirmed by the 
fact find. So, if FSW had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice. I accept that FSW disclosed risks to Mr D and provided him with a significant amount 
of information. But ultimately it advised Mr D to transfer his benefits, and I think Mr D relied 
on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about the BSPS consultation, or the potential appeal 
of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And If FSW had 
explained that Mr D could meet his income needs without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think FSW should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
FSW has suggested that Mr D ought to be compelled to purchase an annuity  and if he 
declined this would demonstrate his desire for flexibility. It is evident that Mr D will benefit 
from flexibility by virtue of the position he is in now, but that has only arisen because of the 
unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate 
redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see 
no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
FSW has also suggested that it shouldnt be considered responsible for all that has 
happened since the transfer, as Mr D has since changed financial advisers and chosen to 
move his pension to another provider. Ive thought about this carefully. But I still think it is 
reasonable to hold FSW responsible for Mr Ds losses. It was FSWs unsuitable advice 
which ultimately enabled the transfer and without it, none of what has happened since 
couldve taken place.
Our Investigator recommended that FSW also pay Mr D £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr D has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for FSWs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, FSW should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He didnt 
make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for 
the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
FSW must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
FSW may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date FSW receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FSW to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect FSW to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, FSW should pay Mr D £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Financial Solutions 
Wales Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Financial 
Solutions Wales Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Financial Solutions Wales Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Financial Solutions 
Wales Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman