DRN-2495285
The complaint
Mr D complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt completed work on his house to a 
satisfactory standard as part of his claim on his buildings insurance policy. He also thinks 
UKI has used offset funds for the claim which shouldve been paid to him. 
Any reference to UKI includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr D has a buildings insurance policy which covers his home and contents. In March 2018, 
he claimed on the policy after an escape of water. Loss adjusters put together a report of the 
works needed. And they started after the house was confirmed dry in August 2018. Whilst 
work was ongoing, Mr D lived with relatives and UKI paid him a £15 allowance per day.
Around March 2019, Mr D said he wasnt happy with the standard of the repairs that had 
been carried out and wanted them to be rectified before he returned home. But after he gave 
UKI a list of the outstanding repairs, it said the work was minor and shouldnt stop him from 
moving back home. Nevertheless, its told me it continued paying the daily living allowance 
until around June 2019. Mr Ds told us he hadnt moved back into the property by July 2020.
A site meeting was arranged to discuss the outstanding matters and UKI agreed to carry out 
some of the works. It also said there was around £5,000 available for Mr D to use towards 
private improvement works he wanted carried out as itd saved money elsewhere on the 
repairs. It called this the offset amount.
From March 2019 until around November 2020 Mr D, UKI and our service have been in 
discussion about the outstanding work Mr D says needs to be carried out. And throughout 
this time, there have been several visits to the property by the loss adjuster, Mr D and the 
contractors to carry out remedial works or discuss whats outstanding. This includes the 
contractual visit in November 2019 which UKI says usually takes place six months after the 
work is complete for the policyholder to highlight any defects in the work carried out.
After Mr D complained to our service, UKI offered him £250 as compensation. Our 
investigator thought this was fair and didnt think it needed to do anything further. She also 
thought the upcoming visit in November 2019 would be a good opportunity for Mr D to raise 
any outstanding issues. She suggested Mr D get a second opinion on the outstanding work.
 In the meantime, after the contractual visit in November 2019, UKI carried out some of the 
repairs Mr D had highlighted but it declined to cover others. Some of the items raised were 
things that had been discussed previously. Following this, UKI let Mr D know it was satisfied 
all works related to the escape of water were complete. It paid Mr D the offset funds to 
complete any further work he wanted. And the contractors agreed to reimburse him for some 
work that had been carried out that he wasnt satisfied with.
Mr D didnt accept the amount paid as he thought UKI had allocated some of the offset funds 
to repair work that shouldve been covered anyway. And he wanted UKI to arrange the 
repairs he says were still outstanding itself. As Mr D also didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. I thought the complaint 
about the outstanding issues Mr D had highlighted to us should be upheld in part in 
summary because:
Whilst I understood Mr Ds concerns, I hadnt seen enough to make me doubt the drying 
out company  as the experts  carried out the drying out process incorrectly. 
I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr D to arrange an independent assessor to look at 
the works as otherwise much of what he thought was outstanding is his opinion. But he 
hadnt done so  and I didnt think UKI shouldve been expected to.
UKI had issued a safety certificate and confirmed in writing the wiring in Mr Ds dining 
room was made safe. So I didnt think it needed to do anything more to reassure him.
UKIs explanation that the cracks that kept appearing were historical and due to 
movement seemed plausible to me. And I wasnt persuaded it was responsible for the 
ongoing issues  or that it was likely the cracks were caused by blown or insufficiently 
dried out plaster.
I didnt think it was likely a fitted window without any faults would fall out regardless of 
how heavy handed someone opening it was. And I could see UKI had already agreed to 
sand and repaint the kitchen door which wasnt part of the initial schedule of works. So I 
didnt think it would be fair to direct it to replace these.  
I thought it was Mr Ds choice not to return to his property rather than it being unfit to live 
in. So I thought UKI had already paid the living allowance for longer than it needed. 
Mr D thought UKI had used some of the offset funds towards work that shouldve been 
covered anyway. But I didnt agree and thought this would mean hed benefit twice. 
UKI had offered Mr D £250 to compensate him for further repairs that were needed. And I 
thought that was a fair amount in this case.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. UKI 
said it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr D said he didnt agree with my findings but 
didnt have any further comments to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. UKI has offered Mr D £250 to compensate him for further 
repairs needed. And I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and direct UK Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr D the £250 its already offered him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman