DRN-3064155
The complaint
Mrs W has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund her for transactions that took place 
from March to June 2018 which she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs W was in a relatively new personal relationship in 2018. This individual was physically 
violent towards her. After an attack, she was admitted to hospital for treatment. Her stay was 
prolonged.
In August Mrs W realised there were transactions from her current account she hadnt made. 
She asked Lloyds to refund those that had taken place from 8 March until 14 May 2018. 
Lloyds declined her claim. This was partly as theyd provided refunds following an earlier 
claim in January 2018. They felt theyd given Mrs W clear advice about how to look after her 
card and PIN.
A few months later Mrs Ws new partner helped her submit a revised claim to Lloyds about 
fraud. This was for the period from 8 March to 7 June 2018 and amounted to £2,970.40 
worth of transactions on Mrs Ws debit card. Lloyds again rejected this claim. Mrs W brought 
her complaint to the ombudsman service.
She told our investigator shed been in hospital for about three months and was for some of 
that time in an induced coma. Shed not given permission to her ex-partner to use her card 
which hed stolen from her whilst she was in hospital. After attempting to get as much 
verification of what had happened as possible, our investigator believed there was no 
evidence to show Mrs W had authorised those transactions. He asked Lloyds to refund 
transactions for the period from March to June 2018.
Lloyds felt that some of the evidence seemed inconsistent. They could see the debit card  
supposedly used for the disputed transactions  continued to be used after 7 June so 
couldnt understand how this had been returned to Mrs Ws possession. Shed only got a 
replacement card after June 2018.
Our investigator struggled to get clarity around the period Mrs W had been in hospital. Her 
medical records showed a period from 9 March until she was discharged on 17 April 2018. 
Despite numerous letters and reminders, further confirmation remained unavailable.
It was felt best to ask an ombudsman to make a decision on Mrs Ws complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 20 August 2021. I explained why I didnt think there 
was enough evidence to show Mrs W hadnt authorised the disputed transactions. Overall I 
wasnt going to ask Lloyds to refund Mrs W.
Lloyds accepted this conclusion. I got no response from Mrs W.
I now have all the information I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. The 
wording below explaining why remains by and large the same.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Lloyds and 
Mrs W. This includes what transactions Mrs W has disputed. Ive also noted the detailed 
medical record that Mrs W has shared with us. As well Ive seen our investigators view of 
16 December 2019 but feel no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of 
course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im making.
The first thing to note is that Mrs Ws medical records show she was in hospital from 
9 March 2018 after going to A&E until she was discharged on 17 April. Its clear that Mrs W 
was seriously unwell and had respiratory failure. She was then re-admitted to hospital for a 
day after further breathing difficulties. However this doesnt match the period Mrs W told us 
she was in hospital for.
The records also state Mrs Ws concern that her husband  whom she was divorcing  had 
broken into her property whilst she was in hospital. This individual is different to the person 
who, Mrs W told us, stole her card and used it without her authority.
Theres no dispute that Mrs W wasnt in a position to personally use her own debit card from 
9 March to 17 April. Her statements are clear that her debit card was used from 12 to 27 
March for 12 debit card purchases and six cash machine withdrawals. Most of these 
transactions were for small individual amounts except for one cash machine withdrawal of 
£300. This was made immediately on the day Mrs W received her Disability Living Allowance 
payment into her account. That transaction does look slightly out of the ordinary whilst the 
others  particularly the small cash withdrawals  could very easily have been withdrawals 
which Mrs W had asked someone to make on her behalf or allowed someone to make.
Its also clear that as soon as Mrs W is discharged from hospital she uses her debit card 
herself. So within a couple of days Mrs W makes two large cash withdrawals (for £100 and 
£150). Im surprised that if her ex-partner had stolen her card, hed have bothered returning 
it to her.  
Mrs W has told us previously that her ex-husband or her ex-partner had often used her 
account to have their benefits paid into. I can see, for example, two almost identical benefit payments of over £400 were credited to Mrs Ws account on 24 April 2018. But Mrs W was 
in receipt of Disability Living Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance so I dont 
think these payments were hers.
Mrs W didnt submit a fraud claim until the August of that year and then for a considerably 
shorter time period. Im only too aware that Mrs Ws personal circumstances did not allow a 
detailed review of the state of her finances. But she had recently been a victim of fraud by 
her ex-husband so Id have expected her to have noted money missing from her account 
much earlier  even if shed only checked this when withdrawing cash at a cash machine. 
I dont doubt what Mrs W has told us about being subject to domestic violence. Its clear that 
along with her serious health issues shes had a very difficult time over the last few years. 
Im also aware that a more recent relationship has since broken down. I empathise with her 
and the impact these events have had on her life.
However after reviewing the transactions shes disputed, I think its most likely Mrs W had 
allowed someone else to use her card. I wont be asking Lloyds Bank to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against 
Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman