DRN-3696526
The complaint
Miss N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly granted her credit that she 
couldnt afford to pay.
What happened
HSBC approved a credit card application for Miss N in December 2019. It provided an initial 
credit limit of £1500. This was increased to £5000 in September 2020.
Miss N says HSBC was wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
HSBC disagrees. It says when it approved the credit card application, it carried out checks 
on Miss Ns financial circumstances and based on these, it was happy to approve the 
application. And when HSBC increased the credit limit, it said it reviewed the information it 
had obtained about Miss N and had found the credit affordable.
Our investigator thought HSBC had carried out proportionate checks and that the lending 
decision was fair.
Miss N didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind in considering whats fair and reasonable 
here.
Account opening
HSBC hasnt said exactly what checks it carried out before approving the account, but it has 
said that it took into account information provided by Miss N, and information obtained from 
the credit reference agencies. HSBC has said that Miss N stated that she had income of 
£28,000 at the time of the application.
I think it would be been proportionate for HSBC to have verified Miss Ns income before 
approving the application. I havent seen anything from HSBC to suggest that it did so. Ive 
gone on to consider whether the information obtained by HSBC showed that Miss N could 
sustainably afford the credit. The initial credit limit of £1500 wouldve required sustainable 
repayments of £75 per month if the full credit limit had been utilised. 
Ive looked at Miss Ns bank statements for the 3 months leading up to the account opening. 
This shows that Miss Ns average monthly income was £2000. Theres nothing in the bank 
statements to suggest that the credit wasnt affordable for Miss N, or that she wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay the credit.
As Ive said, I think it wouldve been proportionate for HSBC to have verified Miss Ns 
income and financial circumstances. If HSBC had looked at the bank statements, I think it 
wouldve reached the same conclusion that the credit was affordable for Miss N. Because of 
this, I dont think HSBC acted irresponsibly when it approved the application and opened the 
account.
Credit limit increase
Because the credit limit increase was significant, I think it wouldve been proportionate if, in 
addition to the checks it carried out, HSBC had carried out further checks to find out more 
about Miss Ns income and expenditure, including other credit commitments.
With this in mind, Ive looked at Miss Ns credit limit increase application. She stated that her 
income was £32,000. Ive also looked at her bank statements. Miss Ns monthly income 
varied. In July 2020 it was around £2600 and in August 2020 it was around £1800. There are 
transfers in from another account which increased Miss Ns income at this time.
The bank statements show that Miss N was making regular payments for utility bills and to 
other card providers. But theres nothing in the bank statements to suggest that the 
increased credit limit wasnt affordable, or that Miss N wasnt able to sustainably repay the 
credit. Had HSBC looked at this information, I think it wouldve reached the conclusion that 
the credit limit increase was affordable for Miss N. Therefore, I dont think HSBC acted 
irresponsibly when it approved Miss Ns application to increase the credit limit.
For completeness, Ive also looked at Miss Ns credit report. This shows that she had other 
credit accounts, and that these were being managed well with no adverse information, no 
defaults and no CCJs. Theres nothing in the credit report to suggest that Miss N wouldnt 
have been able to sustainably repay the credit. Had HSBC looked at this information, I think 
it wouldve concluded that the increased credit limit was affordable.
Taking everything into account, I dont think HSBC lent to Miss N irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman