DRN-2540692
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont lend to a potential 
purchaser of his property because the bank has now a policy on not lending on timber 
framed homes with retrospectively added insulation material. Mr H would like Halifax to 
explain its policy, give him advice on how to make his house compliant, give him information 
on when its policy changed and compensate him for the poor service he received when his 
complaint was being handled
What happened
Mr H has a property, which is a timber framed structure. He has an interest only mortgage 
with Halifax. Mr H and his late wife took out a mortgage with Halifax on the property in 2009 
for five years. The valuation at the time valued the property at £325,000 and a section of the 
valuation report read as follows Some lenders do not lend on properties of this type of 
construction, which may affect future saleability. Mr H and his late wife then carried out 
works to the house including a modern timber extension that almost doubled the size of the 
house. The mortgage term was extended for a further five years in 2014. Mrs H sadly died in 
2016. 
As the mortgage term approached maturity, in August 2018 Mr H, then aged 74, told Halifax 
that he had funds to clear the mortgage if he sold some properties. Mr H then hoped that his 
son and family would buy the house off him. But Mr Hs son had difficulty selling his own 
property so in April 2019, Mr H put his property on the market with a price of £950,000. 
Mr H asked Halifax for a six months extension to the mortgage to allow the property to sell 
which was granted. In July 2019 Mr H told Halifax that he had a buyer at £925,000. But later 
in the month told Halifax that his prospective buyers were having difficulties getting a 
mortgage because the property was a timber framed house built soon after the second 
World War.
 
Mr H then had a conversation with a Halifax adviser in July 2019 about the problem he was 
having selling the property because of the issue that the house was timber framed with 
retrospectively added insulation material. The Halifax adviser at that stage said that Mr H 
might want to direct purchasers to an independent financial adviser to source a lender who 
could lend on such homes and/or seek advice on whether the insulation process could be 
reversed, and the insulation removed.
 
Mr W then tried to make contact with Halifaxs director of secured lending and wrote to him 
on 9 November 2019 to ask why a mortgage on his property had been declined by Halifax. 
Mr W got no reply and wrote again on 25 November. On 3 December Mr H visited Halifaxs 
complaints page on their website. Mr H got a response to his complaint on 2 January 2019 
and then again on 23 January which suggested that he obtain independent advice from a 
surveyor who has expertise in this field. 
Mr H suggested that Halifax should freeze his mortgage interest whilst he undertakes work 
to make the house acceptable as a mortgage risk. Mr H says that he wants Halifax to identify 
exactly what it is about houses of timber construction that makes them an unacceptable 
security for the lender. Mr H says that if he knew that he could decide what if anything he 
needs to do with the property. Mr H also complains about the nature of the correspondence 
he has had with Halifax in relation to his complaint.
Our investigators view
Our investigator issued two views. He partially upheld the complaint and recommended that 
Halifax should tell Mr H when its policy changed. He also felt that Mr H should get a survey 
done and that Halifax should provide details of any remedial work that should be done on 
receipt of that survey. Our investigator felt that the amount offered by Halifax in respect of 
how it dealt with Mr Hs complaint was fair. Mr H disagreed and asked for a review.
My provisional findings
I issued a Provisional Decision in this complaint and invited Mr H and Halifax to comment on 
it. I set out excerpts from my Provisional Decision below:
The background to this is that Mr H has an interest only mortgage on a timber framed 
house. The mortgage term has matured, and Mr H wants to sell the property to pay off the 
balance but has had difficulties doing so. There is note on Halifaxs file that he intended to 
settle this mortgage by means of selling off other properties. Ive no information as to why 
that changed or whether these properties are still available to sell and pay off the mortgage. 
But I recognise that if Mr H does that, he will still be left with difficulties selling his present 
home.
Mr H is trying to sell his property and apparently one of his buyers couldnt get a Halifax 
mortgage because of the timber framed construction. I havent seen evidence such as a 
valuation saying that was the case but according to Mr H, who is a chartered surveyor, thats 
what he was told. Halifax has produced evidence that one of its listed unacceptable 
construction types is timber or metal framed buildings where the cavity, between frame and 
cladding, has been retrospectively filled with an insulation material.  Halifax says that this 
policy has been in place at least since 14 June 2018. It also produced evidence that such a 
policy wasnt in place in January 2016.
 
If Mr Hs potential purchaser was turned down for a mortgage in 2019 by Halifax on those 
grounds, then this would be explicable because of this condition. Mr H wants to know 
whether the policy was introduced before or after he got his mortgage and further advances 
and I believe this information and the further information below fairly answers that question. 
Mr H also wants the reason why Halifax has changed its policy as regards timber framed 
housing. Halifax has told us that the most recent change followed the publication of a report 
Building a Safer Future. Independent Review of Building Regulations and Fire Safety: Final 
Report published in May 2018 and that it was likely that the bank reviewed the 
recommendations made in the report and then made the changes to its policy. Again, I 
believe that this fairly answers Mr Hs query.
I recognise that Mr H has a difficulty in selling his property. Mr H wants Halifax to advise him 
on what to do to make the house acceptable for mortgage purposes.  But Halifax is a lender. 
It sets criteria on which properties it will lend on and asks surveyors to advise on whether 
properties which borrowers propose are a suitable security match in line with Halifaxs 
criteria.  Mr H wants Halifax to do something different and advise on turning a property that 
Halifax and other lenders might not approve as good security for lending on, into a property 
that they will lend on.
 
But I dont believe that Halifaxs role is to advise on how thats achieved. Its a lender after all 
and not a builder, architect, engineer or surveyor. Its not in the business of advising on 
house renovations. Mr H is a chartered surveyor and should be able to source advice to assist him on what he needs to do to make the house acceptable security for a mortgage 
lender, but I dont believe that such a task should fall to Halifax. There is the added problem 
that if it were to advise, Halifax would be advising on renovations to a house that it may not 
be asked to provide finance on, and I dont see how that helps Mr H if his purchaser looks for 
finance from another lender. On this I differ from our investigator who suggested that Mr H 
get a survey done and that Halifax comment on what remedial works need to be done.
   
It would seem that Mr H may require some time to take advice and to do any renovations 
necessary and I would expect Halifax to be sympathetic to any reasonable mortgage term 
extension that Mr H may require for that purpose. I note that Mr H asked Halifax to freeze his 
mortgage interest whilst that was being done. But I dont consider I can fairly require Halifax 
to do that whilst the loan remains unpaid. The notes on file suggest that Mr H may have 
access to other monies including other properties and that hes still working so he doesnt 
appear to be in any financial difficulties.
 
The other issue that Mr H mentions is Halifaxs failure to respond to his correspondence 
starting on 9 November 2019 when he asked why in specific technical terms a mortgage on 
his property had been declined. As I understand it, Halifax hadnt declined a mortgage on the 
property, but Mr H says that the lender had indicated to a broker of a potential purchaser that 
it wouldnt lend on this type of property. I note that previously on 25 July 2019 Mr H had 
contacted Halifax to say that his buyer was unable to get a mortgage as the property had 
been retrospectively insulated, so he was aware of the reason why getting a mortgage on his 
property might be difficult when he wrote to Halifax.
 
There was some delay in answering that correspondence and Mr H was put to some trouble 
to get an answer and Halifax didnt respond substantially until the beginning of January. But 
Mr H already knew the reason that Halifax wasnt prepared to lend on this type of property. 
As Halifax hadnt done a recent survey on the property because it hadnt processed any 
recent mortgage application, I dont see that Halifax could have provided much more 
information than it provided in July. I note that Halifax offered £50 for its failure in promptly 
responding to Mr Hs correspondence and to pay him £33 for his postage costs which I 
consider appropriate. But for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
 
As my view differs from our investigator about whether Halifax should be required to advise 
on what remedial works need to be done on receipt of a survey, I am issuing a provisional 
decision on this complaint.
I then invited Mr H and Halifax to comment on my provisional decision and to make any 
further submissions which I said I would consider before I issued my Final Decision. Halifax 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but had no further comments to make. Mr 
H made a number of further submissions which Ive considered and are referred to below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H made a number of further submissions. Mr H 
tells me that he sold his house at the end of May 2020 for £150,000 less than he was 
advised it was worth. Mr H says that I failed to understand the complaints which he says 
were about the behaviour of Halifax and the answers to two questions. In respect of the first 
issue, Mr H set out the narrative of his dealings with Halifax in November and December 2019 when he first raised the issue. Secondly Mr H also wants the answer to the question as 
to when exactly Halifax decided not to lend on these types of property and what is it that 
Halifax finds unacceptable about them.
I did consider how Halifax dealt with Mr Hs concerns in the period of November and 
December 2019. I set this out in a number of paragraphs in my Provisional Decision and I 
gave my reasons why I thought that Halifaxs offer of compensation for its failure to respond 
to Mr Hs contact was appropriate. I also relayed the information I received from Halifax as to 
when its policy on lending on this type of property changed which I was informed was after 
January 2016. The relevance of that question was whether the decision was taken before Mr 
H took his further advance. Mr H took out his loan and further advance before 2016. So, I 
believe that provides the information he requires. 
Mr H also wants to know what Halifax finds unacceptable about this type of building. Halifax 
has said that that it wont lend on timber or metal framed buildings where the cavity, 
between frame and cladding, has been retrospectively filled with an insulation material. 
Halifax, as a lender is entitled to decide what type of buildings are acceptable security for its 
lending and its not our role to enquire into the process by which it came to that decision. 
When Mr H came to us with his complaint, he had a difficulty selling his property. I noted that 
Mr H was a chartered surveyor and my view was that he should have been able to source 
advice to assist him on what he needed to do to make the house acceptable security for a 
mortgage lender and that Halifax should be sympathetic to any time requirements that Mr H 
had to allow him to do that and make any necessary renovations. Mr H now asks if these 
types of buildings were refurbished to comply with current Building Regulations would they 
ever be acceptable to Halifax.?  But Mr H has now sold the property and wont be 
refurbishing the house so I dont see how that is a relevant enquiry I should require Halifax to 
answer. 
Having reviewed the complaint in the light of Mr Hs further submissions I remain of the view 
that my provisional decision represented a fair outcome to this complaint. On that basis, I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman