DRN-3938368
The complaint
Mr A and Ms S are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined to cover their unused, pre-booked 
accommodation, under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A and Ms S purchased an annual multi trip travel insurance policy with AWP P&C S&A. 
This provided cover for various pre and post departure risks, between 15 December 2021 
and 14 December 2022. 
Mr A and Ms S have explained that they booked a holiday abroad  with them holidaying 
between 16 December 2021 and 4 January 2022, inclusive. They flew abroad as expected.
When they arrived abroad, on 17 December 2021, Mr A, Ms S and their children were 
required to take Covid-19 Antigen tests. One of these tests  child As  came back as 
testing positive for Coronavirus. A couple of days later child Bs test also came back as 
positive for the virus too.
Given the above positive tests, and that the children were minors, Mr A, Ms S and their 
children werent able to holiday as planned. Instead, theyve said the children were 
considered as hospital inpatients. But because they were asymptomatic, they were able to 
stay in the hospital-affiliated hotel, rather than the actual hospital itself.
Mr A and Ms S have said that during their time at this hotel, the children were X-rayed. And 
their heart rate and oxygen levels were continuously monitored. 
Given the above, Mr A and Ms S raised a claim with AWP, for the loss of their pre-booked 
accommodation. As well as for costs related to Covid-19 testing and staying in a hospital 
affiliated hotel. 
AWP considered the losses and accepted some of Mr A and Ms S claim. But it declined to 
provide settlement for Mr A, Ms S and their childrens unused, pre-booked accommodation. 
AWP said this was because the insurance policy only provided cover for these costs under 
the curtailment section of the policy, if they had to return home early, or were hospitalised. 
AWP said neither of these things had happened in this case. Instead, they said the family 
had been in a quarantine hotel  which wasnt covered under the curtailment section of the 
policy. 
Mr A and Ms S didnt agree with this. They felt they had a valid claim for these costs, 
because their children were considered inpatients of the hospital, with medical certificates to 
show this. So, they felt AWP should cover their unused, pre-booked accommodation costs 
too.
Mr A and Ms S raised a complaint with AWP, who maintained its position. Because Mr A and 
Ms S remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They noted 
that Mr A, Ms S and their children had really been required to quarantine, rather than being 
hospitalised. And they said the curtailment section of the policy didnt provide cover for 
unused accommodation costs incurred due to quarantine. So, they didnt recommend AWP 
do anything differently. 
Mr A and Ms S didnt agree. They said that the first hotel they arrived at, was a general-
purpose quarantine hotel. But when the children were confirmed to have positive 
Coronavirus test results, they were informed they were being sent to a hospital run facility. 
They reiterated that the hotel was run by hospital staff, and the children were both monitored 
24 hours a day, by heart and oxygen monitors. Mr A and Ms S said the children also 
received regular tests and were x-rayed too. 
In addition, Mr A and Ms S reiterated that the hospital discharge documents showed both 
children as in-patients. And so, they considered their children were hospitalised.
As Mr A and Ms S disagreed, their complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on uphold this complaint, and requiring AWP to settle this 
element of Mr A and Ms S claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. And pay interest on this settlement amount, as detailed below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AWP 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr A and Ms S claim for pre-
booked, unused accommodation. And I dont think it did.
Ive reviewed Mr A and Ms S policy documentation, to see what cover it provided. And I can 
see the policy explains that:
SECTION 2: CURTAILMENT 
()
Covered
You are covered up to the limit as shown on the Summary of Cover for the value of the 
portion of your travel, accommodation expenses calculated from the date of your early 
return home in the United Kingdom or the date of your hospitalisation as an inpatient, 
which have not been used and which were paid before your departure from your home in 
the United Kingdom.
1. Injury, serious illness, death of:
a) you
b) any person with whom you are intending to travel;
c) any person with whom you are intending to stay;
()NOTE: under a, b and d only, this will include being diagnosed with an epidemic or 
pandemic disease, such as COVID-19.
Given the above, Im aware that if a policyholder or someone they are intending to travel or 
stay with are diagnosed with Covid-19, and are hospitalised as an inpatient, then they can 
claim for unused, pre-booked travel and accommodation, under the curtailment section of 
the policy. 
Mr A and Ms S say this is what happened to them. And so, their claim should be paid under 
this section of their policy. Ive thought carefully about this. And in this particular instance, I 
think it is fair and reasonable to stay that Mr A and Ms S children were hospitalised. 
I say this because Mr A and Ms S have provided medical certificates for the children, from 
the hospital and signed by a doctor. I appreciate the medical certificates say the children 
were asymptomatic, and part of an isolation programme, by approval of the relevant hospital. 
But they do also note that the children were inpatients of the hospital. With one child being 
an inpatient between 20 December 2021 and 27 December 2021, and the other between 21 
December 2021 and 30 December 2021. The medical certificate for child B notes that 
supportive treatment and observation of respiratory symptom were given. Given the in-
patient status on these certificates, and the monitoring that Mr A and Ms S have explained 
were provided to their children, I think it is fair and reasonable to say the children were 
hospitalised - and therefore Mr A and Ms S loss falls within the terms of the curtailment 
section of the policy.
I understand that AWP dont agree the children were hospitalised. Ive explained why I 
consider that they were hospitalised, above. But, even if AWP remain in disagreement, its 
also important to note that my remit at this service is to consider what is fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances. And, in this case, I dont think declining the curtailment element 
of the claim provides a fair and reasonable result. Mr A, Ms S and their childrens holiday 
was effectively curtailed, from the time the children were considered in-patients. 
Mr A, Ms S and their childrens holiday was shortened. It being effectively curtailed because 
two of their group had fallen ill, having tested positive for Covid-19. For the time the children 
were noted as inpatients, the family couldnt participate in the holiday they had planned. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable to consider Mr A, Ms S and their childrens holiday as having 
been curtailed under the policy.
Because of this, I think AWP acted unfairly in declining this element of the claim. I think it 
would have been reasonable for AWP to accept the curtailment element of the claim, at the 
same point it accepted other elements of their claim, on 2 March 2022. And I intend on 
requiring it to settle this element of the claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. And pay interest, as detailed below, to recognise the term that Mr A and Ms S 
were without the funds.
Mr A and Ms S responded and agreed. AWP didnt respond to the merits of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA 
to settle the curtailment element of Mr A and Ms S claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
As I consider AWP should deal with the claim, I also require it to pay 8% interest, simple per 
annum, on the claims settlement, from the date AWP agreed to settle the other element of 
the claim, 2 March 2022, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
If HM Revenue & Customers requires AWP P&C SA to deduct tax from this interest, AWP 
P&C SA should give Mr A and Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they 
ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman