DRN-3939390
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked debit card payments she made to a 
particular cryptocurrency exchange and then told her that it had decided to stop all such 
transactions.
What happened
Having previously made regular payments to the crypto exchange without problems, in June 
2022 HSBC stopped a number of payments and Mrs H had to contact HSBCs fraud team to 
verify that the transactions were genuine. In doing so, she had long wait times and the calls 
sometimes got disconnected.
HSBC acknowledged the difficulties that Mrs H had in making contact and has paid her £100 
compensation for inconvenience. However, it has maintained its decision to block debit card 
payments to the crypto exchange.
Our investigator thought that HSBC had acted reasonably. Mrs H disagrees with the 
investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs reason for the payments being stopped was that they had scored highly on its fraud 
detection system. The fraud ratings system is based on a number of factors and would 
change over time depending on the information available to HSBC. So, although Mrs H had 
previously made payments to the crypto exchange without any problems, by June 2022 the 
risk factors associated with that particular exchange, in HSBCs view, were such that it was 
being caught by its fraud detection systems.
HSBCs personal banking terms and conditions set out when it can refuse to make 
payments, including:
Theres been fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind. It doesnt matter whether its 
linked to your account or your relationship with us and its reasonable for us not to 
make the payment.
The payment would cause us to break the law. Or to do so would go against 
regulation or code we follow, a court order or other duty or requirement.
The payment could mean we face action or criticism from any government.
HSBC was partly acting on information from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who had 
issued a warning to consumers on the regulatory status of the crypto exchange. And as our 
investigator has mentioned, the exchange is under investigation in the US for possible 
money laundering and tax offences. 
Overall, I consider it reasonable that HSBC put a block on those transactions as a possible 
fraud prevention measure. Mrs H was able to finally make those payments after speaking to 
HSBC. Its acknowledged that she experienced some problems when calling it and I think 
that the £100 compensation that it paid her is fair in the circumstances.
The main issue for Mrs H is that she doesnt think that HSBC should be allowed to interfere 
with what she wants to do with her money and that shes capable of making her own 
informed financial decisions, high risk or otherwise.
Mrs H has provided some information about the drawbacks of traditional banks versus 
cryptocurrencies. Its clear that she has a high degree of confidence in the crypto exchange 
in question. However, that doesnt mean that HSBC has to share that confidence or that its 
concerns arent legitimate. Based on the FCA warning and concerns raised elsewhere, its 
reasonable that HSBC blocked the debit card payments. And HSBCs decision to continue to 
block such payments, in line with its terms and conditions, in order to protect its customers, 
is also reasonable. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman