DRN-3342897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined 
a claim on their pet insurance policy for a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out pet insurance with RSA a few weeks after their pets arrived. Theyd 
been given clean bills of health during a routine check-up and vaccination, but the vet 
mentioned their testicles hadnt descended yet. Mr and Mrs J werent concerned as they said 
that would normally happen at any time in the first 24 months of the pets life. 
Two years later Mr and Mrs J were told itd become a medical issue and the testes needed 
removing. They informed RSA and were given approval. But the insurer then declined the 
claim and said the vet had informed them of a pre-existing condition before theyd taken out 
the insurance. Mr and Mrs J said that wasnt the case. And theyd provided a letter from their 
vet saying both pets had a clean bill of health when theyd had their vaccinations. 
Mr and Mrs J said the vet had explained one of the pets had complications with their 
testicles descending because of a previous operation. That surgery had been paid for by the 
insurer. And they want RSA to refund the money theyve had to pay the vet. 
RSA said it was sorry it couldnt help with the claim on this occasion. The pets had displayed 
signs of changes in health or behaviour before the cover started. And the policy excluded 
claims in such circumstances and for any illness or injury that developed from those 
changes. As the vet had noted the retained testicles before the policy had been taken out 
RSA felt itd correctly declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs J werent satisfied with RSAs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the terms and conditions of the pet 
insurance policy. And she looked at the pets medical histories. 
Our investigator could see the vet had noted on the claim form that the clinical signs had first 
been noticed in 2019 before the policy had been taken out. And the vet had made notes in 
relation to the situation during the following months, advising a wait until the pets were two 
years old before operation.
After considering the information our investigator felt RSA hadnt treated Mr and Mrs J 
unfairly in declining the claim because of the exclusion relating to any physical abnormality 
noted before the policy had been taken out or any illnesses or treatments arising from it. And 
she wouldnt be asking RSA to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator. Their vet had explained the testicles could 
take up to two years to descend. And it hadnt been noted as a medical concern. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs J have experienced. It mustve been very 
upsetting to find out RSA wouldnt consider their claim on their pet insurance policy.
It might help to explain that my role when looking at a complaint about a declined insurance 
claim is to assess whether the insurer acted fairly in turning down the claim. To do so I need 
to look at the reasons RSA gave for turning down the claim and then decide whether thats 
fair under the policy terms Mr and Mrs J agreed to when they took out the policy.
Mr and Mrs Js dispute is about whether the conditions noted by RSA before the policy was 
taken out are pre-existing or not. Thats because, like most pet insurance policies, cover isnt 
usually provided for the costs of any treatment related to something that existed before they 
took out the policy.
Mr and Mrs Js claim relates to treatment for retained testicles in both pets. RSA has 
declined the claim as it says issues with both pets testicles had been noted by the vet 
before the policy was taken out. I can see the treatment for one pet was more expensive due 
to previous surgery. But Ive not seen any evidence to show this surgery stopped the pets 
testes from dropping. 
Ive looked at the pet insurance policy documents. Under the restrictions on cover section 
the policy excludes pre-existing conditions or illness or any physical abnormality noticed 
before the policy is taken out. 
The policy says RSA cant help if you or your vet notices changes in your pets health or 
behaviour before your policy was taken out, or you have been advised before the cover start 
date that a condition, illness or injury may lead to further illness or treatments, we will 
consider this to be a pre-existing condition or illness, and it will not be covered by your 
policy. The policy continues we will not pay for any illness or injury that develops from these 
existing conditions, illnesses or injuries.
According to the clinical records the vet noted that neither pets testicles had descended 
during a routine health check when the pets were about 11 weeks old. This was carried out 
before Mr and Mrs J took out the pet insurance policy.
I understand the testes usually descend by the time most puppies are around two months 
old. And there may be a problem if it hasnt happened by the time the pup is six months old. 
Although both pets were given clean bills of health I think its fair to say the vet was warning 
Mr and Mrs J of a potential future problem that needed monitoring. 
That meant theyd been advised before the start of cover date that an existing condition 
might lead to further illness or treatment. Under the policy terms that would be considered a 
pre-existing condition  and it wouldnt be covered by the pet insurance policy.
I can see on the claim form that the vet has entered 24 February 2019 as the date the 
clinical signs were first noted. Thats around two weeks before the start date of the policy. 
The vet monitored the situation during the following year and surgery took place in 2021. 
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr and Mrs J. Theyve provided supporting 
information from their vet stating the note was a reminder to check again at the next 
examination. And they dont think RSA has considered their claim fairly. But I think its fair to say the vet had indicated there might be a future complication if the 
pets testes didnt descend in the normal timeframe. The clinical notes show the situation 
was monitored by the vet in the following months. And when that didnt happen it was clear 
that surgery was required. 
Based on what Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs J had been advised before the cover start of a 
condition that might lead to further illness or treatments. And the condition did lead to 
treatment at a later date.
I know Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed with this outcome. And I recognise the upset this 
complaint has caused. RSA has a responsibility to assess each claim it receives against the 
terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And I think its done so fairly on this 
occasion. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman