DRN-2308463
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1996. At the same time, PPI was set up to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree with our adjudicators 
view. 
Mr and Mrs H mainly say that at no point was PPI ever mentioned to them and theyve been 
paying for something they didnt need and werent told about.
Mr and Mrs H say they had work benefits and savings they could've relied on to pay their 
mortgage if they werent able to work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I've taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs H have told us they remember from 
when they arranged their mortgage and the PPI policy started. But what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the 
available information and think about the wider circumstances when I decide what I think is 
most likely.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. That 
isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened and the mortgage ended. But 
Halifaxs records show that the mortgage and the PPI started at the same time. And 
Mr and Mrs H told us that they arranged their mortgage during a meeting at a Halifax branch. 
So I think its likely thats when the PPI was sold to them as well.   
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Hs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. Without seeing any notes or records from the meeting, or any paperwork they signed, 
I dont know how Halifax presented or explained PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But it looks like the 
policy offered Mr and Mrs H better protection than they wouldve had if theyd just relied on 
their existing benefits through work and their savings (Ill say more about this later). So, I can 
see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Taking all this into account, on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H decided they 
wanted to have the benefits and security that PPI offered. 
And I think its likely that the PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account because 
they chose to buy the policy, knowing it was optional with their mortgage, although its 
completely understandable that theyve forgotten this now. 
Halifax couldnt say if it had specifically advised Mr and Mrs H to have the PPI. But in 
fairness to them, it looked at the mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had 
recommended PPI during the meeting Mr and Mrs H told us about. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, and even 
though Mr and Mrs H dont recall Halifax recommending PPI to them, I think this is the fairest 
way to assess this complaint. Thats because it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. So this way of looking at things gives Mr and Mrs Hs complaint the 
best chance of succeeding. And thats the approach Im taking too.
Based on what Ive been told, Mr and Mrs H were both eligible for the PPI. 
They met the age requirements for the policy. Halifax doesnt dispute this. (It looks like 
Mr and Mrs H have misunderstood what Halifax said about their ages in the final response 
letter it sent to them. Halifax said there was nothing to show they were not aged between 
18 and 65  in other words, Halifax agreed Mr and Mrs H were both aged between 18-65).
The policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of an accident 
or illness that prevented either (or both) of them from working. So it provided better cover 
than sick pay entitlement from an employer that paid out for 12 months but went down to half 
pay after the first 6 months off work. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay from 
work. Bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs H mightve also had some additional costs if they 
were too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time.  
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. The policy wouldve also paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr H or Mrs H became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs H couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving them long term protection 
for their mortgage.
Ive taken into account the amount of savings that Mr and Mrs H have mentioned  including 
some money that Mrs Hs mother had set aside for her in a savings account.
But I must keep in mind that, when they took out the PPI, Mr and Mrs H couldnt have been 
sure that they wouldve always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to make a claim as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
As they were first time buyers, I think its probable that they wouldve wanted to put at least 
some of their savings towards the cost of buying and setting up their home. 
And, if Mr and Mrs H didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the 
mortgage by paying a bigger deposit, perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact 
to provide financial security or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. Even if Mr and Mrs H couldnt work, PPI provided a dependable 
means of ensuring their monthly repayments were protected without them having to use their 
savings. It looks to me like Mr and Mrs H mightve felt that was a useful extra benefit.
So, based on everything Mr and Mrs H have told me about their financial situation at the 
time, I think PPI was suitable for them.
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But I dont 
think its likely that clearer information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision to take it out, as they werent affected by any of those things when 
they took out the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear when they bought the policy  but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford the premiums. So thats not a reason 
for me to uphold the complaint. 
And this was a policy Mr and Mrs H paid for monthly, so they couldve cancelled it at any 
time at no extra cost if they decided they no longer wanted it. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs H have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate they feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come 
as a disappointment. I have just dealt here with their complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. In 
my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision. 
Mr and Mrs H have mentioned a separate issue concerning the mortgage that was sold to 
them and our adjudicator has already been in touch separately about that. Theres more 
information on our website about how to complain. Briefly, Mr and Mrs H would need to 
contact Halifax themselves to explain specifically why theyre unhappy about the mortgage 
they were sold if they havent yet done that (Im not sure that just mentioning this issue 
during a phone call when discussing their PPI complaint wouldve been sufficient to make 
Halifax aware it needed to start a new complaint about a mis-sold mortgage). 
If Halifax doesnt respond to their complaint within 8 weeks, or Mr and Mrs H dont feel any 
response from Halifax satisfactorily resolves their concerns about the mortgage they were 
sold, then Mr and Mrs H may be able to bring a separate complaint about their mortgage to 
this Service. The decision I've made about their PPI doesnt affect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman