DRN-1280527
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked and reissued his card, even 
though the transaction he was trying to make wasn't fraudulent. And he complains about 
what Nationwide said when he asked why the card was blocked.
What happened
Mr C was trying to buy groceries online, and his card was declined. He had to borrow money 
to complete his purchase. No one rang him about this, so he rang Nationwide, and it told him 
his card was blocked. Nationwide wasnt able to unblock his card, and told him to call back 
the next day. 
Mr C said he was initially told that his card had been compromised by a government agency, 
which caused him great concern. He was later told the block was due to the online 
transaction he tried to make. Mr Cs card had been stopped, hed had to order a new one. 
Nationwide paid Mr C £50 for inconvenience, but he didnt want that. He didnt think it was 
enough to make up for what had happened. He said he wanted better compensation and a 
better apology.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Nationwide had 
acted unreasonably. She said ultimately its up to banks to decide how exactly they protect 
their customers from fraud. But she didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. And 
she didnt think Mr C had been disadvantaged by any wrong information he was initially 
given. She said the £50 Nationwides paid provided a fair outcome to the complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said it was unreasonable to block the account for fraud when there 
wasnt any fraud. He didnt think Nationwide shouldve cancelled his card. The process and 
procedure was unreasonable. He said that he had been given four different explanations for 
what went wrong, and he didnt appreciate being lied to. He said hed lost trust in Nationwide 
now, and his mortgage and bank account are there. 
Because Mr C wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, it was passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C wanted us to look at the block placed on his card, and what Nationwide did when he 
asked it about this block. Nationwide has said that it was trying to keep Mr Cs card safe. But 
Mr C said he hadnt been given a proper explanation of what happened, and he didnt think 
that Nationwide should have either blocked his card or forced the issue of a new one. I understand why Mr C has said he wanted to know what had really happened. But I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide to provide Mr C with a lot of detail about what triggered the security 
concern, and why his card was blocked. Keeping the exact details of what causes security 
concerns secret can be an important part of keeping Mr Cs card safe. So, I dont agree with 
Mr C that Nationwide was wrong to block his card even though the transaction he made 
turned out not to be fraudulent. And I dont think it was wrong to make sure that a 
replacement was issued. 
But I do think that Nationwide should avoid giving confusing and contradictory explanations 
for whats gone wrong. Mr C has said repeatedly that Nationwide contradicted itself in the 
reasons it gave him for his card being blocked. I know that the specialist team that deals with 
fraud at Nationwide wasnt available when Mr C called, but I dont think that means that 
Nationwide can give Mr C confusing or misleading information.
I appreciate that Mr C was inconvenienced by having a transaction declined, and his card 
reissued. And I understand why hes unhappy about the information on the block Nationwide 
gave him. But I dont think he was otherwise disadvantaged by that, and Ive explained why I 
dont think that Nationwide has to provide a detailed explanation to Mr C now of why a 
security alert was triggered on his card. 
I can see that Nationwide has paid Mr C £50 to say sorry that he wasnt able to speak to the 
specialist team straight away. Thats in line with what I wouldve awarded in this case, if 
Nationwide hadnt already paid it. So, like our investigator, I also think Nationwide has 
already provided a fair outcome to this complaint. For that reason, I wont ask it to do any 
more. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman