DRN-3932527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded money they lost to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in March 2021 Mr T was tricked by scammers into making payments 
totalling £12,982 from his Lloyds account (held with Mrs T) as follows.
10 March 2021 £3,000
11 March 2021 £2,232
18 March 2021 £5,000
22 March 2021 £2,750
Lloyds refunded Mr and Mrs T half of the first two payments (£2,616) and paid them an 
additional £100 compensation for service issues. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy and referred 
their complaint about Lloyds to us. One of our Investigators looked into things but was 
unable to resolve matters informally. The case has therefore been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator.
Lloyds are a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that the customer made the relevant payments without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom 
they transacted was legitimate; (there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but 
this is the relevant one here). 
In this case, Lloyds says Mr T did not have a reasonable basis for belief (as referred to 
above); that the first two payments were unusual, however, and it didnt intervene in those 
payments, but Mr T ignored its warnings about the third and fourth payments  so it refunded  
Mr and Mrs T half of the first two payments (but none of the last two payments). 
Ive thought about this carefully and Im satisfied this is fair. Ill explain why.
Payments one and two
Im not persuaded Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing that his payments were for 
genuine goods or services, or that the person or business with whom he transacted was 
legitimate. 
I understand Mr T says he did some checks, particularly into the two directors he was in 
touch with, and Ive considered everything Mr T has said about this. But given the context in 
which Mr T was contacted by the scammers, and the fact the scammers told Mr T not to tell 
Lloyds the real reason for his payments, I think Mr T should have been on alert. 
Mr T has admitted he found it strange that the scammers told him not to be upfront with 
Lloyds about the reasons for the payments. I dont think the steps he took as a result of this 
were sufficient for me to say he had a reasonable basis for believing things were legitimate. 
Instead, I think Mr T really ought to have looked into things further before making the 
payments; and that, had he done so, it ought to have become clear to him that he was very 
likely, if not certainly, being scammed. 
This means Im satisfied its fair for Lloyds to rely on the reasonable basis for belief CRM 
Code exception. That said, Lloyds says the first two payment instructions were unusual for 
the account, and so it would have been appropriate for it to intervene at this earlier stage 
and provide an effective warning (rather than at payment three). In circumstances like this, 
the CRM Code allows for the customer (here that means Mr and Mrs T of course) to receive 
a 50% refund (rather than no refund). So, Im satisfied Lloyds refunding Mr and Mrs T half of 
the first two payments was fair and reasonable.
Payments three and four 
For the same reasons as already explained, Im not persuaded Mr T had a reasonable basis 
for believing that his payments were for genuine goods or services, or that the person or 
business with whom he transacted was legitimate. 
But here Lloyds also intervened. It paused the £5,000 payment (the third payment), and 
spoke to Mr T on the phone before allowing it through. Im satisfied from the evidence that 
Lloyds did its best to help protect Mr T during this call. It told Mr T the payment had been 
flagged as having a higher risk than normal of being fraud; and that fraudsters often tell 
customers not to discuss things with the bank. It asked Mr T what the payment was for. To 
which Mr T incorrectly told Lloyds building works which, he said, had been done to his 
satisfaction. Lloyds and Mr T then briefly discussed email interception scams. And then 
when Lloyds asked Mr T whether anyone had asked him to make the payment for any other 
reason, Mr T said No. And then when Lloyds asked Mr T whether anyone had told him to 
mislead or lie to Lloyds about why he was making this payment, Mr T said, No, not at all. 
I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong when it tried to intervene and help Mr T. I think it did its 
best to warn Mr T about the risks of financial harm from fraud and scams, and it provided an 
effective warning based on the information Mr T gave it. I would expect Lloyds to have given 
an effective warning specific to the actual scam that Mr T was the victim of, however Mr T 
prevented Lloyds from uncovering the scam by using a cover story. Im not satisfied that 
further questioning wouldve uncovered the actual scam. Also, I think its more likely than not 
Mr T wouldve ignored a relevant scam warning and proceeded with the payment regardless. 
I say this because it seems to me that Mr T made the last payment despite already having 
doubts, and I think, in this case, that even if Lloyds had been able to put those doubts in his 
mind earlier through a relevant effective warning, the outcome would probably have been the 
same.This means Im satisfied its fair for Lloyds to rely on the reasonable basis for belief CRM 
Code exception with regards to these payments too. And theres no basis on which I can 
reasonably tell Lloyds to refund any part of payments three and four. 
Ive also considered Lloyds efforts to recover the funds when Mr T told it hed been 
scammed. Im satisfied Lloyds did what it could but unfortunately, through no fault of its own, 
it wasnt able to recover the funds.
I realise this means Mr and Mrs T are out of pocket. But it wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
Lloyds to do anything more here. Its already paid Mr and Mrs T half of payments one and 
two. Ive explained why Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. Im also satisfied the £100 
compensation for service issues was fair and reasonable. In these circumstances, I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman