DRN-4011758
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt paid a claim she made 
under her travel insurance policy
What happened
Mrs H holds an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy that covers her for trips between 
19 April 2022 and 18 April 2023. The insurer is Admiral.
Mrs H had booked a trip abroad between 20 April and 6 May 2022. Her return flight to and 
from the UK was to a country Ill call S. During the trip, Mrs H had also travelled to another 
country Ill call B. On her way back to the UK, the flight from B was delayed. This led to 
Mrs H missing her flight from S back to the UK. Mrs H made a claim to Admiral for the 
additional costs she incurred because of this.
Mrs H made a claim to Admiral in May 2022. Admiral asked Mrs H to send more information 
in June 2022 to consider her claim, including information from the airline confirming the 
reason for the flight delay. 
Mrs H sent this to Admiral in August 2022. It first said that her claim wouldnt be covered 
because the flight delay was due to technical issues. But when Mrs H sent further 
information a few days later, Admiral said the claim wasnt covered because the policy only 
covered the first part of the outward and final part of the return journey  these were the 
flights to and from S. Admiral said there was no cover for claims relating to connecting 
flights, unless domestic. 
As the flight that was delayed was an international flight to S, rather than a domestic flight, 
Admiral said this wasnt covered under the policy. Unhappy with Admirals response, Mrs H 
brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, he didnt think 
Admiral had unfairly declined the claim. This was because he thought the policy terms made 
it clear that only the flights to and from the UK were covered, and connecting flights werent 
covered, unless domestic. But as the flight that was delayed wasnt the return flight to the 
UK, or a domestic connecting flight, Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. Our 
investigator was also satisfied that the information was clear when Mrs H bought her policy.
That said, our investigator thought Admiral shouldve told Mrs H sooner the reason why her 
claim wasnt covered. This wouldve saved her the inconvenience of having to ask the airline 
for further information for the reason for delay, as this information wasnt actually needed. 
Our investigator thought Admiral should pay Mrs H £100 for this inconvenience, and for 
delaying her claim. Admiral agreed with the recommendation.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she said that the whole point 
of taking out the insurance was to cover this type of situation. And she still wasnt happy that 
Admiral didnt tell her sooner the claim wasnt covered. Mrs H says had it done so, she 
couldve pursued the airline for compensation instead. Mrs H also says her travelling 
companion had their claim paid promptly without any evidence required.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint.
Firstly, I can only consider what happened with Mrs Hs claim with Admiral. And insurers are 
entitled to ask for reasonable evidence from policyholders in support of their claim.
Mrs Hs policy provides cover for delayed or missed departure under Section 5 of the policy. 
She specifically wanted to claim for a missed international departure, which covers the 
following:
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule to cover reasonable 
expenses for additional accommodation and travel if you fail to arrive at your point of 
international departure in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train as a result 
of:
failure or delays to scheduled public transport in which you are traveling. (This 
includes domestic connecting flights that take you to the international departure point 
but excludes taxis)
Section 5 also includes cover for a benefit for a delayed international departure. But this 
section of the policy also says the following:
We will not pay any claim:
for missed international departure (where it is not leaving or returning to the UK) 
caused by a failure or delay to any connecting flight
Additionally, the policy terms and conditions include a section titled Important Information. 
These include a section Connecting flights which says the following:
We will only provide cover for the first part of your outward and final part of your return 
journey of your trip. No cover is provided under Section 5: Delay and Missed Departure for 
any claims relating to onward/connecting flights except where domestic connecting flights 
are used as scheduled public transport to take you to the international departure point to 
leave ore return to the UK.
And finally, the Important Product Information Document (IPID) says under What is not 
insured? the following: 
Travel Delay: for delays lasting less than 12 hours or for any flights other than the first 
international departure from the UK or the final flight returning you to the UK.Having considered everything, I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when it declined 
Mrs Hs claim, as the policy only provides cover for the first outward flight from, and the final 
return flight to, the UK. It also specifically doesnt provide cover for connecting flights, unless 
domestic. Mrs Hs flight from B to S was an international flight, rather than a domestic one. 
And as the delay was with the flight from B to S, rather than from S to the UK, I think Admiral 
has acted fairly by saying theres no cover under the policy terms.
I also think the policy documentation is sufficiently clear that only the first and last (or the 
return) flight to the UK is covered, and theres no cover for connecting flights (unless 
domestic). And Admiral has shown that Mrs H wouldve been presented with the IPID and 
the policy terms when she bought the policy. Overall, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
That said, I agree with our investigator that Admiral had enough information to decline 
Mrs Hs claim much earlier. This wouldve saved Mrs H from the distress and inconvenience 
of having to pursue her claim and ask the airline for evidence in support of her claim. Admiral 
has agreed to pay her £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part. I direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman