DRN-2792705
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Miss O was given two loans by EDL in 2018 and 2019.
Loan 1 was for £1,300 in May 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments of about £204. The total amount repayable, including interest was just over 
£2,453. 
Loan 2 was for £1,000 in July 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of about £108. The total amount payable, including interest was just over 
£1,957.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think EDL should have provided 
Miss O with either loan and he asked EDL to put things right. EDL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to 
resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Os complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision each time? 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss O irresponsibly. 
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so EDL had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss O. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O would 
be able repay her loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but 
it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan 
term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period) and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
EDL was required to establish whether Miss O could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Os complaint.
Loan 1
EDL asked Miss O for information and evidence of her income. EDL also acquired a credit 
report and reviewed bank statements from Miss O. EDL used ONS data to assess Miss Os 
expenditure and it calculated her monthly payments to outstanding creditors. From what Ive 
seen, I think the checks that EDL carried out before it agreed to provide loan 1 to Miss O 
were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, I dont think that EDL made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
EDL calculated that after considering Miss Os income, allowance for expenditure and credit 
repayments, Miss O had no disposable income. EDL says that Miss O was planning to use 
its loan to consolidate some of her debts and that this would leave her with disposable 
income of around £118 per month. EDL thinks this means the loan was affordable for her. 
But as Ive explained, EDL was required to establish whether Miss O could sustainably repay 
her loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
basisI think EDL ought reasonably to have been aware from the information it had gathered that 
Miss O was in a very difficult financial position. She was frequently overdrawn and had been 
borrowing from several other high cost and payday lenders. There was a risk that Miss O 
might not use her loan to consolidate some of her debt as planned and she may still have 
had no or little disposable income available to her during the loan term.  I think EDL ought 
reasonably to have realised that even with partial debt consolidation, Miss O would most 
likely struggle to repay her loan sustainably over the full loan term and may have to borrow 
again in order to manage the extent of her debts. On balance, I think EDL ought reasonably 
to have declined to lend to her.
Loan 2
EDL carried out similar checks before it provided the second loan to Miss O. I think these 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. But in the circumstances I dont think it EDL 
made a fair lending decision.
I think EDL ought fairly to have realised that Miss Os financial position had worsened in 
between the first and second loans. Her overall indebtedness had substantially increased, 
her bank statements showed she was regularly overdrawn and paying charges and she was 
now paying at least three of her debts through debt collection agencies. EDL calculated that 
Miss O had sufficient disposable income to afford the second loan. But I think it ought 
reasonably to have realised that she was struggling to manage her financial position and that 
it was unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay her second loan over the extended 
loan term. I think in these circumstances, EDL should reasonably have concluded that it was 
not appropriate to lend to Miss O for a second time. 
I have carefully reviewed everything that Miss O and EDL have told us, but taking everything 
into account, I am upholding Miss Os complaint about both loans.
Miss O says that EDL didnt signpost her to free debt advice services. I havent seen enough 
about this for me to fairly say that EDL has acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Miss O in 
this or any other way. But I dont think EDL should have agreed to provide either loan to Miss 
O. So EDL needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss O to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on loans 
that shouldnt have been provided to her.
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on both loans and treat all the payments 
Miss O made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Os loan account results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss O.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give 
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman