DRN-2380614
The complaint
Mr E complains about a valuation related to his mortgage from Nationwide Building Society 
which meant that he tried to renegotiate the price, but he then lost out on the deal. Mr E 
would like to be reimbursed the fees he lost and rent he had to pay.
What happened
Mr E was a first-time buyer and agreed to purchase a property at £265,000.00. He applied 
for a mortgage with Nationwide for £35,000.00. As part of the mortgage application 
Nationwide required a valuation. The valuation was for £265,000.00. But this changed when 
the valuer was advised that part of the garden was rented rather than part of the title and the 
valuer reduced the valuation to £240,000.00. Based on this Mr E tried to negotiate a lower 
price, but the vendor wouldnt agree and pulled out of the deal. Then the valuer after a 
review decided that the original valuation should stand. But by that time Mr E had lost out on 
the deal. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as 
Nationwide hadnt reduced its mortgage offer to Mr E.
Mr E disagrees saying in summary that Nationwide should have realised from the sales 
literature that the garden wasnt part of the property to be sold and the valuer should have 
known this from the start.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr E applied for a mortgage, Nationwide required a valuation and got one from an 
independent and qualified valuer. That valuation was reduced when the valuer was told that 
a part of the garden wasnt included in the property for sale. Mr E says that the valuer should 
have known this. As a result, the valuer reduced his valuation but later reassessed it. Based 
on the lower valuation, Mr E appears to have negotiated unsuccessfully with his vendor 
which unfortunately meant that he lost out on the deal. Mr E complains about Nationwide 
and I have to decide if they were at fault.
The difficulty for Mr E is that I cant see that Nationwide did anything wrong. Mr E had 
decided what he thought the property was worth. Nationwide engaged a valuer to make sure 
that its loan was covered by the value of the property. That was confirmed and so 
Nationwide was able to offer the loan that Mr E wanted. There was an issue about the 
garden and the valuation reduced but Nationwide continued to offer the money Mr E wanted. 
It did not advise Mr E to reduce his offer or say that it wouldnt lend unless the price was 
reduced.
Ultimately, Nationwide lends money with property as security. It didnt offer any service to Mr 
E as a property advisor. It met its duty to Mr E by processing his mortgage application and, 
as he was successful, by offering him a mortgage. It didnt advise Mr E to renegotiate the 
price which led to the deal failing. As that wasnt the fault of Nationwide, I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman