DRN-4036310
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how W E Bedford Insurance Services (Wimbledon) Ltd referred her 
to an accident management company following a claim she made after her car was hit.
What happened
Mrs H held a motor insurance policy via W E Bedford  an insurance broker. When her car 
was hit while parked in October 2019, she called W E Bedford to make a claim.
W E Bedford referred Mrs H to an accident management company (AMC) to arrange for her 
vehicle to be repaired, provide hire while it was repaired, and claim this back from the insurer 
of the vehicle which hit hers (the TPI).
While the AMC was dealing with her claim, Mrs H said she faced delays in getting paid the 
settlement  getting it split across a number of different payments. Most these payments 
were made in reasonably quick succession, with the penultimate one being made in January 
2020. But the final payment of £3,785 wasnt paid until September 2022. Mrs H also said she 
was told she might have to pay up to £20,000 for the hire car if she didnt cooperate with the 
AMC.
Mrs H said the whole experience left her without money for longer than needed and caused 
distress an inconvenience in having to chase for updates and being told she might be liable 
for a large bill.
Our investigator recommended Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. She didnt think W E Bedford 
had shown it had done what it needed to when referring her to the AMC. She acknowledged 
the AMC were acting separately from W E Bedford, and that W E Bedford werent 
responsible for everything the AMC did. But she thought some distress and inconvenience 
could have been avoided had it done a better referral.
Our investigator recommended W E Bedford pay Mrs H £500 compensation. And she 
recommended it pay 8% simple interest on the final £3,785 payment Mrs H received to settle 
her claim.
Mrs H agreed with our investigators assessment. W E Bedford didnt accept it and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
When her car was hit, Mrs H called W E Bedford to report the incident and make a claim. W 
E Bedford - because of the circumstances of the incident indicating Mrs H wasnt at fault  
referred her to an AMC. This meant she wasnt claiming on her insurance policy anymore, 
but instead, was, with the help of the AMC, claiming directly from the TPI.
This is something W E Bedford is entitled to do, and there can often be benefits to 
consumers by taking this route. But crucially, when carrying out any referral, W E Bedford 
needs to give Mrs H information thats clear fair and not misleading. It needs to give her 
enough information about the benefits and drawbacks of any option it presents Mrs H with to 
allow her to make an informed choice.
And in this case, Im not satisfied it did that. The first notification of loss call isnt available, so 
I cant say for certain what she was told by W E Bedford. But when Mrs H first speaks with 
the AMC its clear shes not sure who they are or who they are acting for. In the call she asks 
if the AMC are her insurer or whether they are a separate business, to which the AMC says 
they are a separate business. But in the same call the AMC also says theyre acting on 
behalf of her insurer. Mrs H says she wants to speak with her insurer first before proceeding.
In the other call Ive listened to, Mrs H says shes spoken to the insurer and shes happy to 
proceed, but its still not clear what was discussed in that call either. And regardless, 
whatever was discussed in that call doesnt take away from W E Bedfords own 
responsibilities.
Ultimately, its not my role to make a finding on what the AMC, or Mrs Hs insurer said to her. 
But I think understanding those calls helps understand some context. And it points to Mrs H 
not really understanding exactly how the AMC were operating, who they were ultimately 
acting for and what the implications of this were.
And knowing this, coupled with the lack of evidence surrounding what W E Bedford 
discussed with Mrs H means I cant possibly be satisfied W E Bedford did all it was required 
to do.
Therefore, on the weight of evidence, it didnt do what it needed and consider what would 
have happened had it done so. I cant say for certain, but reasonably Im satisfied from 
listening to the available calls that if given information that was clear fair and not misleading, 
Mrs H would likely have not chosen to use the AMC and used her own insurer instead. 
Because from the calls I have listened to, its clear Mrs H wants her insurer involved. And 
much of the worry and anxiety has been caused by foreseeable consequences of using the 
AMC in place of her insurer. So, I think if Mrs H was aware of these potential consequences, 
shed not have chosen to use an AMC.
So, Ive gone on to consider what would, or wouldnt have happened had Mrs H used her 
own insurer instead of the AMC. In other words, Ive considered the impact of the referral.
Not everything that went wrong with the AMC is down to W E Bedfords referral to it. The 
AMC was acting in its own right and is responsible for its own actions. But I find it reasonable 
to say that had she gone through her own insurer, she wouldnt have had the settlement paid 
in multiple instalments, one with a significant delay. This is because her insurer would have 
paid her itself, then claimed the money back from the TPI. Any delay in the TPI paying 
Mrs Hs insurer would have unlikely impacted Mrs H. And I find it unlikely shed have been 
told she might be liable for a significant hire charge bill either.
To put things right then, W E Bedford should pay 8% simple interest on the final payment of 
£3,785. Interest should be calculated from the date of the penultimate payment in January 
2020, to the point it was paid to Mrs H in September 2022. This is because shes been 
without the use of that money for that time and awarding 8% simple interest follows our 
standard approach in similar circumstances.
W E Bedford should also compensate Mrs H £500 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by the chasing and being told she might be liable for a large hire bill. This would be distressing to anyone, especially when considering this all arose from Mrs Hs 
car being hit while stationary. Mrs H has said this caused her significant distress, sleepless 
nights and worry. And I think its unlikely this would have occurred had the referral been 
carried out better and Mrs H used her motor insurance policy instead.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require W E Bedford Insurance 
Services (Wimbledon) Ltd to:
pay Mrs H 8% simple interest on the final payment of £3,785. Interest should be 
calculated from the date of the penultimate payment in January 2020, to the point it 
was paid to Mrs H in September 2022.
Pay Mrs H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman