DRN-2336185
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) increased the fee on his Premier 
account by £1 whilst reducing the benefits that the account came with. Specifically, Mr H 
is unhappy that the interest free portion of his overdraft facility was reduced. These 
changes were put into place in February 2020 and April 2020 respectively.
Mr H has explained that he did not receive the letters that Lloyds issued in November 
2019 and January 2020 informing him that this change was going to happen
What happened
Our adjudicators have already investigated Mr Hs complaint and didnt think that Lloyds had 
treated him unfairly. 
They said that Lloyds were entitled to change the products it offered and it was up to the 
account holders to decide if they still wished to keep the Premier account once the changes 
had been made. They also said that they were satisfied that Mr H wouldve been informed of 
the changes prior to them occurring due to the letters that Lloyds provided in November 
2019 and January 2020.
Given this, the adjudicators didnt recommend that Lloyds should give him any money back. 
Mr H didnt agree with these findings as he did not get the letters from Lloyds and asked for 
an ombudsman to review his case.
 
So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Hs case.
Ive looked into everything that Mr H and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As we have previously explained to Mr H, Lloyds is entitled to change the terms of the 
packaged bank accounts that it offers. Lloyds is allowed to make commercial decisions in 
relation to the price and benefits of these accounts. The proviso of that entitlement is that it 
has to inform an account holder prior to these changes occurring.
Mr H says he was not informed about these changes by Lloyds. Lloyds conversely has 
provided copies of the letters that it says it sent Mr H. There is nothing to confirm beyond 
doubt that these letters were sent, or indeed received by Mr H, but there is also nothing to 
show that they were not issued either. Overall, and on balance, I think that it is more likely 
than not that these letters were issued by Lloyds and, as they are correctly addressed, I 
think that it is likely that they were received by Mr H as well.
But even if I were satisfied that Lloyds did not send these letters, which I am not saying is 
the case, I would need to consider what detriment that this had for Mr H. In this instance it 
appears that Mr H was aware of the changes that were due to occur on his account before 
the changes occurred. This is clear from the fact that he raised a complaint with Lloyds In 
January 2020 about the upcoming changes to his account. So, given that Mr H was aware of 
the changes prior to them occurring, the onus was on him to decide whether to accept these 
changes or to change his account.
I understand that this will be frustrating for Mr H. But I am unable to tell Lloyds what products 
it should offer its customers and I am satisfied that Mr H was aware of the changes prior to 
them occurring. Therefore, Lloyds has done what it needs to in this regard. Given this I am 
unable to uphold his complaint as I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong that 
detrimentally affected Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman