DRN-3397854
The complaint
Mrs V complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handling of her claim under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs V had a leak at her home and contacted BG. It sent an engineer who noticed that there 
was extensive damage to the ceiling and that the insulation was sodden with water. The 
engineer took photos of the damage which BG said was existing damage. The engineer 
repaired the leak. 
Mrs V believed that the repairs that the engineer carried out were not done correctly and this 
meant that the leak persisted. A few days later, Mrs V contacted BG again to report that her 
ceiling had fallen in due to the work that the engineer had done. It sent another engineer and 
Mrs V complained to him that BG should repair the ceiling.  She believed that because BG 
had been to her home a few times, over a period of a few weeks, it hadnt properly repaired 
the leak, which then led to the ceiling collapsing. 
BG wouldnt repair the ceiling. It said that when the first engineer attended, he found that 
there was existing damage from a previous leak. So, the ceiling collapsing was 
consequential damage. Mrs V had to get the ceiling repaired at a cost of £1,140 and asked 
BG to reimburse her. But it declined, as it felt it wasnt to blame of the ceiling collapsing. 
Mrs V complained to BG. In its final response, BG maintained its position, that it wasnt at 
fault for the ceiling collapsing. It said that the ceiling had collapsed prior to its engineer 
attending. And as the damage was pre-exiting, Mrs Vs policy provided no cover for BG to 
repair it. Mrs V was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His 
view was that the damage to the ceiling was pre-existing as it had been damaged before BG 
attended to repair the leak. BG did repair the leak, but due to the escape of water that had 
happened before, which soaked the insulation, this in turn caused the ceiling to collapse. He 
didnt agree that it was BG who hadnt properly repaired the leak. Further, as the policy 
terms and conditions stated that BG wouldnt be responsible for any pre-exiting damage, he 
concluded that BG wasnt responsible for repairing the ceiling. 
BG accepted the view, Mrs V did not. She raised several points. She said that the facts 
outlined by BG were not accurate and essentially her complaint was that BG had failed to 
properly repair the leak. Had it done so the ceiling would not have collapsed. Mrs V said that 
she had to have the ceiling repaired privately at a cost of £1,140 and she wanted BG to 
reimburse her the cost. So, she which asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mrs V, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
I note that Mrs V has made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I think that the main issue in this complaint is whether BG failed to repair the leak at the first 
visit in June 2021. And whether BG ought to have repaired the ceiling when it noticed that it 
was damaged. 
Mrs V contacted BG when she found a leak in her home. BG sent an engineer. Mrs V 
contends that the engineer failed to properly repair the leak and because of this failure, the 
leak continued which then resulted in the ceiling collapsing. BG said that the engineer who 
attended fully repaired the leak. Found that there was damage already caused to the ceiling 
due to the leak and took photographs of the damaged ceiling. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what BG was responsible for. The 
relevant section of the policy documents relates to the plumbing section. The policy permits 
Up to £1,000, including VAT, for getting access and making good for each repair. I asked 
BG to provide an explanation as to what this term meant. It said that as it didnt cause the 
damage, as the water leak had already occurred, and damage was therefore pre-existing. 
Consequently, BG said that it wouldnt be responsible for repairing the damage.
I have been provided with some photographs that ware date stamped and showed that when 
the BG engineer attended, there was already damage caused to the ceiling by way of cracks 
and holes. I note that Mrs V accepted that there was damage to her ceiling.  Accordingly, I 
cant agree that BG were responsible for the damage caused to the ceiling, nor was it 
responsible to repair the ceiling as the damage had already been caused prior it its 
attendance. 
I have next considered Mrs Vs complaint that BG failed to properly repair the leak, as there 
was still water escaping following the initial visit. As we are not experts in this area, we would 
look at the reports from those considered to be experts. Mrs V was asked whether she 
wanted to provide me with any further evidence, either from a loss adjuster or from an expert 
that supported her opinion that the leak hadnt been properly repaired. She said she was 
unable to provide any form of expert report, which means that the only expert evidence 
before me is from BG.
On 2 July 2021, Mrs V contacted BG to report that she was experiencing reduced water 
pressure. BG sent two engineers to investigate. The first engineer found a leak and replaced 
a leaking isolation valve. But this didnt fix the leak. The second engineer who attended later 
replaced pipework leading up to the valve. 
Mrs V said that it was this extra escape of water (due to the failure of BG properly repairing 
the leak initially) that caused further damage and ultimately caused the ceiling to collapse.
I asked BG how it could be certain that extra damage wasnt caused to the ceiling as there 
were leaks that had persisted for a few days, before all the leaks were completely repaired. It said that the pictures taken by its engineer at the initial visit, clearly show multiple holes 
and cracks in the ceiling. It also showed that there had been a lot of water damage, which 
would have required the whole ceiling to be replaced.
It further said that there were also photos of the insulation which was very damp, and this 
wouldve continued to cause further damage to the roof, without any more leaks. If the leak 
had been fully repaired in the first instance, the ceiling may not have collapsed. But it would 
certainly have needed replacing as it had been structurally compromised. 
It further explained that the repairs needed after the ceiling collapsed, would have been the 
same as those needed before it had attended. And it wouldnt expect its engineers to have 
carried out any remedial work under the policy, irrespective of the additional days of the 
water escaping. This was because it already knew that the damage had been done, to the 
extent that a repair was needed.
I have considered the photographic evidence and I can see that there was extensive 
damage caused to the ceiling. Also, that the insulation appeared to be soaked with water. 
So, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not, that the damage that had been done 
before BG attended wouldve meant that a repair was needed and was likely to have been 
the same repair (that is the replacement of the ceiling) that Mrs V ultimately carried out. And 
as the damage was pre-existing, I cant agree that BG wouldve been responsible to repair it. 
Moreover, BG attended on 6 July and checked for any further leaks but found none, so I 
cant agree that BG didnt completely repair the leaks. And, I do think that the damage to the 
ceiling had already been done by its initial visit. So, I cant reasonably ask BG to reimburse 
Mrs V the cost of the repairs, as I think it wasnt responsible for the damage. 
I understand that this is not the outcome that Mrs V wouldve liked and I do sympathise with 
the stress that this would have caused. But Im unable to direct BG to take any further action 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman