DRN-3818341
The complaint
Mrs A complains Equifax Limited incorrectly linked a third partys information with hers which 
caused the third partys financial information to appear on Mrs As credit file.
What happened
Mrs A says her and her mother in law have the same first and last name. Mrs A received a 
copy of her credit report from a website which displays credit information given to them by 
Equifax. And it was at this point, Mrs A noticed her credit report contained financial 
information relating to her mother in law.
Mrs A was worried her mother in law could, in turn, have seen financial information about 
Mrs A on her credit file and she was worried this would cause arguments due to previous 
financial difficulties. Mrs A says this worry triggered her anxiety and that she wasnt able to 
sleep as she was worrying over what could have potentially been seen by her mother in law 
on her own credit file. Mrs A also says she feels Equifax have breached data protection laws 
and said her financial information shouldnt have been shared. So, on 10 June 2022, Mrs A 
raised a complaint with Equifax about this.
Equifax say their matching systems are designed to ensure all personal information relating 
to a customer is returned and there are allowances in their matching routine for some 
differences in identifying information. Equifax recognised Mrs A and her mother in law have 
different dates of birth and also that Mrs As mother in law has a middle name, but Mrs A 
does not. However, in this instance, due to Mrs A and Mrs As mother in law having the 
same first and last name, Equifax said an error happened due to the similarities in the 
names, which led to information incorrectly being linked. 
To resolve this issue, Equifax say they loaded a notice of disassociation to their database on 
16 June 2022 and again on 2 August 2022 and Mrs A was sent confirmation from Equifax 
about this. The notice of disassociation ensures all of the financial information is separated 
and prevents any potential reoccurrence of this issue. Equifax offered Mrs A a total of £110 
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience and distress caused.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs As concerns. Ultimately, our Investigator considered the 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs A as a result of this issue and recommended 
Equifax pay Mrs A £300 compensation in total.
Mrs A accepted our Investigators view. But Equifax didnt. In summary they said, there was 
no evidence to suggest Mrs As mother in law obtained a credit report from Equifax and that 
if Mrs A had debts that her mother in law helped with previously, then this would suggest Mrs 
As mother in law already knows or knew of Mrs As financial position. Equifax recognised 
that when they raised a case on their system about this issue, they referred to Mrs As 
mother in laws name which upset Mrs A. But Equifax clarified they didnt send 
correspondence to Mrs A addressing her by her mother in laws name as suggested by our 
Investigator. Overall, Equifax didnt think £300 compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax have acknowledged a mistake happened with their matching systems, which 
incorrectly linked Mrs A to her mother in law, causing Mrs As mother in laws information to 
appear on Mrs As credit file. So, whats left for me to decide is the impact this mistake has 
had on Mrs A and whether Equifax have done enough to put things right.
Mrs A has described in quite a lot of detail the impact this issue has had on her. Mrs A told 
us that financial matters in her home and for her personally are extremely triggering. Mrs A 
says her mother in law helped her out financially previously and that this was a distressing 
and embarrassing time. So, having the thought of her financial information being potentially 
exposed to her mother in law has brought all of this to the forefront of her mind.
Mrs A says even though Equifax corrected this issue by adding a notice of disassociation, 
shes still extremely anxious about her mother in law seeing her financial information. Mrs A 
also said she noticed a note has been added to her credit file which said something along 
the lines of asking any future potential lenders or creditors to check her creditworthiness 
going forward, which has made Mrs A worry about the potential impact the incorrect 
information link may have on her future. Mrs A also told us this has potential to cause 
difficulty in her marriage and the lives of her children. Overall, Mrs A says she feels she has 
this hanging over her and doesnt feel this is fair. I appreciate these concerns and I dont 
wish to downplay what has happened in any way, but I cant ask Equifax to put right what 
hasnt happened or what could potentially happen in the future. I can only look at the impact 
this issue has already had on Mrs A.
Mrs A says she found out about the data matching issue when she was on holiday with her 
family. Mrs A felt extremely vulnerable, sick and ashamed and has also had sleepless nights 
worrying about this issue. Mrs A was scared her mother in law may contact her husband on 
their holiday. As a result, Mrs A says she frantically tried to find out more information about 
this issue when she should have been relaxing with her family.
Im sorry to read of the concern and worry this has caused Mrs A, and I can appreciate the 
impact this issue has had on her. Mrs A has told us that there was previous history of 
financial difficulties which her mother in law helped her with, so I can understand why the 
thought of her mother in law potentially seeing her current financial affairs worried her. Even 
though Mrs As mother in law may have helped her financially previously, I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest Mrs A may not want her mother in law to know about her current 
financial matters. 
Additionally, Mrs A says Equifax raised several cases to try and resolve this issue. And in 
doing so, on one occasion, she saw a case was raised in her mother in laws name (which 
included her first, middle and last name). And this caused her further panic as Mrs A thought 
her mother in law contacted Equifax to raise the same issue about information being 
incorrectly linked to her credit file. Equifax have provided evidence of what Mrs A said when 
she noticed this on 31 July 2022. And I can see Mrs A asked if another case had been 
opened for her by someone else. Mrs A reiterated this isnt her name and was in fact her 
mother in laws. Equifax say this was a request that an internal agent raised to the website 
Mrs A received her credit report from and that the dispute form had Mrs As mother in laws 
name to show this was the disputed name, they werent saying Mrs As name was her 
mother in laws. While I appreciate Equifaxs clarification, I cant see from Equifaxs contact 
notes that they responded to Mrs As concerns to explain this when she raised them on 31 
July 2022. I think the lack of clarification and explanation caused further distress to Mrs A.Mrs A says she doesnt know whether her mother in law saw Mrs As financial information 
appearing on her credit file. Mrs A says she doesnt wish to raise it with her mother in law 
and that at the time this happened, she felt her mother in law was acting differently towards 
her. As a result, Mrs A was reluctant to have any extended contact with her mother in law in 
case she raised things with Mrs A. Mrs A says her mother in law made a comment to Mrs A 
acknowledging how hard things are financially for Mrs A but Mrs A was too worried to 
continue the conversation further, as she says she simply couldnt face having the 
conversation about her finances. While I cant hold Equifax responsible for Mrs As mother in 
law acting differently towards her, I can understand that had this mistake not happened, it's 
unlikely Mrs A would have had these concerns.
Equifax acknowledged a notice of disassociation was initially loaded in June 2022 but then 
wasnt checked, so had to be loaded again two months later in August 2022, which caused a 
delay in the information being removed. So, from what Equifax have said, there seemed to 
be an issue with loading the notice of dissociation the first time in June 2022. Equifax have 
also said Mrs As mother in law didnt obtain a credit report from them and that Mrs As 
details werent shared with her mother in law  they provided a screenshot to show this. But 
it seems that there was a period of two months where Mrs As mother in laws financial 
information was still appearing on Mrs As credit file which meant Equifax had to reload the 
notice of disassociation.  So while I appreciate Equifax have since said Mrs As mother in 
law didnt obtain a copy of her credit report, Mrs A still had to wait two months for the 
information to be removed from her credit file while being very concerned and worried.
Because Mrs A had her mother in laws information appearing on her credit file, this then 
made information appear about her father in law as he was showing as a financial 
connection. Understandably, this caused further upset to Mrs A as she wasnt expecting to 
see her father in laws information on her credit file.
So, having considered all of the stress and upset caused to Mrs A I dont think the £110 
compensation Equifax offered is enough. As I say, while I appreciate Equifax were certain 
that Mrs As mother in law didnt obtain a credit report with them and also gave reassurances 
Mrs As financial information wasnt shared with her mother in law, I think the distress and 
worry caused to Mrs A has been quite clear here. So, I agree with our Investigator in that I 
think Equifax should pay Mrs A £300 compensation in total.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Equifax to pay Mrs A £300 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman