DRN-4101351
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
as the result of a scam. In making his complaint Mr J is represented, but for ease Ill refer to 
Mr J throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mr J has said he and his wife were regular users of a company who sold jewellery and 
offered bureau de change and pawn broking services. The director of the company, who Ill 
refer to as A, approached Mr J and offered him the opportunity to buy a watch, which A told 
Mr J he could then sell on for a profit. Believing everything to be genuine Mr J agreed to buy 
the watch but has said that A insisted the payment be made in cash. Due to it being a 
weekend, Mr J wasnt able to withdraw that much cash, so A suggested to Mr J that he make 
a bank transfer to a friend, who would then, in turn, give A the cash.
Mr J agreed and, on 5 October 2019, made a payment for £10,000 to the bank details A 
provided. But Mr J has said the watch never materialised, with A blaming Covid for the 
delays. Mr J added that A approached him about further opportunities, but he did not take 
them up. The company that A was a director of then closed down and the company went into 
liquidation and I understand that A has since passed away.
Mr J raised the matter with HSBC, who looked into his concerns. It responded to Mr J not 
upholding his complaint, in summary this was because it didnt identify there had been any 
error made by the bank.
Mr J then brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Mr J and A. In summary, she didnt consider she had enough evidence to suggest 
the seller set out to defraud Mr J, more so Mr J had entered into a business relationship that 
went wrong, with the seller then going into voluntary liquidation, with Mr J being named as a 
creditor.
Mr J disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary he said he was not being treated as 
a creditor, as the money was not officially put through the sellers business and this was a 
private transaction. He added the list of creditors (within the voluntary liquidation 
documentation) was a list of people that had been defrauded. Mr J maintained that he had 
fallen victim to a scam and that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) applied 
to his case, as he said the seller had got him to send money to a third party for a fake 
investment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr J, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But not all cases where individuals have 
lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which HSBC has signed up to and was in force at 
the time Mr J made this payment. And outside of the Code, HSBC also has wider obligations 
to fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments, for example it doesnt cover civil disputes. It says;
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payment Mr J made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Mr J disagrees. He feels A has scammed 
him.
In order to conclude that the payment Mr J made was part of a scam, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that A was not legitimate and had set out to 
defraud Mr J. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude that. Its 
clear the agreement Mr J entered into with A didnt go as Mr J expected it to and I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly about what has happened. But having 
considered everything provided by both Mr J and HSBC, Im not persuaded, from what Ive 
seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say A set out with the intention to defraud Mr J.
This means I dont think HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mr J under the CRM Code or 
because of any wider obligation it has to protect Mr J. I say that as, on balance, there are a 
number of factors, in the circumstances of this case, that arent typical of this being a scam;
- Mr J continued to communicate with A after the disputed transaction was made. I can 
see on Mr Js bank statements, that in January 2020 there are transactions for 
£6,000 to and from As company  for what appears to be the purchase of and then 
the refund for a watch. As well as this, almost a year after the disputed transaction, 
Mr J and A entered into a loan agreement. This is not typically the case with 
fraudsters, who more often than not, once in receipt of a victims money, will no 
longer be contactable (let alone actually make a refund of such a large value).
- Mr J has said this was a personal transaction, as the payment wasnt made through 
As company. Hes added that the list of creditors detailed within the voluntary 
liquidation documentation, was a list of people that had been defrauded. But I havent 
seen any evidence to fairly support this argument or to substantiate that there were 
other victims, as Mr J claims. Mr J requested to be removed from the list of creditors, 
as he said the payment was made in a personal capacity, rather than through As 
business. But considering Mr J was on the creditors list in the first place, it suggests 
to me that A recognised Mr J as somebody who he/his company owed money to. 
With this in mind, it doesnt seem to be the case that A didnt intend for Mr J to 
potentially receive his money back (albeit here by means of the liquidation process).
- Its not apparent, from what Ive seen, that Mr J was put under pressure to go ahead 
with the purchase. Which is often the case with scams such as this. Rather, Mr J was 
interested in the proposal put to him, by somebody whose company Mr J has said he 
was a regular user of before this transaction took place.
- I think its relevant here, albeit that Mr J sees this as a personal payment, that A was 
in the business of retailing jewellery. And A proactively engaged liquidators when his 
company seemingly fell into difficultly, having been a registered and trading company 
since 2008. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who Im persuaded would, 
to avoid detection, be unlikely to engage in a legal process, such as instructing 
insolvency practitioners, when they have set out with the intent to defraud.
- I also note that before A sadly passed away, there doesnt appear to have been any 
indication that criminal charges have been brought against him (nor against any other 
directors of the company that A was a director of).
Ive thought carefully about the payment here being made to a third party, seemingly to 
enable the transaction to ultimately be made in cash. There may well have been some sharp 
practice in terms of how A has requested this payment to be made. But this doesnt 
automatically mean that he was willingly and intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately 
setting out to scam Mr J at the time. It is sometimes the case that people set out with a 
genuine belief that they can provide, what they promise, but that something goes wrong.
Questionable trading practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be 
that A acted dishonestly and deceitfully, by taking payments from Mr J in circumstances 
where he had no intention of fulfilling his side of the bargain. I dont doubt that some of what 
happened here may have smacked of bad practice. But I have to consider this, alongside all 
of the other factors that Ive mentioned above. After taking everything into careful consideration, I cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for 
fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of A failing to honour an agreement by not providing 
the goods.
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, A set 
out with the intent to defraud Mr J. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt 
apply and I cant ask HSBC to refund the money Mr J has lost.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr J. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr J has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman