DRN-4322186
The complaint
Mr W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) offer to settle his claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws phone was damaged, so he made a claim to Aviva under his policy. Aviva werent 
able to source a replacement phone, so they offered a cash settlement of £1,029, which 
represented the cost of a refurbished phone. Mr W asked for the claim to be cancelled as he 
wanted a new phone. Mr W then made another claim and, as Aviva still werent able to 
source a replacement phone, they again offered a cash settlement  but this time they 
offered £901. Mr W complained about the settlement offer being less than what was 
originally offered. Aviva responded and explained, under the terms and conditions of the 
policy, they offer a cash settlement if theyre unable to find a suitable replacement. Aviva 
said, theyd reviewed the amount Mr W was offered and it was based on the current market 
value of Mr Ws phone and was a sufficient amount to purchase a phone of the same make 
and model. Aviva said they acknowledge Mr W was offered a higher amount when he made 
the first claim, but this claim was cancelled. They said the later offer reflects the current 
market value of Mr Ws phone. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She thought Aviva hadnt treated Mr W unfairly 
in relation to the claim settlement. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Mr W says the first cash settlement offer was based on a refurbished phone from the 
manufacturer, but the second cash settlement offer was based on the selling price on a 
website Mr W has never heard of, and he doesnt feel comfortable buying from this website. 
Mr W says the phone is still showing as being worth £1,029 from the manufacturer and he 
queries whether Aviva will reinstate this offer. Mr W says he places more trust in a 
refurbished phone from the manufacturer rather than from a website which has received 
negative reviews from customers. 
My starting point is Mr Ws mobile phone insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and describes the steps Aviva will take when handling a claim. The policy 
says Aviva will replace a phone if its damaged and the replacement phone they provide are 
refurbished models. The policy booklet then refers to replacement phones and says, Well 
always try to provide you with the same make and model of phoneIn the unlikely event 
that we are unable to source a suitable replacement, we may at our sole discretion, make a 
settlement in vouchers or cashbased upon the price you paid or the current retail value of 
the phone, whichever is less. 
Aviva have provided claim notes which show Mr W first made a claim in March 2023 and 
was offered a cash settlement of £1,029 as Aviva couldnt source a replacement. Aviva 
explained this offer was based on the manufacturers refurbished model. The notes say     
Mr W explained he didnt wish to continue with the claim as he wasnt happy with the cash 
settlement value, and it being based off the value of a refurbished phone. Mr W then called 
again a couple of months later to reinstate his claim. Mr W then chose the replacement 
option. Aviva, again, werent able to source a replacement phone so they offered a cash 
settlement  but this time the amount was £901. Mr W wasnt happy with the settlement 
amount and cancelled his claim. Aviva say the market value for Mr Ws phone had changed 
since the previous offer, so the cash settlement had been reduced to reflect this. 
I understand Mr W is concerned about Avivas original cash settlement  and this being 
based on a refurbished replacement phone. The policy terms and conditions do say the 
replacement phones are refurbished models which come with a warranty, and the 
refurbished stock will be in an as new condition. The terms and conditions go further to say, 
in the event Aviva arent able to source a replacement phone, they will offer a cash 
settlement based on the current retail value of the phone. So, from the information Ive seen, 
I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly. The information shows theyve acted in line with the 
terms and conditions by basing the settlement amount on a refurbished phone. I note Mr W 
was concerned about this, but the phones come with a warranty which matches, either the 
period of time a customer had left on their original phones manufacturers warranty or 12 
months, whichever is greater. So, even though I cant say its unfair for Aviva to offer a 
refurbished phone, there is the additional benefit of a warranty to provide reassurance to a 
customer. 
Ive then looked at the cash settlement amount. Aviva have provided information showing 
how they arrived at their cash settlement of £1,029 and £901. The information shows the 
original offer was based on the manufacturers refurbished phone and shows this being 
available to buy for £1,029. The second offer is based on a website selling the phone. So, 
Im satisfied Aviva have, in line with the terms and conditions, based their settlement offer on 
the retail value of the phone. I acknowledge the settlement has been reduced between the 
two claims, but its not unreasonable to expect prices to fluctuate over time. I do understand 
there was only a period of around two months between the claims, but the information 
shows, on both occasions, Aviva based their settlement offer on the retail value. So I cant 
say theyve acted unfairly if the offer of £901  while lower than the previous offer  reflects 
the retail value of the phone at the time of the second claim. 
I can see Mr W has provided evidence which shows the refurbished phone is still being 
advertised for £1,029 on the manufacturers website. Mr W has also raised concerns about 
the website offering the phone for £901  and he has provided screenshots showing reviews 
from customers. Aviva say the policy makes no guarantee where the phone may be 
purchased from and, when Mr W first claimed, the refurbished phone from the manufacturer 
was the only place to source the phone within a reasonable timescale. I can see that 
changed at the time of the second claim and a phone was being advertised, with a lower 
retail value, from an alternative seller. 
I do understand Mr W is frustrated by the offer being lowered, but the policy terms and 
conditions dont set out a requirement for Aviva to only base the retail value off the 
manufacturers website. The policy allows for there to be flexibility when searching the 
market in order to establish a retail price  and thats what Aviva have done here. Its not 
unusual or uncommon for the price to go down over time  so I cant say Aviva have acted 
unreasonably here as theyve followed the terms and conditions, as well as a fair approach, 
in searching the market to arrive at a settlement offer. I wish to reassure Mr W Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman