DRN-1866212
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs C have brought this complaint on behalf of their late fathers estate. Mr W and 
Mrs C are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed their late father, 
(who Ill refer to as Mr W1) to withdraw £38,000 in cash from his bank accounts within a 
year, without establishing why the withdrawals were being made or considering Mr W1s 
circumstances.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill give a summary of whats happened so far, and then Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
Throughout 2018 Mr W1 made several large cash withdrawals from two of his NatWest 
accounts. The amounts in question ranged from £1,000 to £8,000 and were spaced 
throughout the year. The withdrawals were made in one of NatWests branches.
Mr W and Mrs C complain that NatWest shouldnt have allowed Mr W1 to make such large 
withdrawals so often, without questioning the purpose of the withdrawals, or flagging them 
with a family member or relevant authority. Theyve also explained that Mr W1 was in his 
nineties, was disabled, and wasnt able to go about his life without assistance. They say that 
he was left in a vulnerable position by being able to carry large sums of cash. They also 
have no trace of what Mr W1 used the money for. 
 Mr W and Mrs C believe that NatWest has shown a lack of duty of care towards Mr W1. 
They say NatWest failed to spot his vulnerability and this has led to him losing his life 
savings. Theyve also explained that Mr W1 was widowed at the end of 2017 and he was 
further put in a vulnerable position as he struggled to overcome the loss of his wife. 
To put things right Mr W and Mrs C want NatWest to return the £38,000 to Mr W1s estate.
NatWest hasnt got information available for all of the transactions, given the time that has 
passed since they happened. But it says that it followed its processes for the withdrawals Mr 
W1 made, by asking Mr W1 the purpose of the withdrawals. It also explained that Mr W1 
gave reasons that its cashiers were satisfied with, and the withdrawals went ahead on that 
basis.
Our investigator looked at the case and didnt think it should be upheld. Whilst she 
appreciated the distress the situation had caused, she didnt think that NatWest had acted 
unfairly by allowing Mr W1 to withdraw his own money. 
Mr W and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. So as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining that Ive thought very carefully about everything that Mr W and 
Mrs C have said. I can certainly understand how distressing this situation has been for them, 
especially as it surrounds the already difficult scenario of losing their father. But having done 
so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Banks have some responsibility to look out for their customers  particularly those that are 
vulnerable. And with this in mind, NatWest has provided information on the processes it 
carries out with certain transactions  and what its checks involve. But due to the time that 
has passed it hasnt been able to provide much information about the individual transactions 
themselves. In any case Ive considered the information I do have about some of the 
transactions, bearing in mind the overall circumstances of the complaint. 
At this stage its important to note that its not in dispute as to whether Mr W1 authorised and 
made the withdrawals himself. So Ive focussed my thoughts on whether NatWest acted 
responsibly by allowing him to make the withdrawals  rather than whether the funds were 
fraudulently withdrawn.
There are several ways for a customer to withdraw cash over the counter from their NatWest 
account. These ways include by cashing a cheque, or by using their debit card authorised 
with chip and PIN. NatWest has provided information on what process it expects its staff to 
follow in relation to the different transaction types and amounts. Whilst it wouldnt be right for 
me to fully disclose NatWests processes in relation to this, Ive seen and considered them 
carefully for each transaction. I should note that these requirements are waived for both 
withdrawal methods if the customer is known to a member of staff in the branch at the time.  
 
Although NatWest hasnt been able to provide information on many of the transactions, it 
has provided some. And I think thats reasonable, as I wouldnt expect a business to hold 
records indefinitely  or indeed for longer than it needs to. NatWest has provided its internal 
guidance on how long it retains internal records for. This guidance shows that paperwork 
related to in-branch transactions, such as withdrawal slips, need to be retained for one year. 
As its been over a year since the transactions took place, I cant hold NatWest at fault for 
being unable to provide much information about them. 
Ive reviewed the information that NatWest has provided about the transactions in question. 
Throughout 2018 there were 10 large transactions, which varied in size between £1,000 and 
£8,000. They were made using different methods  some by debit card and some by 
cheque. And whilst theres not much available information about all of the transactions, I 
note that on two occasions Mr W1 said he was withdrawing the funds for a holiday, and on 
one occasion he told NatWest the funds were to contribute towards the wedding of one of 
one of his grandchildren. 
As Ive already said, for some transactions NatWest staff are required to carry out additional 
checks. These checks include establishing the reason for the transaction being made. 
Although I havent seen what information was recorded following these checks for every 
transaction, Im satisfied that the checks were most likely done where applicable. From the 
information I have seen, that Ive referred to above, Im satisfied that NatWest followed its 
processes in line with the individual transactions. I say this because information on the 
reasons for the withdrawals would otherwise be unavailable.  
NatWest has provided a statement from the manager of the branch that Mr W1 made all of 
the withdrawals at. The manager has confirmed that Mr W1 was known to several of the staff 
members in the branch. So although I dont know which staff member served Mr W1 on each 
occasion, I think its likely that for at least some of the withdrawals he was either served by, or his transactions were verified by, someone that knew him. This means that the cashier 
wouldnt have been required to follow the full process of completing additional checks, such 
as establishing the reason for the transaction. 
NatWest has also provided its guidance on Due Diligence  the principles behind making 
sure customers are not at risk of exploitation or scams  by paying attention to the details of 
the transactions being made. Id expect a bank to always consider this, even if the customer 
theyre serving is well-known, and theres no doubt about their identity. 
The guidance itself places a fair amount of emphasis on the judgement of the staff members 
carrying out the transaction. It makes reference to the type and frequency of transactions, 
the reasons supplied by customers, amongst other things. 
As Ive already explained, theres limited information about some of the withdrawals that Mr 
W1 made, given the time that has passed since they happened. But from the evidence that 
NatWest has been able to provide, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that its staff 
were adequately aware of the correct procedures to follow. The evidence Ive seen suggests 
that the staff followed the need to establish the reasons for certain transactions. And so I 
think its more likely than not that they did the same for the other transactions, even though 
theres unfortunately no evidence of that now. 
Having considered these points, Im satisfied that NatWest applied a diligent approach when 
carrying out the transactions for Mr W1. NatWest has been able to show that it noted the 
reasons for the large transactions on some of the occasions. I cant comment on the way 
each staff member chose to exercise their judgement, and I do fully accept that Mr W and 
Mrs C dont know where Mr W1 spent the money he withdrew, or whether the reasons Mr 
W1 gave were genuine. But I dont think that means NatWest did something wrong. 
I also havent been made aware of any other reason that Mr W1 shouldnt have been 
allowed to withdraw and use this money. I do acknowledge that Mr W and Mrs C have given 
some information on Mr W1s poor health, but it would be unfair for me to conclude that 
based on this alone, Mr W1 wasnt able to make his own decisions about his finances or 
spend his money how he chose to. Ive also seen that Mr W and Mrs C have emphasised 
that Mr W1s age made him vulnerable. And I can certainly understand why theyve said this. 
But thinking about this in the context of a banking transaction, it would be unfair for a bank to 
apply a limit to customers being able to withdraw their money based on their age or physical 
ability, as its ultimately the responsibility of the account holder to make that decision.
Its certainly difficult for me to comment on how the staff members felt and why they applied 
their judgement in the way theyd have been expected to in this case. But I need to be 
satisfied that on each occasion, NatWests staff at least considered the reasons for Mr W1s 
cash withdrawals. And as Ive seen evidence that NatWest did follow its processes on the 
occasions where theres still information available, Im satisfied that it most likely did what it 
needed to on the other occasions too.
I want to reassure Mr W and Mrs C that Ive thought very carefully about whats happened 
here. I know its a very difficult situation and I can only apologise for the frustration that 
theyre likely to feel as a result of what Ive said. But I also have to be mindful that customers 
should be allowed to access the money in their account when they want it, unless the bank 
has a valid reason not to allow this. And without anything more to suggest that NatWest 
shouldve taken further action, I havent concluded that NatWest acted irresponsibly in 
allowing Mr W1 to withdraw large amounts of cash from his account as frequently as he did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W and Mrs C but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Cs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman