DRN-1542183
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited sent her contradictory information about a 
debt.
What happened
Mrs F says that she received a letter from PRA in October 2019. She says the letter advised 
her that it had purchased a debt that was in her name. She said the letter said she owed 
nearly £500. She said this came as a shock to her as the debt had been written off.
She says the letter also said that she didn't owe any money. She said she called PRA to 
question this, and the call handler was rude to her. She said that after she complained, PRA 
apologised because it said the letter was confusing. She said it wasn't confusing, but wrong 
as she didn't have any outstanding debt.
She said she found this very upsetting, because she thought her financial troubles were 
behind her when she obtained a debt relief order (DRO).
PRA says that it sent her the letter as it was legally obliged to tell her that it was now the new 
owner of the debt. It said the letter also explained it was now responsible for her data, and 
the rights and responsibilities of reporting the account to the Credit Reference
Agencies. It said the letter had confused Mrs F because it included a balance. It said it was 
sorry for the upset this caused, and offered £50 for this.
Mrs F didn't accept this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into this and didn't uphold her complaint. She appreciated the upset the letter had 
caused Mrs F, but she said that PRA's response to her complaint was fair and reasonable.
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I'm not upholding this complaint, for the 
same reasons as our investigator.
Mrs F's main complaint is regarding the contents of the letter she received. The letter 
included a section with the heading "what you owe us". PRA accepts that this section was 
completed with the amount of the old debt. It also said it included a second copy of the letter 
in the same envelope, and this version showed that she didn't owe anything to PRA. Mrs F  
says she only received the version of the letter with the information that she did owe money - 
I hope Mrs F has now been provided with the other version of the letter which shows she 
doesn't owe any of the debt.
I've looked carefully at the letter Mrs F received. I appreciate she found it upsetting, because 
she'd rightly believed she didn't owe any money after her DRO ended,  but I'm satisfied there was sufficient information in the letter to allay her fears. The main heading of the letter says 
in block capitals "this is not a payment demand". And I'm also satisfied it made clear to Mrs F 
she didn't need to take any action as it said:
"Your existing arrangements with your creditors are not affected by this change and 
we will be in touch with your insolvency practitioner directly to let them know of this 
change. There is no need to take any action upon receipt of this letter".
So, whilst I accept the letter stated an outstanding balance, I'm satisfied the information and 
instructions in the letter were sufficiently clear and prominent to assure her she didn't need 
to take any action. And if she was unsure, she was pointed towards a frequently asked 
questions page, and invited to call if she wanted to do so.
Mrs F also asks why PRA said it was legally required to provide the information. She asked 
this because none of her other creditors had written to her in this way. As a regulated 
business, PRA has to follow the rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority's handbook, 
which can be found on the FCA's website. The rule explaining what a business must do 
when it purchases a debt is set out in CONC 6.5. It requires businesses to issue a "Notice of 
Assignment" to inform the customer it's the new owner of the debt.
It's still required to notify the customer even where the debt has been written off following a 
DRO. An explanation of how a DRO works can be found on the website of the Citizens 
Advice Bureau. It confirms that creditors can contact customers after a DRO ends to give 
information about the account, and to follow rules that require it to send certain information.
So I'm satisfied that PRA was required to send the information it did to Mrs F.
I appreciate this was an upsetting experience for Mrs F, especially after she'd taken steps to 
clear her debts through the DRO. But I'm satisfied that PRA acted fairly in issuing a notice of 
assignment to Mrs F. I'm also satisfied that it made a reasonable offer of £50 for the upset 
caused to her. It's up to Mrs F to decide whether or not she wants to accept that offer, but I 
won't be asking PRA to do anything more.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman