DRN-3865901
The complaint
Mr A complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly accepted him as at fault for a motor insurance 
claim. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr As taxi was involved in an incident with a third-partys vehicle. His car 
wasnt damaged. But the third party claimed for damage to their vehicle against his Allianz 
taxi insurance policy. Mr As unhappy Allianz settled the claim by accepting him to be at 
fault. This has affected his insurance premiums. Hes also disappointed with how Allianz 
handled the claim in general  including it failing to inspect his car and provide him with 
regular updates.
Mr A complained to Allianz. When responding it accepted it hadnt done enough to update 
him and apologised for failing to arrange an inspection of his vehicle. It paid him £350 
compensation in recognition. It later said it had used its right under the policy terms to settle 
the claim as it saw fit. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied so came to this service. Our investigator was of the opinion Allianzs 
decision to accept him as being at fault was fair and reasonable. Mr A didnt accept that 
assessment. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts.
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair
and reasonable decision. Mr As policy terms allow Allianz to defend or settle any
claim on his behalf. That means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy
allows it to do so. I can consider if its decision to do so was reasonable. 
I accept its possible Mr A wasnt at fault. But having considered everything, Allianz acted in 
line with the policy terms. And I cant say its decision to accept liability was unfair or 
unreasonable.
Allianzs provided a reasonable explanation for why it didnt inspect Mr As car initially. It felt 
it was unnecessary as he said he could provide dashcam footage of the incident. It turned 
out that he was unable to provide viewable footage. By that time the pandemic was making 
inspections difficult. And Allianz had then taken a statement from Mr A. 
Based on his account, and the other available evidence, Allianzs legal panel advised if the 
claim went to court it was unlikely a judge would rule in Mr As favour. So it decided to settle 
the third-party claim. Having considered everything provided I cant say thats an 
unreasonable or unfair position for it to have taken. So I wont be requiring Allianz to do 
anything differently in regard to the outcome of the claim.     
Mr A says hes now able to provide this service with viewable dashcam footage, although he 
failed to do so by the agreed deadline. In any event Im considering how Allianz handled the 
claim when he was unable to provide the footage. So even if it did support his position that 
he wasnt at fault it would be unlikely to change the outcome of this complaint  because it 
wasnt available to Allianz at the relevant time. 
I accept its possible Allianz could have handled the claim a bit better in a few regards. 
However, Im, satisfied the compensation its already paid Mr A is enough to recognise the 
impact of any its mistakes. So I wont be requiring it to pay him any additional compensation 
or to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman