DRN-3412183
The complaint
Ms C, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief loan table of the approved loans for Ms C.
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 19/05/2016 20/12/2016 33 £200.00 £10.00
2 20/12/2016 06/06/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
3 06/06/2017 12/12/2017 33 £400.00 £20.00
4 12/12/2017 24/04/2018 33 £250.00 £12.50
5 24/04/2018 28/03/2019 33 £400.00 £20.00
6 30/08/2018 26/10/2021 52 £400.00 £34.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint after it had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and thought that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld in relation to 
Loans 4 to 6. 
Morses disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account several different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ms C has not responded to the adjudicators view and so I am unclear as to her opinion on 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator did not think that Morses had done anything wrong for loans 1 to 3. And 
having reviewed them, I have evidence from Morses to indicate that Ms C had enough 
disposable income to cover the repayment amounts for these loans. 
I have reviewed the application form (handwritten) for loan 1 which indicates that she had 
told Morses she had £145 a week disposable income. And I have received a copy of the 
credit search results Morses obtained in May 2016. That set of results, on the face of them, 
they show little. I doubt that Morses would have been placed on alert that Ms C was likely 
not able to repay loan 1. 
As for loans 2 and 3, it would still have been proportionate in that early stage of the lending 
relationship for Morses to have relied on the information Ms C had told them. I have seen the 
spreadsheet which recorded her income (from benefits) and her expenditure and loans 2 
and 3 looked to have been affordable. I know that Ms C is submitting they were not 
affordable but she has sent no additional information about her finances at the time and so 
I cannot review what I do not have.
As for the other three loans, our adjudicator upheld them and I have decided to uphold the 
complaint in relation to loans 4 to 6. Loan 4 
I have reviewed all that Morses has said and I appreciate its points. I have seen from the 
records I have been given that for loans 1, 2 and 3 Ms C had said to Morses she was paying 
down another loan (£15 a week and £5 a week), then I think that by loan 4 more ought to 
have been done. Loan 4 was used to repay loan 3 which showed a repeat behaviour for her. 
And by the time she applied for loan 4 Ms C had been in debt with Morses for around 19 
months. 
Morses says that it carried out further checks but I do not consider reviewing her income 
and any available evidence was enough before approving the fourth loan when Ms C had 
been in debt to Morses for around 19 months. Her income was from benefits and I have 
seen from the repayment records that she had rolled her previous debt into the new loans 
each time. 
The credit search Morses has sent to us was carried it out in May 2016 was out of date by 
the time that Ms C applied to it for loan 4 in December 2017. They did not show that Ms C 
had been paying down another loan as she had told Morses she was doing. And I obtained 
that information from the handwritten application for loan 1 in May 2016. Ms C had repeated 
the fact that she had other loans to pay off in the applications for loans 2 and 3 as well. 
Morses has said it only carried out a credit search at loan 1 and in my view there was 
nothing to prevent Morses from checking this point about the other loan or loans she said 
she was paying off by doing a further credit search or asking her about them. 
And so, I looked for information that Morses may have discovered if it had carried out the 
further checks for loan 4. 
I know from our own records that Ms C had obtained other loans with another home credit 
provider. She had been borrowing from the other lender since 2013 and in May 2014 had 
obtained two loans from it in quick succession in May and June 2014, but these were not 
paid off until December 2019. They ought to have been a 41 week loan and a 32 week loan 
(respectively) at £10 a week each (£20 combined) and so they ought to have been repaid 
around March or April 2015. So, when Ms C was asking Morses for its loan 4 in 
December 2017, Ms C was already in arrears on the other lenders two loans by two and a 
half years.  
So, I think that better checks before approving loan 4 would likely have revealed this about 
Ms C and her other loan commitments which, in my view, likely would have led Morses not 
to lend to Ms C for loan 4. Despite this it did lend to her. 
I uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 4. 
Loans 5 and 6
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 and 6 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Ms C, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say this because:
at this point she had been indebted to Morses for almost two years.  
Ms Cs first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for £400. So, the amount Ms C was 
borrowing had doubled as well as her being indebted to Morses for a significant time. 
at this point Morses ought to have known that Ms C was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates her problems may have been 
worsening.  
so, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Ms Cs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
from loan 5 onwards Ms C was provided with a new loan a very short time after she 
settled her previous loan. 
Ms C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out over two years after Ms Cs first and loan 6 was applied for when she still 
owed Morses a significant amount of money on Loan 5. And loan 6 was for a larger 
amount than loan 1. Ms C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Ms C lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 ( as previously explained) 
together with loans 5 and 6 and Morses should put things right.
Other points raised by Morses 
Morses has quoted a customer satisfaction note it had in which Ms C had told her Morses 
representative she was happy with everything. But that was just before loan 6 was approved 
and I do not attach much weight to a comment where the customer is applying for more 
cash. So, it does not persuade me that Ms Cs complaint ought not to be upheld.
Morses is right that she was not under an obligation to settle her loans early, and she could 
have closed her loans at the end of a loan term, but she did not. And its likely she was reliant 
on the money by the time she was applying for loans 5 and 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms C from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms C in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms C loans 4 to 6.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D) For loan 4, Morses should amend Ms Cs credit file to remove adverse payment 
information. 
The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Cs credit file. 
If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman