DRN-4155331
The complaint
Miss D has complained about her car insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
regarding a claim she made after being involved in an accident with another car.
Watford uses another company to handle its claims on its behalf. Watford is liable for the 
actions of the other company. Ill only refer to Watford in this decision.
What happened
Miss D was leaving a friends home in August 2021. As she left she had to manoeuvrer out 
of her parked position. She and another car collided. Miss D felt the other driver had been 
speeding. Watford handled the claim on Miss Ds behalf putting forward her position that she 
had not been at fault for the accident. But it also told her it may have to settle the claim as 
one of split liability. Miss D wasnt happy about that and Watford continued to review the 
claim. In May 2022 Watford confirmed it had settled the claim, without prejudice, on the 
basis of Miss D being 50% at fault. It refunded her £177.50, half of the policy excess.
Miss D complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She thought Watford had acted 
unfairly and unreasonably settling the claim as it had. Miss D said she felt a fair outcome 
would be for the claim to show as non-fault on her part so she wouldnt incur extra costs 
over the coming years. She also noted the time shed taken to deal with matters.
Our Investigator felt Watford hadnt investigated the claim very well. So he felt Watford 
should amend the record of the claim on the industry database. He also felt Watford hadnt 
communicated well with Miss D, so felt it should pay £150 compensation.
Watford agreed. Miss D did not. She was pleased with the complaint being upheld  but felt 
that, that being the case, Watford should also give her a pro-rated policy refund and return 
the remainder of her excess. She also felt more compensation should be paid. The 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
I took a different view to our Investigator. I felt Watford should still pay Miss D some 
compensation, with a slightly higher award of £250 being fair and reasonable. But I didnt 
think Watford had failed Miss D in the claim decision it reached  so I wasnt minded to 
require it to amend the industry database or make any further payment to Miss D regarding 
any costs shes incurred or is worried she will incur. So I issued a provisional decision, my 
findings of which were:
Claim decision
Watford issued a final response to Miss D on 14 October 2021. At that time it had already 
been thinking about settling this on a split liability basis. It was only more than six-months 
later though that it finalised its view on the complaint outcome and Miss D complained to this 
service. So Ive looked at what happened and what was decided following the October letter. 
Miss D clearly feels that this accident was not her fault. But considering Watfords file from 
October 2021 it seems the other driver was of a similar view  that they were not at fault. At 
that time Watford was aware that a housemate of the friend Miss D had been visiting had 
seen the accident and it was waiting for their statement. I think its fair to say that Watfords 
view was that whilst it accepted Miss Ds belief  it wasnt persuaded that was a position that 
could be relied upon in court, but that a strong witness statement might give it some chance 
of a better outcome (than 50%) for Miss D. 
I think that was a reasonable position for Watford to take. In explaining my view in this 
respect, its useful to explain that a basic premise that often runs through accident liability 
issues is that a driver embarking on a manoeuvre bears the greatest responsibility for 
ensuring the road is clear. And it is also my understanding that speed, on the part of the 
other driver, is not always considered by the courts as an entirely mitigating factor for the 
liability of the manoeuvring driver.
Here I can see that the other drivers view was that Miss D, whilst starting to manoeuvre out 
of her parking space, had encroached on to their side of the road where they were already 
established in moving along it. But Watford, especially bearing in mind how strongly Miss D 
felt about this, wanted to see the witness statement. I can understand why  if the witness 
evidence suggested the other driver was wrong in some way  that the collision had not 
occurred on the other drivers side of the road, or that Miss D was well established in her 
manoeuvre when the other car came upon her, for example  then that might have changed 
things. It might have been persuasive evidence which Watford could have used to negotiate 
a better settlement. But, its fair to say though that, when the witness statement was 
received, Watfords view was that it didnt help support Miss Ds position. And I can see that 
it was following receipt and consideration of this evidence that Watford concluded it couldnt 
reasonably continue to challenge liability on Miss Ds behalf, and it subsequently settled the 
claims on the basis of Miss D being 50% liable. 
The claim was settled that is, on a without prejudice basis. Which means that Miss D would 
be free to take her own action against the other party in court if she wished to.
I know Miss D feels strongly that the other driver was speeding. But as I said above, speed 
on the part of the other driver, wouldnt necessarily mean she had no liability at all for the 
accident. I can understand that shed have liked Watford to have analysed the marks left at 
the scene and taken into account other detail too, which she thinks would have shown the 
other driver was moving too fast. But I cant reasonably expect an insurer to carry out 
possibly expensive and time consuming investigations which, regardless of any conclusions 
found, arent likely to materially influence the claims outcome.  
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Miss D, I think, overall, that 
Watfords claim decision, that Miss D was in part at fault for the accident, was a fair and 
reasonable one. 
Losses
I recognise that having a fault claim on her history will cause some difficulty, and possibly 
costs for Miss D in future  the industry database will show a fault claim, shell have lost her 
no-claims bonus, and wont have all her excess refunded. Miss D has also mentioned being 
entitled to a pro-rata refund. But as Im satisfied that Watfords decision was fair and 
reasonable, Ive no grounds on which to require it to make amends for any of these.
The industry database is meant to accurately reflect claims which have occurred. So (and 
despite Watfords agreement to our Investigators view) I could only fairly and reasonably 
require Watford to amend it, if I felt that, but for any error by it, the claim would most likely 
have been settled as one of non-fault against Miss D. That wasnt the case here. So it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to maintain the award requiring Watford to amend the 
database.I appreciate that losing her no-claims bonus, along with having a fault claim on her record, is 
likely to affect Miss Ds premiums in the next few years. But that, along with her not being 
reimbursed all of her excess, is a loss which flows reasonably from the unfortunate 
circumstance of being involved in an accident, resulting in a claim on the policy, which is 
fairly and reasonably settled on a fault basis. 
Miss D has said she thinks Watford should give her a pro-rata refund of her policy premium 
as the policy ended early following the accident. Shes referenced policy wording which says 
that pro-rata refunds will be given in the event of policy cancellations where there is no claim 
on the policy. She says that as she was not at fault for this accident it cant fairly be said that 
she made a claim on the policy. Miss D did make a claim on her policy for this accident. And 
Ive set out my view above about Watfords decision on Miss Ds liability. But Id also add 
here that whilst Miss D has referenced the general cancellation terms in the policy  the 
policy also explains that in the event of a total loss settlement the full annual premium 
becomes payable. And Miss Ds claim was settled by Watford as one of total loss. 
How the claim was handled
I think this is where Watford failed Miss D. I think it could have been clearer with her as to 
what would happen depending upon what the witness statement showed. I also note that 
whilst it received that in October, and seemingly finalised its view on the complaint outcome 
around that time, by Christmas it noted it hadnt started action to recover 50% of its outlay. 
And despite contact from Miss D during that time it didnt confirm its claim outcome decision 
with her in writing until May 2022, with her excess reimbursement following.
I note how strongly Miss D feels about this claim. And also that Watford knew this too. Im 
also aware that Miss D was under the impression, following their contact in October 2021, 
that Watford was reviewing its initial intention to deal with the claim on a split liability basis. 
So I think it was particularly upsetting for Miss D to learn, many months later that the position 
had not changed. 
I think, if Watford had managed this better, much of the upset Miss D has felt could have 
been avoided. She also wouldnt have needed to contact it as much as she did. Overall 
I think £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. To be clear this is in respect of upset 
which has occurred after Watfords final response letter of 14 October 2021.
Watford said it had nothing to add. Miss D said she was disappointed  that she thought 
I had decided to penalise her because she had disagreed with the redress suggested by our 
Investigator. It must just be, she said, that I wanted to teach her a lesson. She asked what 
was the point of our Investigator issuing findings if the Ombudsman just ignored them. She 
didnt think shed been treated fairly. Miss D said she knows the other party was speeding  
that if they had not been, then there would not have been an accident and the damage 
showed that she was already two-thirds of the way through her manoeuvrer when they drove 
into her. Miss D said Watford and this service had failed to investigate properly, with it being 
wholly unfair that I had condoned its actions in that respect. She said shed spent far more 
time than reflected by the £250 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss Ds upset. But I can assure her that my decision was not made to punishing her 
for disagreeing with our Investigator (as to the extent of redress hed recommended). This 
service operates under rules set out in the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority) 
handbook. They require us to operate a two-stage process. This allows for a complaint to be considered initially, with both parties getting a chance to respond and object, or agree. If 
both agree then the complaint will close. But if either objects then they have the right to ask 
for a review. And that is a review of everything  which can mean that the Ombudsman 
takes a different view on the complaint to that expressed by an Investigator. Which is why it 
is also part of our process to explain to both parties that, asking for an Ombudsmans review 
might result in a change to the outcome of the complaint. 
I absolutely understand that Miss D believes she did nothing wrong. That she has no doubt 
that the other driver was speeding. And I think there is likely evidence of exactly that  that 
Watford even acknowledges that there is some evidence of speed likely being a factor in the 
accident. But Watfords view was that even if speed could be proven in the way a court 
would accept, that likely wouldnt be enough to show that Miss D bore no liability at all for the 
accident. Which would mean that the claim would always end up being recorded as one of 
split liability. 
I can see why Miss D feels that £250 compensation is insufficient given all the time she has 
spent dealing with Watford. But I am satisfied that, for the upset caused by Watford not 
handling the claim well, £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.   
With regret for the further disappointment I know this will cause Miss D, I confirm that my 
view on the complaint hasnt changed from that expressed provisionally. So my provisional 
findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Watford to pay Miss D £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman