DRN-3857486
The complaint
Miss G and Mr P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to tell them to restart their 
mortgage payments after their covid related payment holiday came to an end.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss G and Mr P contacted Barclays to arrange a three-month covid related 
payment holiday  under a scheme communicated to lenders by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to help borrowers who were likely to experience difficulty with payments 
during the pandemic. Miss G and Mr P say Barclays said it would call them at the end of the 
payment holiday period to set up a new direct debit so that their mortgage payments could 
begin again.
Barclays didnt call Miss G and Mr P  it says it didnt have up-to-date contact telephone 
numbers for them. But it sent them a letter on 8 September 2020 saying theyd need to set 
up a new direct debit at least 14 days before the payment was due. Miss G and Mr P say 
they didnt receive that letter. 
Miss G and Mr P went on to miss two mortgage payments and contacted Barclays on         
12 December 2020 when they became aware of that. They made a payment and Barclays 
wrote to them with a plan to repay the arrears on the same day.
Miss G and Mr P complained to Barclays in 2022 about the impact on their credit file. In its 
final response letter dated 26 April 2022, Barclays upheld Miss G and Mr Ps complaint. To 
put matters right, Barclays arranged for the removal of missed payment information from 
Miss G and Mr Ps credit file and paid them £100.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Miss G and Mr P asked us to consider their complaint. 
They say theyve been unable to get the new mortgage interest rate they wanted because of 
the missed payment markers on their credit files. And they think Barclays should 
compensate them for that.
Our investigator thought Barclays acted reasonably when it submitted missed payment 
information to credit reference agencies (CRAs). So, she thought Barclays didnt need to do 
more as it had removed that information and offered to pay Miss G and Mr P £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss G and Mr P didnt agree. They said they complained to Barclays before and had 
Barclays agreed to remove that adverse credit information then, theyd not have had to 
accept a higher interest rate on their mortgage. As Miss G and Mr P didnt agree with our 
investigator, their complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Miss G and Mr Ps complaint, Ive thought about whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably regarding Miss G and Mr Ps covid related payment holiday, and whether 
Barclays caused them loss, distress or inconvenience as a result of an error.
Barclays has acknowledged that it didnt call Miss G and Mr P to initiate the setting-up of a 
new direct debit at the end of their payment holiday. Barclays hasnt been able to retrieve a 
recording of the call in which it said it would call Miss G and Mr P to arrange that direct debit, 
so it appears not have been able to verify that it said it would call Miss G and Mr P  weve 
not been able to verify that either. But Barclays does appear to have accepted                 
Miss G and Mr Ps assertion that it told them it would call them.
It transpired that Barclays didnt hold up-to-date telephone numbers for Miss G and Mr P, so 
it couldnt call them. It wrote to them instead. Ive seen a copy of that letter  it was 
addressed correctly and gave Miss G and Mr P sufficient time to set up a direct debit so that 
the next payment due could be made. I dont think Barclays necessarily would have known 
that it didnt have up-to-date telephone numbers at the time it told Miss G and Mr P it would 
call them, though it could have double checked at the time.
I would expect a lender to contact a borrower towards the end of their covid related payment 
holiday to remind them when their next payment was due. That said, it is the responsibility of 
the borrower to ensure payments are made on time. I havent seen that Barclays did 
anything here that prevented Miss G and Mr P from doing so at the end of their payment 
holiday. I accept that they may have been expecting a reminder, but I think Miss G and Mr P 
would have known that the payment holiday lasted for three months, so they also would 
have known when they next had to make a mortgage payment. I say that not to suggest 
Miss G and Mr P deliberately paid their mortgage late  I dont think they did  but the 
responsibility was theirs, none the less.
Miss G and Mr P have said Barclays should have removed the adverse credit information 
from their credit files when they first complained. Lenders have a responsibility to accurately 
report on the status of all accounts to CRAs. So, when Miss G and Mr P missed payments 
on their mortgage after the deferral period ended, I would expect Barclays to have reported 
that accurately to CRAs. I understand that caused Miss G and Mr P distress at the time, but 
I dont think Barclays acted unfairly. 
Ive seen that Barclays did inform Miss G and Mr P when payment was due, communicating 
in the way that was available to it. And I think it was Miss G and Mr Ps responsibility to 
ensure mortgage payments were made on time. So, I dont think Barclays needed to remove 
the adverse credit information from Miss G and Mr Ps credit files at all. Barclays has 
removed that information and thats a benefit to Miss G and Mr P, albeit that                    
Miss G and Mr P havent qualified for a mortgage rate they wanted. So, I dont think Barclays 
needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss G and Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman