DRN-3901298
The complaint
T, a limited company, represented by its broker, on behalf of its director, has complained 
about its commercial sports policy insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited. Because Aviva has 
declined its claim for netting damaged in a storm.
What happened
Ts premises were subject to storm conditions in 2022. Netting, set up in exterior parts of the 
property for, the broker says, health and safety purposes, was damaged. A claim was made 
to Aviva, which was declined.
Aviva noted T only had cover for fixtures and fittings. It said fencing would generally be 
covered under the buildings section of cover, which Ts policy didnt benefit from. But, in any 
event, damage to fences is excluded when caused by wind or rain. The broker argued that 
netting was not a fence as fences are usually wood or wire. And cover had specifically been 
requested for netting as part of fixtures and fittings, within the fact find document at 
application stage, which Aviva had not sought to deny when agreeing the policy. Aviva said it 
stood by the fact that the netting was a fence, and it said it had never received the fact find 
document, so it didnt agree it had allowed for netting to be covered. The broker said that as 
this was a sports policy, Aviva should have been clearer if it had wanted to exclude netting.
Aviva wasnt minded to change its view. T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt that Avivas decline was reasonable as the netting could reasonably be 
considered as fencing. And he accepted that Aviva had not been told that T had intended 
netting to be covered as part of the fixtures and fittings cover.
The broker advised that Ts director did not agree that the netting should be considered 
fencing. And reiterated that netting was not specifically excluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the position taken by our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain. 
The policy says that buildings are defined as including boundary walls, gates and fences. 
That is except where any are more specifically covered elsewhere. 
I can see that the broker intended to obtain cover for T which included the netting. But 
reference to cover for netting (fencing and netting) needing to be included to a value of 
£30,000 as part of the fixtures and fittings cover, was only included within the brokers fact 
find document. This document says the detail within it will be used to obtain cover. But 
nothing suggests it will be sent to the insurer. Rather, Im aware these documents are 
generally used to gather data which (the data) is then used as a part of the application 
process. The broker has not shown that the form itself was sent to Aviva and Aviva has said 
it was not received by it. That if it had been, it would have wanted further detail on a number 
of points included in the form. Im generally persuaded that its most likely that Aviva did not 
receive this form. So Aviva provided cover to T for £45,000 for fixtures and fittings only and 
I dont think it did anything that should reasonably give me cause to think it had accepted 
that netting would be included within that cover. 
So, it seems that there was no cover at all for the netting. Not unless it is felt that the netting 
is not reasonably considered as fencing. I appreciate that this is a sports policy, and netting 
can be used at sporting venues. But I dont think that means that if Aviva wanted to exclude 
cover for it here, it reasonably needed to specifically say so. No policy can detail everything 
that is not covered. And I dont think its fair to say that Aviva intends to wholly exclude cover 
for any netting. The issue of whether there is cover or not becomes one of circumstance. 
Because I think it is quite obvious that netting, in certain circumstances, can be used as a 
fence/form of fencing. And the policy wording shows that Aviva does want to treat fences as 
part of the buildings, and that damage to fences isnt covered when caused by wind or rain.
Ive therefore thought about whether its reasonable to view Ts netting as fencing. The 
broker has said that fencing is generally made of wood or wire, and its purpose is to divide 
two areas. But also that the definition of netting is open mesh material made by knotting 
together twine, wire, rope or thread. So both fencing and netting can be made of wire. Im 
mindful that the photos show the netting is a tall structure, held in place by fixed poles  
much like a traditional fence would be, although the material for the poles might vary. The 
broker also said that a fence would divide two areas, whereas this netting does not  it is 
there for health and safety purposes. But the broker goes on to explain that the health and 
safety issue is to protect people and objects in one area from air-borne items in the other. So 
whilst the netting is not necessarily creating an impassable security boundary  it is, fair to 
say I think, dividing the two areas. Im further mindful that the netting in question here is 
often also referred to as ball-stop fencing. Overall, Im persuaded that it is reasonable to 
view the netting as fencing. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Avivas decline of this claim was fair and 
reasonable. As such I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman