DRN-3645265
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2022, explaining why I wasnt minded to hold HSBC 
liable for Mr Ss loss:
Its not in dispute that Mr S authorised these payments  for £3,500 and £14,600
respectively. As HSBC has a duty to act on his authorised payment instructions
without undue delay, the starting position is that Mr S, not HSBC, is liable for them.
Banks are also expected to take measures to protect customers from financial 
harm from fraud. In light of that, the investigator took the view that, although 
the first payment didnt appear suspicious, HSBC should have identified a 
fraud risk when Mr S made the second payment. But Im not persuaded its 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for the loss stemming from either 
payment.
The funds werent transferred directly to the scammers, but to an account Mr 
S held with Wise  a legitimate electronic money institute regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). His loss occurred when he transferred the 
money on from his Wise account.
The key question here is  whats the actual cause of Mr Ss loss? In my 
view, there was a new, intervening act after these payments which was the 
cause of the loss. It wouldnt have been incurred but for the onward transfers 
Mr S made from Wise to the scammers.
The investigator thought HSBC should still have intervened. But I dont think 
any potential failings at that point are the real cause of the loss. This wasnt a 
scenario where a card payment was made through a transfer company such 
that the funds effectively went directly to the scammer. Nor was it the situation 
we often see, and which we expect banks to be aware of, where the 
consumer is directed to buy cryptocurrency from a legitimate company and 
send it on. Mr S instead directed his bank to pay the money to his own 
account with a regulated electronic money institute  which has its own 
obligations to Mr S, albeit different to the obligations of banks.
I therefore dont consider any failings by HSBC when processing the 
payments to be the cause of the loss. But even if I were to consider what 
would have happened if it had intervened, I have doubts about whether HSBC 
would have successfully prevented the payments. The company hadnt  and 
still hasnt  been flagged as a scam by the organisations (including the FCA) 
whose warnings we expect banks to be aware of. Its only the extensive 
enquiries Mr S has subsequently made which persuade me this was, in fact, a 
scam  as opposed to a bad investment, which banks have no obligations to 
protect consumers from.
So even if HSBC had intervened, I dont think it could have done more than 
give a general warning about cryptocurrency scams. I appreciate Mr S thinks 
any intervention would have broken the spell. But looking at the 
circumstances without the benefit of hindsight, I dont think its particularly 
clear that a general warning would have led to him uncovering the scam at 
that point. Hed already completed quite vigilant checks to satisfy himself 
before making these payments. The level of investigation he did when things 
went wrong, which led him to uncover the scam, went far beyond what wed 
reasonably expect the bank to check during an intervention call. But in any 
event, as explained, I dont consider any failings at this point to be the cause 
of the loss.
HSBC couldnt have done more to recover Mr Ss loss either, given that the 
funds were then transferred on from the receiving account to the scammers.
Its clear to me that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
Im sorry to hear about the impact this has had on him. But given the remoteness of 
the loss and the uncertainty around whether HSBC could have prevented it, I dont 
consider it fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for the loss caused by the 
scammers. 
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence. HSBC doesnt have 
anything to add. But Mr S has responded with some further comments, as summarised 
below:
When the money came out of his HSBC account, as initiated from Wises website, 
there was no further instruction by him to move the funds on from the Wise platform. 
He didnt set up Wise as a payee with HSBC as a separate step before transferring 
the money on. Hes provided screenshots of the process. 
There were two large payments within weeks of him opening the account. That 
wasnt normal activity, so should have been flagged and questioned by HSBC.
If it had done so, it would have been concerned that hed met the scammer via social 
media. And he would have heeded a warning from his bank  even if it was only a 
general warning about crypto scams.  
The case has now been passed back to me for review and a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including taking into account the response to my provisional decision, Im 
still not persuaded its fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for the loss. 
Although I understand Mr S thinks HSBC should have intervened, my provisional decision 
already covers why I dont consider any potential failings at that point to be the real cause of 
the loss. And that fundamentally comes down to the relationship between HSBCs role in 
transferring the funds, and the loss to the scammer. So Ive looked at the information Mr S 
has provided about the payment stages.
The transfer option Mr S has shown us as an example, by my understanding to show us 
what he would have selected when making these payments, says (with my emphasis):Transfer the money to Wise using your bank account. Should arrive in seconds.   
And the screenshot hes sent us for the £14,600 transfer shows the following steps: 
19th January 2020: You set up your transfer
19th January 2020: We received your GBP
21st January 2020: We paid out your USD
22nd January 2020: Transfer successfully sent 
Wise has confirmed the funds were paid into Mr Ss account via regular bank transfers from 
HSBC. So regardless of what Mr S saw when made the transfers, there were additional 
stages between the initial transfer and his loss which break the chain of causation.
The key here is that HSBC wasnt sending the money to the scammer. It was instructed to 
send it to Mr Ss own account with Wise, in sterling. Then Wise converted the funds to 
dollars and transferred the outward payment. And this process took a few days. It wasnt 
HSBCs role, in acting on Mr Ss authorised payment requests, that was the real cause of the 
loss. It was the onward transfers processed by Wise.
Furthermore, while I appreciate what Mr S has said about why HSBC ought to have been 
concerned, and how he would have reacted to even a general warning from HSBC, Ive also 
set out in my provisional decision why Im not persuaded appropriate intervention would 
have prevented his loss. Its always difficult to make this judgment in hindsight, knowing how 
things have unfolded. The lack of public information at the time indicating the company was 
a scam, the actions Mr S had taken to verify them before making these payments and the 
sophistication of the scam mean I still consider this an uncertainty. 
For these reasons, while I empathise with Mr S, Im not upholding this complaint. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to hold HSBC liable for his loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman