DRN-3334295
The complaint
Mrs Z and Miss Z are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined 
their travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mrs Z and Miss Z took out a single trip travel insurance policy, which was underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The start date of the policy was 9 February 2020 and ended on 17 February 
2020 and was taken out to cover their trip for the same dates. 
They booked their flights with the same provider which also included connecting flights. On 9 
February 2020, Mrs Z and Miss Z departed but the flight was delayed by 40 minutes, so they 
arrived late to their connecting destination. Because of the delay, they missed their 
connecting flight. Mrs Z and Miss Z had to stay overnight at the connecting destination, and 
they incurred additional costs which they hadnt anticipated and also had pre-booked, 
unused transport costs. 
Upon their return to the UK, Mrs Z and Miss Z submitted a claim to Great Lakes for the 
additional costs they incurred. Great Lakes declined the claim because it said Mrs Z and 
Miss Z hadnt left enough time to catch the connecting flight. It said 60 minutes wasnt 
sufficient time for ensuring they would make the connecting flight.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs Z and Miss Z brought their complaint to this 
service. They said they saw this itinerary when theyd originally tried to book the same flights 
through a travel website. This said that 60 minutes was enough time between the two flights 
so when they booked directly with the flight provider, theyd also allowed the same time 
between the two flights. Mrs Z and Miss Z said they missed their connecting flight because 
the first flight was delayed not because they hadnt left enough time for the connection. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She upheld it. She said she thought Great Lakes 
had acted unreasonably in declining Mrs Z and Miss Zs claim. She explained that if Great 
Lakes required Mrs Z and Miss Z to leave a specific amount of time to mitigate the risk of a 
missed departure, it would be fair for this to be set out clearly in their policy terms and 
conditions. She couldnt see that it was set out clearly and thought Mrs Z and Miss Z had a 
reasonable expectation to meet the scheduled check-in time of their connecting flight by 
allowing themselves the 60 minutes to do so. 
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigator. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me. 
Great Lakes have said they dont agree that 60 minutes was sufficient time to meet the 
connecting flight. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mrs Z and Miss Zs travel policy and, 
specifically, Section 11 Missed Departure on page 57. This says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, in 
the event that You arrive too late (as shown on Your ticket) to board Your pre-booked 
scheduled Public Transport at Your last departure point on Your outward journey or 
Your last departure point on Your return journey as a result of:
1. Scheduled Public Transport services failing to get You to Your last departure point 
due to Strike or Industrial Action, adverse weather conditions (but not those defined 
as a Catastrophe), mechanical failure or Your direct involvement in an accident; []
What is covered
1. Your reasonable and necessary additional travel and accommodation expenses 
(room only) of a similar standard to the original booking, to allow You to reach Your 
trip destination or catch up on Your scheduled itinerary (for missed departure on Your
outward journey) or to return Home (for missed departure from Your last departure
point on Your homeward journey).
What is not covered
[]
3. Any claim as a result of Your failure to allow sufficient time for the Public Transport 
to arrive on schedule and deliver You to Your departure point by the check-in time 
shown on Your travel itinerary.
And on page 58, it says:
Additional conditions applying to this section
1. You must allow sufficient time to reach any airport, station, port or terminus with 
reasonable expectation of meeting the scheduled check-in time.
Mrs Z and Miss Zs flight from the UK was delayed by 40 minutes and as a result of it 
arriving late to their connecting destination, they missed the connecting flight. 
Great Lakes say Mrs Z and Miss Z only allowed 60 minutes between the arrival and 
departure of their flights which isnt a sufficient amount of time. It said they should have 
allowed at least two hours for this. This was the reason for declining the claim. Theres no 
dispute that the flight leaving the UK was delayed by 40 minutes.
Ive considered whether its reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the above policy exclusion 
to decline the claim and whether I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The policy terms and conditions require Mrs Z and Miss Z to have allowed sufficient time to 
make their connection. There is no definition in the policy of sufficient time. In order for 
Great Lakes to rely on this exclusion, it would be reasonable for it to clearly set out what 
sufficient time is defined as.
I think the point here is that had Mrs Z and Miss Zs flight not been delayed from the UK, the  
60 minutes to make their connection would have been sufficient. They reached their starting 
airport on time. And they therefore had a reasonable expectation to meet the scheduled 
check-in time at their connecting destination. It wasnt within their control that there was a 
40-minute delayed departure. The policy provides cover for missed departure for the 
reasons Mrs Z and Miss Z are claiming. But the policy doesnt define what sufficient time 
ought to be allowed and its not clear on the expectation of this. Theres also nothing in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which says Mrs Z and Miss Z would be required to allow 
for any additional time in the case of a missed connection. 
I can see that Great Lakes refer to a travel claims website about minimum connection times. 
This says the minimum connection times for Mrs Z and Miss Zs connecting airport was 60 
minutes. It also suggests 60 minutes where the connecting flight is with the same flight 
provider and where there is no change in terminal. Mrs Z and Miss Z did in fact allow the 60 
minutes as a minimum which is alignment with their understanding and also what this travel 
claims website recommends.
Mrs Z has explained they were going to book the flights through a travel website which 
offered a guarantee that the connecting flight would be met if 60 minutes was allowed in 
between the arrival and departure of the flights. While Mrs Z didnt book their flights with this 
website but booked directly with the flight provider, she had no reason to believe 60 minutes 
wouldnt give them enough time to make the connecting flight. I think this is understandable 
and its reasonable to see why she allowed 60 minutes when she then booked her flights 
directly. Mrs Z and Miss Z said when booking their flights and the time allowed for 
connection, they also took into account that there was no change in the airline, and they 
didnt need to move to a different terminal either. They also had their boarding passes 
printed and only had hand luggage.
Based on the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that Great Lakes has 
declined Mrs Z and Miss Zs claim fairly and reasonably. Its reasonable to expect that if 
Great Lakes required them to allow a certain amount of time between the flights to make the 
connection then it would be fair to set this out clearly in the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive considered the main reason for the claim. That is the flight departing from the UK was 
delayed for factors outside of Mrs Z and Miss Zs control. They arrived at the airport in the 
UK in time for check-in. The policy provides cover for such an event. Mrs Z and Miss Z have 
also shown that when they made their flight booking, they gave thought to the connection 
time and took this into account when they allowed 60 minutes. The travel claims website 
also suggested allowing 60 minutes, as did the travel website they were originally going to 
book with. 
Ive also considered Great Lakes comments that the actual flight provider that Mrs Z booked 
their flights with recommends a minimum connection time of 150 minutes. Having done so, I 
can see this is generic advice that applies to all of their flights and while I accept the advice 
is there, it doesnt go on to provide any specific recommendation for the connecting airport 
Mrs Z and Miss Z. Also, as Ive mentioned above, Mrs Z and Miss Z provided their reasons 
why they believed 60 minutes would be a sufficient amount of time for them to make the 
connection and I think thats plausible taking into consideration all the other information 
available. Overall, therefore, I dont think Great Lakes has declined the claim fairly or reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. The policy doesnt set out clearly the definition of sufficient 
time and in the absence of that, having taken account of everything, I think Mrs Z and Miss 
Z have shown they allowed 60 minutes to make the connecting flight and the reasons 
theyve for doing so seem entirely reasonable. Ultimately, they missed their connecting flight 
because their first flight was delayed from the UK and not because they didnt allow sufficient 
time to make the connecting flight. 
I therefore recommend that Great Lakes now reconsider the claim subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes should now reconsider Mrs Z and Miss Zs claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of their policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Z and Miss Zs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Miss Z 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman