DRN-2174342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) declined 
their application to remortgage, despite Mr and Mrs O being in a better financial position than 
they were when they took their original mortgage around two years before. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O held a mortgage with Nationwide. This mortgage was a three-year fixed rate 
deal. After holding this mortgage for around two years, Mr and Mrs O explain that they 
realised the property theyd purchased wasnt their dream home, and theyd found a new 
property that better suited their needs.
The new property was more expensive that Mr and Mrs Os previous property, so they 
applied to Nationwide for additional borrowing to cover the cost of the new property.
Nationwide declined Mr and Mrs Os application for additional borrowing. It explained that 
one of the applicants failed to meet its lending and affordability criteria. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with Nationwides decision to decline the application. They 
explained that Nationwide had lent to them less than 24 months ago, and since then their 
income had increased, and their overall debt had decreased. They complained to 
Nationwide, but it didnt uphold the complaint  maintaining that Mr and Mrs Os application 
didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs O further explained that theyd be financially disadvantaged as a result of 
Nationwides decision, as theyd have to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of around 
£2,500 to redeem their Nationwide mortgage and take a new mortgage with a different 
lender. And theyd also have to pay a product fee of around £1,000 to the new lender.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. He explained that whilst he couldnt comment on Nationwides specific lending 
criteria, he felt Nationwide had communicated its decision fairly, explaining the reasons for 
the declined application. So he didnt think Nationwide needed to waive the ERC or 
compensate Mr and Mrs O for any other fees associated with moving their mortgage to a 
new lender.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision and bring the matter to a close.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Its not for this service to question Nationwides lending criteria or risk appetite on who it 
lends to. Ultimately, thats a decision for Nationwide to make, and I cant control that. But Ive 
considered the reasons Nationwide gave for declining Mr and Mrs Os application. 
Nationwide has explained that as part of its checks, it takes into account the applicants 
credit score in order to get an overall picture of their financial health. This includes checking 
their credit file, but its also common for this information to be used alongside other 
information, such as details included in the application, the applicants employment and 
address history, and anything else the lender already knows about the applicants. 
From what Ive seen, it looks as though when Mr and Mrs O initially applied for the mortgage 
it was automatically declined by the Nationwides system as it failed Nationwides credit 
score. Around 10 days later Mr and Mrs O applied again, and this was automatically 
declined again by the system, for the same reason. Mr and Mrs O appealed this decision, so 
it was referred to one of Nationwides mortgage underwriters to review manually. The 
underwriter agreed that the application should be declined and gave a number of reasons for 
this. Whilst they didnt explain which applicant each reason applied to, they explained that 
each one applied to at least one of the applicants. The reasons given were:
- High credit card utilisation;
- A missed credit card payment;
- A new credit card with a £5,000 limit taken two months before the application, and 
how that card had been used;
- High overdraft usage, including at least one account exceeding its limit;
- They concluded that overall these circumstances did not show a strong enough 
financial position to overturn the original decline decision. 
I note that Mr and Mrs O dont agree with some of the information that Nationwide has relied 
on. For example, theyve explained that they have less debts now than they did have, and 
they earn more. But Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs O applied to borrow substantially more 
money than theyd previously borrowed; this application was to borrow £199,000 as opposed 
to the previous £126,500. And as Ive already explained, their credit score can be made up 
of a variety of factors, not limited to financial information from their credit files. Alongside this, 
a number of factors will affect how lenders interpret overall credit score information  bearing 
in mind that companies risk appetites and lending criteria can also change over time. So I 
cant say that it was unfair for Nationwide to initially lend to Mr and Mrs O, but not to lend 
more to them two years later, even if they believe their financial situation had improved 
somewhat.
Turning to the Early Repayment Charge that Mr and Mrs O had to pay to exit their mortgage 
to move to another lender, Ive also thought about whether this was fair. 
I can see the mortgage offer from the time Mr and Mrs O took their initial mortgage. It 
explained that the ERC would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed within the fixed 
term period of three years. And it goes on to explain that if the mortgage was redeemed in 
the second year (between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020) an ERC of £2530 would be 
payable. So as the event in question took place around March 2020, it seems as though the 
amount quoted for Mr and Mrs O to end their mortgage deal was correct. 
Whilst I fully appreciate that Mr and Mrs O feel strongly about their complaint, especially as 
Mrs O has been a loyal customer of Nationwide for 20 years, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Nationwide has acted unfairly in this case. Nationwide is free to approve 
or decline the applications that it chooses, and although it did in Mr and Mrs Os case, its not 
obliged to explain why when it declines a lending application. And whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs O had found a new property that they were very keen on buying, I dont think that 
means they had to redeem their existing mortgage and buy the new property. But as they 
chose to, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Nationwide to refund the Early Repayment Charge, 
or any associated fees they had to pay to their new lender to do so.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline Mr 
and Mrs Os mortgage application. And I also dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably by 
requiring Mr and Mrs O to pay the ERC on their previous mortgage when they chose to 
remortgage to a new lender whilst still in a fixed mortgage deal. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said 
before reaching my decision. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I appreciate that this isnt the answer that Mr and Mrs O were hoping Id make, 
but I hope they can understand my reasons for doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman