DRN-3237729
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) didnt tell him 
that he wouldnt receive a refund if he cancelled his policy four months after hed taken it out. 
He is also unhappy that Adrian Flux didnt comply with his request to send all information to 
him by post. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 December 2021, explaining why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
On 4 January 2021, Mr P took out an insurance policy with Adrian Flux to cover his 
second ice-cream van. Following the sale of the ice-cream van, Mr P cancelled his 
policy in May 2021. At that time, he was told he wouldnt receive a refund of the 
premiums paid, due to the length of time the policy had been in place. The call 
handler explained to Mr P that the insurer, a company Ill refer to as T, cancel policies 
only on a short-period basis and retain a percentage of the premium for every month 
of cover. This means that if the policy is cancelled after four months, then no refund 
would be paid. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Adrian Fluxs explanation and brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. She 
explained that if Mr P hadnt received the policy documents, then the onus was on 
him to follow up with the broker to obtain a copy of these. Our investigator felt that in 
refunding £35 to Mr P as a goodwill gesture, Adrian Flux had done enough to resolve 
his complaint. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. In response he said hed only intended to 
keep the van for the short term, and if hed been told that no refund would be paid if 
the policy was cancelled after the first four months, he wouldnt have taken it out. 
Ive taken Mr Ps further comments into account in making my decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two key elements to Mr Ps complaint. The first is that his specific request 
for all information to be sent to him by post, wasnt complied with. As a result, he 
says he didnt receive the policy terms and conditions until four months after the 
policy had started. 
The second part of Mr Ps complaint is that Adrian Flux didnt make him aware of the 
cancellation terms of the policy before he bought it. He says that had they done so, 
he wouldnt have taken out the policy because he only intended to keep the van for a 
short period.
In considering Mr Ps complaint Ive listened to the sale and cancellation calls, and 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions and the information that was sent to 
Mr P after the sale. 
From the start of the sales call, Mr P clearly stated that he didnt have a computer 
and needed all information to be sent to him by post. Around four minutes into the 
sales call, the sales adviser agreed to communicate with Mr P in that way. However, 
the welcome letter sent to Mr P, on the same day, didnt include a copy of the policy 
terms and conditions. Instead, it said that if the recipient didnt have access to a 
computer they could contact Adrian Flux to request a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions. Four months later, when Mr P phoned to cancel his policy, again, Adrian 
Flux insisted that he had been provided with a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions, because hed been given a link to download them. After Mr P had 
reiterated, more than once, that he didnt have access to a computer and had asked 
for everything to be posted to him when he took the policy out, the call handler 
arranged to send him a copy of the policy terms and conditions. 
Where a customer states a clear communication preference, and the business 
agrees to communicate in that way, I would expect the business to do just that. 
However, in this case, on the same day that postal communication was requested, 
and agreed to, Mr P was sent some of the key information via a link to a website. 
That was a clear failing in the way Adrian Flux dealt with Mr P, which continued 
during his period of cover. I could hear on the phone calls how frustrated Mr P was 
with this, and I also could see how it had caused him inconvenience. Im therefore 
currently of the view that by not adhering to Mr Ps communication preferences, 
Adrian Flux has caused Mr P frustration and stress that he should be compensated 
for.
Ive next considered Mr Ps complaint that Adrian Flux didnt make him aware of the 
short-term rates and associated refund terms, before he purchased the policy. I note 
that 13 minutes into the call, the sales adviser asked Mr P if they could proceed with 
limited information and send him the full details after the call, which Mr P agreed to. 
However, wed usually expect a seller to highlight short term rates when selling a 
policy. Ive listened to the sales call and Im satisfied that this term wasnt highlighted 
before Mr P agreed to purchase the policy. While a letter was sent to him which 
invited him to contact Adrian Flux to obtain a copy of the policy terms and conditions, 
that information was provided after the sale, and there was no reference to short term 
rates and the cancellation provisions which related to them, in any of the materials 
sent to Mr P following the sale. I therefore dont think Adrian Flux did enough to draw 
this to Mr Ps attention before selling him the policy.
When considering whether a policy has been mis-sold, in addition to being satisfied 
that the business failed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading, 
I also need to be persuaded that if the business had provided clear information, the 
customer would have likely made a different decision about buying the policy.
Ive given this careful consideration. On the one hand, Mr P has said a number of 
times that he wouldnt have proceeded with the policy if hed known that he wouldnt 
get a pro-rata refund, on cancelling the policy. However, on the other hand, while 
commercial motor insurance policies do vary in relation to short-term rates, in my experience, most commercial policies on the market have short term rates, so Im not 
currently persuaded that Mr P would have been able to obtain a policy which didnt 
include these rates, elsewhere in the market. Also, although Mr P said he would have 
read the policy terms and conditions if theyd been provided to him, he also told our 
investigator that he was too busy with his business to phone Adrian Flux to request a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions. So, taking everything into account, Im 
currently of the view that Mr P most likely wouldnt have made a different decision 
about taking out the policy. 
In any event, Im satisfied that Mr P hasnt suffered a loss as a result of Adrian Flux 
not making these terms clear. I say this because, after Mr P complained to Adrian 
Flux about the way theyd sold the policy to him, they referred the matter to Mr Ps 
insurer, T, who agreed to a pro-rata refund. Also, Adrian Flux agreed to waive their 
cancellation fee of £30 as a gesture of goodwill. So, the sum of approximately £198 
was refunded back to Mr Ps card. 
However, I have gone on to consider whether or not Adrian Flux have done enough 
to compensate Mr P for the way the policy was sold, and for their communication 
failings. Although Mr P received a payment of approximately £198 from Adrian Flux, 
£168 of that amount was a refund from his insurer, T. So, Adrian Flux has only paid 
Mr P £30 as a good will gesture.
I went on to say that, in paying Mr P £30 compensation, Adrian Flux hadnt gone far enough 
to compensate him for the poor service hed received from them. Given the short-term rates 
werent highlighted to him before he agreed to purchase the policy, and his request for all 
communications and documentation to be sent to him by post wasnt complied with, I 
concluded that Adrian Flux should pay Mr P a further £120 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result.
I asked Mr P and Adrian Flux to let me have any further comments or evidence to consider 
by 5 January 2022. Adrian Flux responded to say they accepted the provisional decision and 
had nothing further to add. Mr P also confirmed that he accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the findings and conclusion I reached in the provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from those findings or conclusion.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and this final decision, I uphold this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I require Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group to pay Mr P an additional £120 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by the way theyve dealt 
with the sale and cancellation of his policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and make the award detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman