DRN-3249974
The complaint
Mr B complains about the delayed encashment of his investment by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited.
He says hes suffered a financial loss as a result of the actions of the business.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 14 December 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to safely
say that Aviva behaved unreasonably.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr B and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its
for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to
have happened.
Given the nature of the conversation between Mr Bs wife and Aviva, on balance Im not
persuaded that Avivas to blame for not sending Mr Bs surrender forms along with his wifes
forms on 26 February 2020.
Based on what the investigator says, I understand Mr B was expecting to be sent the
surrender forms by Aviva, but I note Mr B wasnt a party to the conversation between his
wife and Aviva  and Aviva wasnt a party to his and his wifes previous discussions  so in
the circumstances, I cant blame Aviva for not managing his expectations.
The February phone call, initiated by Mr Bs wife, was in the main about the value of her
investment, not receiving her latest statement, and the possibility of encashing her
investment to pay off the balance of their mortgage  but she was unsure what she should
do.
I note during the conversation Mr Bs wife briefly asked about the value of his investment,
but Aviva made clear that it couldnt discuss his investment, because its not authorised to
discuss it with her  however, it undertook to re-send a copy of his statement.
I note Mr Bs wife, during the conversation about her investment, said:
Yeah if you could just tell me the cash-in value on that you wont be able to tell me the
cash in value on my husbands unless he does it with you, Ive got the other policy number.
Aviva in response said:
Yeah unfortunately I would need to have a discussion with your husband as well. I can
definitely provide you with a surrender value of yours at the moment.
I note that at no point during this call  between Mr Bs wife and Aviva  did she specifically
ask Aviva to provide surrender forms for Mr B, and at no point did Aviva undertake to do so.
Despite what the investigator says, in my opinion without the benefit of hindsight Aviva
wasnt obliged to clarify a question that it wasnt asked. So, in the circumstances, I cant
blame Aviva for not clarifying if Mr B would need to phone Aviva to request the surrender
forms because it was never asked to.
Based on Mr Bs wifes comments and Avivas response, it could be argued that it wouldve
been sensible for Mr B to call Aviva and make his own enquiries about his investment and
request surrender forms if thats what he wanted. Im mindful that Aviva sent the surrender
form shortly after Mr B called on 9 March 2020 which I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im satisfied that Aviva
made reasonably clear on the forms sent, the information that it needed in order to proceed
with his instructions.
I appreciate Mr B thought the notice of no interest didnt apply to him, but I dont think I can
blame Aviva for this, or the delays that consequently arose because Aviva didnt have all the
documentation needed to proceed with his instructions to encash his investment.
I dont think Mr B disagrees that Aviva was entitled to ask for this documentation and was
probably obliged to do so as part of wider anti-money laundering regulations, given the
historic charge that Mr Bs building society had on his investment. Furthermore, it was Mr Bs
responsibility to provide all the information Aviva needed.
Im satisfied Aviva provided guidance on what it required and did so from the very outset.
Despite what Mr B says, Aviva didnt say that he didnt need to provide the information if hed
changed his mortgage to interest only. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs conclusion
on this point was reasonable. I note the extract  on page one of the quote  dated 10 March
2020, states:
Our records indicate that Mr Bs building society (name anonymised) has an interest
in this policy. They will need to release it by sending us a letter of no further interest
before we are able to action anything
I also cant ignore that by the time Aviva had received the returned forms from Mr B, which
was 20 March 2020, the Covid-19 global pandemic had begun to significantly impact upon
UK life and business.
In the circumstances, its likely that Aviva too will have started operating or about to operate
with a significantly reduced workforce, and remotely  almost overnight  during these
unprecedented times. So, in the circumstances I cant blame Aviva for not being able
respond to Mr B sooner  i.e. seven days  as a result of issues that were outside of itscontrol.
In any case, I note Aviva reminded Mr B, again, of the documents that it needed in order to
proceed with his request which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
Notwithstanding the above, it seems that the Covid-19 pandemic also had an impact on the
global financial markets, causing Aviva to review its With-Profits bonuses from 15 April 2020.
Again, this isnt something that I can blame Aviva for, as its entitled to do so in the
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement.
On balance, I dont think Aviva envisaged having to review its bonuses, but it did so because
of the global pandemic and impact on the financial markets. In the circumstances, I cant
blame Aviva for taking action to protect itself and its customers as a result of matters that
were outside of its control.
Despite what Mr B says about the surrender value, at no point was he guaranteed a certain
surrender value. Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr B that the value would be
calculated once all the documentation had been received.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im unable to blame
Aviva for any loss he suffered.
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr B what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wanted me to consider before making my decision. 
The business responded and agreed with my provisional decision. It had no further points to 
add. 
Mr B also responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. In short, he said that 
although the complaint had previously been upheld by the investigator, he doesnt hold much 
hope now of a fair outcome. He feels that big insurance companies will always win because 
theyre able to employ lawyers to argue technical points, regardless of the way the business 
incompetence effects poor customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr B, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still dont think the complaint should be 
upheld, and despite what Mr B says, Im unable to safely say that Aviva behaved 
unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman