DRN-2159159
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined a claim he made under his gadget 
insurance and were obstructive in the way they handled the claim.
What happened
Mr K had a mobile and gadget insurance policy underwritten by Amtrust.
He made a claim after for loss of an iMac computer which he says was stolen from his car. 
He says hed left it on the back seat of the parked car when he went to see a friend.
Amtrust declined the claim and referred Mr K to the terms of the policy. These say Amtrust 
wont cover theft from a car unless its locked, the gadgets are concealed out of sight and 
theres evidence of a forced entry.
Mr K complained to Amtrust but they maintained their position, so he brought his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms are as Amtrust described them to Mr K.
Theres a specific theft exclusion which says Amtrust wont cover any loss where a gadget is 
stolen from a car unless its locked, the gadgets are concealed and theres a forced entry.
Theres also a more general exclusion which says no cover is provided where a gadget is 
left unattended where the policyholder cant see it but others can and theres a risk of it 
being stolen or damaged.
Theres nothing unusual about those policy terms. I cant see that they are particularly 
onerous or unfair. And they are clearly set out in the policy, in plain English. 
Mr K has been very clear throughout that he left his computer on the back seat. Hes 
explained why he did this  he was moving and on his way to his new residence when the 
alleged incident occurred. But that doesnt alter the fact that Amtrust offer cover on the terms 
set out in the policy.
So, because Mr K left his gadget in plain sight on the back seat, hes not covered. And its 
not unreasonable for Amtrust to decline his claim on that basis.
Theres also a question of whether the car was locked at the relevant time. In his original call 
to Amtrust, Mr K said the locking mechanism hadnt worked  which he hadnt realised at the 
time  and there had been no forced entry.
If that were the case, theres a second reason for Amtrust declining the claim  not that they 
need two reasons, of course.
Mr K later told Amtrust there had been a forced entry and provided photographs which 
purported to show damage to his car.
I dont think it would be unreasonable or unfair in that context for Amtrust to be unsure about 
whether the car was locked at the time of the alleged theft.
Mr K also objected to Amtrust asking him for evidence to substantiate his claim and asking 
him to ensure the computer was registered as stolen with the Police. I cant see that Amtrust 
have acted unreasonably or unfairly in any way in handling Mr Ks claim in the way they did.
The terms of the policy make it clear that items must be reported as stolen to the police. And 
they require the policyholder to provide information and evidence at Amtrusts request. 
Nothing Amtrust asked Mr K to do  or to provide  was unreasonable in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman