DRN-2558239
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) gave him the wrong 
information about a refund and some compensation hed be getting.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr H contacted Nationwide about a refund he was expecting into an 
external account. He says he was told the refund would reach his account within two hours. 
This didnt happen. 
Nationwide said it couldnt find any record of any of its staff telling Mr H the refund would be 
with his external account within two hours. It says it told him the refund would take 15 
working days. 
Mr H says Nationwide also told him it would pay him £30 compensation. Nationwide 
accepted that one of its branch staff said this. But the £30 related to a different complaint of 
Mr Hs and had already been paid to Mr H. Nationwide has apologised for giving misleading 
information that made Mr H think hed be paid another £30 compensation.
Mr H also says Nationwide has taken too long to deal with this complaint. Our investigator 
considered all the issues and didnt think Nationwide needed to do any more. Because Mr H 
disagreed with this, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for the following 
reasons:
Ive looked at the contact notes Nationwide has provided. These dont show Mr H 
was told the refund would take two hours. They do suggest Mr H was told it would 
take 15 days for the refund to reach his other account.
Nationwide has accepted it made a mistake when a member of branch staff told Mr H 
hed be getting £30 compensation. Nationwide gave Mr H the right information within 
a week and has said sorry for its error. 
Mr H has explained the impact of the mistake was that he was unable to buy food. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think its Nationwides fault that Mr H was 
without food. This is because if itd given Mr H the correct information, he still 
wouldnt have got the £30 compensation.
Our rules dont allow us to look at Mr Hs concerns about how Nationwide handled 
his complaint or how long it took.
I appreciate that Mr H feels he was left in a vulnerable position by Nationwide. But some of 
the things Mr H has told us have made me think hes going through a difficult time at the 
moment  and I dont think I can hold Nationwide responsible for this. 
Our investigator has given Mr H the contact details of some charities that may be able to 
help him. I hope Mr H will be able to get the support he requires through those channels.
I know Mr H will be unhappy with my decision, but for the reasons Ive given above, I dont 
think Nationwide needs to do any more here.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman