DRN-3661913
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE unfairly declined a claim under her 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs A made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy in order to take action 
against a firm of solicitors for professional negligence. As cover was declined, she raised a 
complaint which she brought to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and found that Great Lakes had declined cover on the
basis that Mrs A needed to raise her concerns about the solicitors with the Legal
Ombudsman in the first instance.
Great Lakes said Mrs A must exhaust all other avenues and court action should be a last
resort. It relied on a policy condition which says, you will take all steps necessary to assist in
the recovery of legal costs from a third party where appropriate and where you are able to do
so.
Our investigator didnt think this was a fair basis to decline the claim. She said this policy
condition is most commonly used to ensure that costs incurred during the legal action  and
covered by the policy  are recovered and the policyholder doesnt prevent or hinder the
insurer from doing so.
She also didnt think the Legal Ombudsman would be able to address the key points of Mrs 
As complaint about the solicitors, and referred to their website which says their role isnt to 
determine whether a solicitors actions amounted to professional negligence, but to decide if 
the level of service provided was acceptable.
On this basis, our investigator upheld the complaint and asked Great Lakes to reconsider the
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes responded to our investigator to say that much of Mrs As complaint about the
solicitor relates to the service provided, which could be considered by the Legal
Ombudsman. It said the outcome of this process would be helpful when considering the
prospects of success and proportionality of any legal claim. And that legal action must be a
last resort, as pursuing it without exhausting all other channels could result in Mrs A being
penalised in court.
But Great Lakes acknowledges that declining the claim on this basis may have been a bit
premature. And that it shouldve really been placed on hold whilst Mrs A exhausted this
process.
That said, Great Lakes says that the claim was also declined for another reason which
appeared to have been overlooked. It said Mrs As legal expenses insurance policy was only
in place between June 2018 and June 2019. And that her policy after this one doesnt have 
legal expenses cover included.
Great Lakes says that whilst Mrs A raised two complaints to the solicitors during the policy
period, her professional negligence claim didnt arise until August 2020 onwards, after which
point the policy had expired. As such, it said the claim wouldnt be covered for this reason.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and agreed the claim wasnt covered as the
insured event didnt occur whilst the policy was in place. But she said Great Lakes complaint
response was misleading as it only addressed the failure to complain to the Legal
Ombudsman. So she considered it fair that Great Lakes pay £100 compensation for the
confusion.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It said its complaint response did address the specific reason why
the claim was declined. And that Mrs A had been notified of both reasons.
Mrs A didnt agree either. She says her dispute with the solicitors started within the policy
period, so cover should be provided.
As neither party agreed, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision 
in July 2022 which said:
Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mitigation
As with any legal proceedings, Mrs A does have a duty to mitigate her losses  which 
includes exhausting all other available routes prior to resorting to court action.
Should Mrs A decide to pursue her claim in court without doing so, theres a risk of a less 
favourable outcome being reached, or adverse costs being awarded against her. This is 
because the court doesnt look favourably on people bringing cases to court where there 
were alternative non-legal routes available to resolve things. This is considered to be 
wasting the courts time.
I understand Mrs A has now submitted her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman and is 
awaiting their decision. And Great Lakes acknowledges that its decision to decline the claim 
for this reason was premature. So Im satisfied this issue has reached a conclusion and 
theres no outstanding dispute for me to decide.
Date of claim
The terms and conditions of Mrs As legal expenses insurance policy says:
Upon payment of the premium, the insurer will provide you with legal expenses 
protection for the risks identified in the following sections, up to a limit of £100,000 for 
any one claim,provided that the legal action or criminal prosecution
ii) occurred during the period of insurance.
iii) has been notified to us as soon as reasonably possible after the date of 
event.
The policy provides the following definitions:Period of insurance means the period shown on your certificate and any further period for 
which you have paid or have agreed to pay and we have accepted or agreed to accept your 
premium.
Date of event is the date of any event which may lead to a claim; where there is more than 
one such event, the date of the first of these.
The policy has a general exclusion for events before the insurance starts which is defined 
as any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind which occurs as a result of an 
event before the period of insurance starts.
The risk identified by the policy which is most applicable to the circumstances of this claim is 
defined as:
Legal costs incurred in bringing a claim or beginning civil proceedings against a third 
party or organisation forthe purchase, hire, lease or sale of any personal or private 
goods or the provision of services for your private or personal use.
Based on the information provided, Ive put together a timeline of the key events in order to 
identify the date of event and when the legal action occurred.
Jun 2018 Policy starts
Dec 2018 Mrs A raises a complaint to solicitors about concerns over the 
information being requested
Feb 2019 Mrs A raises a further complaint to solicitors about their handling of a 
medical report
Jun 2019 Policy ends
Aug 2020 Mrs A raises a further complaint which leads the solicitors to conclude 
that the relationship has broken down and theyre no longer prepared 
to act for her
Sep 2020 Solicitors come off record
Feb 2021 Mrs A receives a bill for their costs, at which point she raises a claim
under her policy with Great Lakes.
I consider the date of event is December 2018. I say this because this is the first of the 
series of incidents which gave rise to this claim. I appreciate Great Lakes may disagree, as it 
has concluded the incident started in August 2020. It said that as the date of event occurred 
after the policy expired, theres no cover available.
But the solicitors actions in August 2020 were in response to a complaint Mrs A had logged 
against them. This complaint forms part of a series of complaints Mrs A made about the 
handling of her legal case. And because of this, the solicitors said it was clear Mrs A had 
lost faith in them and as such, they were no longer prepared to act for her.
For this reason, I dont consider the incidents in August 2020 as being a new series of 
events or an isolated incident which isnt related to the events occurring before it. So Im 
satisfied the date of event occurred within the period of insurance.
But that isnt the test here.The policy says its the legal action that must occur within the period of insurance  not the 
date of event. The policy only says the legal action must be notified as soon as reasonably 
possible after the date of event. And that the events must not start until after the policy did  
which is the case here.
As no legal action was initiated within the dates of the policy and the policy is no longer in 
place, I dont think Mrs As claim has satisfied the policy condition that legal action must 
occur within the period of insurance.
But that isnt the only issue I need to consider. I also need to think about whether its fair of 
Great Lakes to apply the term in this case. It might not be if this was a significant or unusual 
term of the policy which shouldve been drawn to Mrs As attention in the policy documents 
that Great Lakes was responsible for  and wasnt. This is a requirement of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to either require a claim to occur within 
the policy period (i.e. the series of events started whilst cover was in place) or that a claim is 
made within the policy period (i.e. the claim must rise and be notified to the insurer whilst 
cover is in place).
According to the wording of this policy, the requirements are that the claim must arise, be 
notified to Great Lakes and legal action initiated all within the period of insurance.
This is not a common condition. Im of the view that this is an unusual and significant term. I 
say this because it significantly restricts a customers options to move insurance providers 
once a series of events has started which may lead to a claim.
Having looked at the key facts document available online, I cant see that this policy 
requirement has been brought to Mrs As attention as a significant term in line with ICOBS.
Ive thought about whether Mrs A wouldve done anything differently had this significant term 
been brought to her attention. And I think she would have. Given the situation she was in 
with a firm of solicitors during her period of insurance, I think its likely she wouldve renewed 
her legal expenses policy in June 2019 if shed known that it must be in place when legal 
action occurred, not just when the series of events started.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to rely on this term as its a 
significant term that wasnt brought to Mrs As attention. And as Im persuaded the series of 
events started within the policy period, I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to reconsider 
this claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Compensation
Our investigator recommended that Great Lakes pay Mrs A compensation, in recognition of 
the confusion it caused over the rejection of this claim. Im inclined to agree. I say this 
because having read the email correspondence between Mrs A and Great Lakes as well as 
the correspondence from Great Lakes to our service, the reasons for declining this claim 
have been very unclear and inconsistent.
I can see that Great Lakes initially declined the claim on the basis that Mrs A needed to take 
her case to the Legal Ombudsman  which it acknowledges was premature. It was almost a 
month later that Great Lakes informed Mrs A that the date of her claim fell outside the policy 
period. And its explanation focused on the date of event, which isnt what the policy terms 
say  as explained above.Great Lakes final response to the complaint doesnt mention the specific reason for rejecting 
the claim. But it says the following
I have concluded that our claims team have undertaken a fair review of your claim 
and have provided you with the instructions on the next steps, which I do deem to be 
both fair and reasonableI am satisfied our claims team have confirmed the position 
on your claim accurately and have advised you on the outcome, as well as what is 
required of you.
I can see why our investigator is of the opinion that this letter is referring to the mitigation 
rejection only, as it refers to next steps and actions required indicating that this isnt the end 
of the claim. Im persuaded that had the letter been declining the claim based on the date of 
event, it wouldve been more final.
Overall, I think Great Lakes couldve been clearer when declining the claim  giving the full 
reasons why it made this decision from the outset, and within its final response to the 
complaint. Furthermore, the reasons for declining the claim didnt take into account the 
actual wording of the policy terms.
Taking everything into account, I dont think £100 adequately addresses whats gone wrong 
here and Im inclined to award Mrs A compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs A accepted my provisional decision but asked for clarification on what to expect from 
the companys obligations to follow up on the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Great Lakes didnt accept what I said. It says my decision has been based on the claim 
being rejected, when it was not. It explains that Mrs A was told to exhaust the Legal 
Ombudsman route of escalation, before looking to make a legal claim, not that her claim was 
rejected for this. 
In addition, Great Lakes says the matter of rejecting the claim on the basis of the date of 
event is something that was raised after the final response to the complaint and as such it 
isnt something our service can look into until Great Lakes has had the chance to consider it 
first. 
Now that both parties have had the opportunity to respond, I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first deal with Great Lakes further submissions, which I must say has caused some 
further confusion and inconsistency. Ill explain why. 
As set out in the what happened section above, our investigator provided her view of this 
complaint based solely on the decision to decline the claim due to Mrs A not mitigating her 
losses by complaining to the Legal Ombudsman in the first instance. She upheld the 
complaint and asked Great Lakes to reconsider the claim. Great Lakes didnt accept this as it said the claim was also declined because the event 
which could constitute negligence actually fell outside of the period [Great Lakes] were on 
cover for and that this had been overlooked.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and her updated view was that the claim had 
been correctly declined on the basis that it fell outside the policy period. But she awarded 
compensation as she didnt think the complaint response addressed this reason for declining 
the claim. 
Great Lakes didnt accept this either. In an email to our service dated 7 March 2022, it said 
the complaint response letter didnt only address the rejection regarding mitigation. This 
email confirms that the claim was declined and that it was for more than one reason. 
So Im not persuaded by Great Lakes recent comments that the claim was not rejected at 
all. Or that it hasnt had the opportunity to consider the date of the event. I say this because, 
according to its previous emails, the claim was declined for both mitigation and date of event 
 and that its complaint response was referring to both these reasons.
Its disappointing to see further inconsistencies, and I can certainly see why Mrs A has been 
confused by these responses. So Im further persuaded that my compensation award is 
justified here.
As Great Lakes has provided no further reasons for disagreeing with my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to deviate from my previous outcome.
Mrs A has asked for clarification on what I meant by the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. By this, I mean that Great Lakes must reconsider the claim without applying the 
exclusions raised previously  which Ive determined to be unfairly applied  but it still needs 
to take into account the remaining requirements of the policy as set out in the terms and 
conditions. 
My role isnt to come to a decision on the claim itself, so Im not making a finding on whether 
the claim is covered or not. Thats for Great Lakes to determine when reconsidering the 
claim. And should it decline the claim for another reason, Mrs A has the right to raise a 
further complaint which she can escalate to our service at the appropriate time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint and directing Great Lakes 
Reinsurance (UK) SE to:
Pay Mrs A compensation of £300.
Reconsider Mrs As claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
These actions should be taken within 28 days of Mrs As acceptance of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman