DRN-2602693
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Chubb European Group SE has declined a claim he made under his 
purchase protection and refund protection insurance policy.
What happened
In late July 2020 Mr S bought a collectors bottle of whisky online  for £636. A delivery date 
for the whisky was arranged for July 2020, and the bottle was delivered on that date. Mr S 
had let the delivery company know it was fine for the item to be left on the porch at his 
property if need be. So, this was where the delivery company left it. However, when Mr S 
went to the porch to look for and retrieve the whisky, it wasnt where it had been left.
Because of this Mr S made a claim under his purchase protection, and refund protection 
policy, as it covers theft of an item purchased on his credit card, for 90 days after purchase.
When initially making his claim, Mr S explained that the item had been lost in transit. And 
Chubb declined the claim at this point  noting that Mr S policy didnt provide cover for items 
when not in Mr S possession. But Mr S said he had made a mistake in the way the claim 
was reported  as he was now aware the whisky had not been lost in transit but had indeed 
been delivered.
Chubb investigated the claim again  but still declined it. Chubb said that Mr S policy didnt 
cover him in these circumstances either. And it referred to an exclusion in the insurance 
policy, which said it wouldnt provide cover where the policyholder had failed to take 
sufficient care of the item or had left it unsecured or outside of reach.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said that he wasnt sure why he hadnt answered the door 
when the parcel was delivered, and that he must have been in the garden at the time the 
delivery person arrived. Mr S also said that his porch was quite hidden from others. 
Chubb maintained its position on declining the claim. So, Mr S referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She noted that 
the policy did say that theft wasnt covered where there was a failure of sufficient care, or the 
item was left unsecured or out of reach. And, she thought that was what had happened in 
this case.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed the insurance policy Mr S has, in order to see what cover is provided to him by 
it. And, I can see that Mr S does have cover for items purchased on his credit card, for 90 
days from the items purchase. But, Im also aware that the policy includes an exclusion, 
which says it will not cover;
Theft of or damage to items where you have failed to take sufficient care of them or have 
left them unsecured or out of your reach.
As above, this is what Chubb has relied on to decline the claim. So, Ive needed to consider 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
Ive thought carefully about this, and I think it did act fairly  and in line with the terms of the 
policy.
I say this because I do think the item was left unsecured and out of Mr S reach. And the 
policy excludes losses when thats the case.
Our investigator noted the whisky was left in the porch when it was delivered. And there is 
no dispute, given the information provided, that this was the case. Ive seen evidence 
detailing the time the item was left in the porch  and a photograph showing the parcel left 
there. Mr S has explained the porch is hidden from others, and he feels the area, and 
therefore the whisky was secured. But I dont agree. 
Ive thought about the ordinary use of the word unsecured, as this isnt defined in the policy 
itself. To secure something is to fix, fasten or make sure that it is difficult for something to be 
moved, lost or stolen. So, if something is unsecured this means the item isnt fixed or 
fastened, and is able to be moved, lost or stolen as a result. In this case, its my 
understanding the parcel was left in an unlocked area, not fixed or locked to anything  so 
passers-by could gain access and pick up the whisky without difficulty  they just needed to 
lift the box and take it with them. Given that I think the item was unsecured at the time of the 
loss, Im satisfied Chubb acted reasonably when considering the parcel was unsecured, and 
in noting the loss wasnt covered under the policy.  
And I do also think the item was out of Mr S reach at the time of the loss. The information 
provided by Mr S and the delivery company suggests the item was on the porch for around 
an hour before Mr S went to look for it. And Mr S has said that he may have been in the 
garden when the parcel was delivered. And that if he was sitting where he usually does, the 
item would have only been one to two metres away from him. But whether Mr S was in the 
garden, or where he usually sits when the loss occurred, the item wasnt in a location so 
near to Mr S that he could reach it  and therefore intercept its theft. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable to for Chubb to say the item was also out of Mr S reach.
Because I think the item was unsecured, and out of reach, I do think Chubb made a 
reasonable decision to decline the claim, because an exclusion in the policy applied, and I 
therefore dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require Chubb European Group SE to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman