DRN-4318689
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the actions of an appointed representative of Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd. He says, in brief, that the appointed representative failed to provide a 
professional advice service in relation to the potential transfer of two defined benefit (DB) 
pensions in 2022. For ease of reading, Ill be referring to Quilter in my decision.
What happened
On 18 January 2022 Mr H asked Quilter to advise him on his two DB pensions: Scheme 1 
and Scheme 2. A fact-find of Mr Hs circumstances and objectives was completed on 
8 February. Scheme 1 provided information in a transfer pack sent on 19 February which 
said Mr H had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of approximately £145,000. This was 
guaranteed until 19 May. Scheme 2 provided its transfer pack on 18 March. It said Mr H had 
a CETV of approximately £553,000 which was guaranteed until 7 June. 
On 22 March, Quilter emailed Mr H to say it had all the information it needed to start its 
analysis. On 12 April, Quilter emailed Mr H to say it had started its analysis but had spotted 
further information (about the State Pension Deduction, or SPD) was needed from Scheme 1 
which, it said, had been requested the previous day. On 25 April, Quilter emailed Mr H to say 
it hadnt heard anything from Scheme 1 and was now getting concerned about the CETV 
deadline. Quilter suggested providing a recommendation on just the transfer of Scheme 2 
which had a later CETV expiry date. To help it do this, it asked for further information from 
Mr H about his mortgage payments, rental income and investments. Mr H provided this 
information on 27 April.
After further chasing from Quilter, Scheme 1 responded on 10 May, saying the SPD 
information requested by Quilter was not applicable in Mr Hs case which was why it hadnt 
been included when it originally sent its transfer pack. It said the CETV deadline wouldnt be 
extended. It then provided the SPD information on 13 May and, a week later, said it had 
extended the CETV deadline to 30 June.
On 30 May, Quilter emailed Mr H to say the advice report had been written but was waiting 
for the business assurance team to sign it off. At that point, the recommendation was to 
transfer. The next day Quilter confirmed to Mr H that its advice report covered both 
Scheme 1 and Scheme 2.
On 7 June (after 5pm), Quilter emailed Mr H to say the business assurance team had not 
approved the recommendation to transfer his pensions. On 10 June, Quilter asked Mr H for 
further information in relation to Mr Hs income and expenditure, including the contribution 
made by Mr Hs partner to the household budget. In response, Mr H questioned (amongst 
other things) why he was being asked for that information so late in the process, why he had 
only been told his recommendation very late on the day one of his CETVs expired and 
whether the decision by the business assurance team was final. On 14 June, Quilter 
attempted to address Mr Hs concerns. It pointed to the delay caused by Scheme 1 sending 
incomplete information in its transfer pack and the one month (from 11 April to 13 May) it 
took Scheme 1 to provide the information once requested. Mr H expressed further concerns 
thereafter, including concerns about how the business assurance team had reached its 
decision. 
On 28 June, Quilter finalised its advice which was to not transfer. Mr H kept his DB pension 
schemes and has now started to receive income from them. 
Mr H formally complained on 20 July 2022. He said, in summary, that Quilter provided an 
unprofessional service, lacked project management skills, outsourced too much data 
gathering to him, didnt properly get to grips with his circumstances and didnt progress 
things in a timely manner meaning he couldnt act before his CETVs expired. 
On 13 September, Quilter responded to Mr Hs complaint. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong, pointing (amongst other things) to the one month that was lost whilst waiting for 
information from Scheme 1. Mr H referred his complaint to us. During the complaints 
process, Quilter sent Mr H further materials relating to his case which has added to his 
concerns. I also note that Mr H has told us he feels he was forced into taking benefits from 
his DB schemes and that his plans for accessing his assets had been left in ruin. This 
suggests he wanted to transfer and would have done so if Quilter had been more prompt. 
Our investigator thought Quilter had taken too long to advise Mr H and this would have 
caused him distress and inconvenience. He awarded £400 in recognition of this. But he 
didnt think Quilter had caused a financial loss to Mr H. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
To begin with I think its worth noting that Quilter did cause delays here. For instance:
Quilter had all the information it needed to start work on Mr Hs advice on 18 March, 
which is when both schemes had provided their transfer packs. Quilter confirmed to 
Mr H on 22 March that it had enough to collate the reports. But it wasnt until 11 April 
that Quilter requested missing information from Scheme 1. This was too long in my 
opinion, especially when one considers the transfer pack for Scheme 1 had been sent 
even earlier  on 19 February. 
Scheme 1 didnt provide the requested information until 13 May, by which point Quilter 
had already started to draft its recommendations report on just Scheme 2. Scheme 1 
ultimately extended its CETV deadline, prompting Quilter to redraft its report so as to 
account for both schemes. Whilst I recognise Quilter chased Scheme 1, its reasonable 
to conclude that any redrafting, and the additional delays this caused, could have been 
avoided had the missing information been identified earlier. 
Quilters initial advice was overturned by the business assurance team. Whilst its 
obviously better for errors to be picked up and correct advice given, it strikes me that the 
failings were quite significant here. Addressing all these can only have extended the 
advice process and done so just as deadlines were becoming tight. I think its 
reasonable to say some of the remedial work would have been avoided had Quilter 
been more proficient in dealing with Mr Hs case. 
Quilter has acknowledged the turnaround times for the business assurance team were 
longer than usual.After its initial advice had been overturned, Quilter went back to Mr H for more 
information; the inference being that the decision wasnt final and further information 
could swing the recommendation the other way. That being so, the information  which 
must have been deemed significant  should, reasonably, have been requested earlier 
in the process.
My intention here isnt to catalogue everything that might have gone wrong or could be 
deemed a delay. Advising on DB pensions is a complex matter. Gathering the necessary 
information is often an iterative process and will, realistically, take time and involve 
cooperation from third parties. I also need to be mindful that a small delay at the beginning of 
the process is unlikely to derail things in the way it would when deadlines are fast-
approaching. More helpful, therefore, is to highlight  as I have done  delays that appear to 
have been more out of the ordinary, avoidable, and material enough to have contributed to 
CETV deadlines being missed. 
With all the above in mind, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude Quilter could have 
given its recommendation ahead of 7 June 2022, which is when the first (and largest) CETV 
expired, and certainly before 28 June which is when it finally advised Mr H. In coming to this 
conclusion, I recognise other parties also contributed to the delay, most notably Scheme 1 
which took over a month to respond to an information request. However, my role here is to 
look at Quilters actions. And Im satisfied that, but for Quilters actions, Mr H would have 
been advised before 7 June. 
However, Im not persuaded Mr H has suffered a financial loss as a result of Quilters 
actions. Even though Mr H may well feel Quilters actions prevented him cashing in his DB 
benefits at a high point (and I recognise Mr H feels he had other reasons for transferring), his 
CETVs represented the cost of replacing those DB benefits. As Mr H is actually receiving 
those benefits anyway, he is, financially speaking, no worse off. Or, to put it another way, 
Mr H would be put into a better position than he otherwise would have been in if he has both 
his DB benefits and compensation to account for the higher CETVs he says he missed out 
on. Besides, whilst I recognise Mr H would have had time to consider his options ahead of 
his CETVs expiring had Quilter acted more promptly, Im not persuaded he would have 
transferred as a result. Arranging a transfer despite it being inadvisable to do so doesnt 
strike me as being a particularly likely step for a reasonable person to take. Most reasonable 
people wouldnt, ordinarily, take action that is deemed detrimental to their interests in this 
way. Im not persuaded Mr H would have been any different.
Mr H also argues that he should be compensated for the fee he paid Quilter because that 
fee was for a failed service. I disagree. Im satisfied the advice  when it eventually came  
was thorough. The fact that it went through a detailed quality assurance process would 
suggest as much. I recognise Mr Hs point that the recommendation was late. But this 
doesnt negate its key messages because he was told he shouldnt transfer which is advice 
that would have been valid at the time it was given and subsequently as lower CETVs would 
typically make a transfer even less viable.
That said, Quilters actions as the deadline for the Scheme 2 CETV guarantee period 
approached would have been distressing for Mr H. On 30 May Quilter told Mr H that its 
recommendation was being checked by the business assurance team. The email indicated 
that the recommendation was to transfer (which indeed it was at that point) because it said 
Quilter had already checked with the administrators of Scheme 2 and it was confident the 
transfer could be completed ahead of the 7 June deadline. But on 7 June, Quilter emailed 
Mr H to say that the business assurance team had not approved the recommendation to 
transfer, followed by an email to Mr H on 10 June requesting further information which 
suggested the decision wasnt final. But, of course, by then the Scheme 2 CETV had 
expired. And Quilters advice didnt come until the end of June, just before the expiry of the Scheme 1 CETV.
So Mr H would have been under the impression in the first week of June that his pensions 
were, likely, to be transferred. But I think he would have been concerned at the apparent 
lack of progress in that week, especially as it was the largest CETV that was about to expire. 
I think he would have been alarmed at Quilters volte-face on 7 June and bemused  at best 
 to be asked further questions which he should reasonably have been asked previously. 
And, of course, by that point the CETV had expired so even if the advice was, ultimately, to 
transfer Mr H would have thought he was potentially facing the invidious position of 
transferring with a lower CETV. The uncertainty wasnt brought to a close until 28 June, 
which is when Quilter, categorically, advised Mr H to not transfer. But this only came just 
before the other (extended) CETV guarantee period ended. Add into the mix Mr Hs reduced 
faith in his adviser  which was understandable given he had just been told his original 
recommendation had failed a quality assurance process  and Im satisfied Quilter caused 
Mr H distress and inconvenience here. 
Nevertheless, I think Mr Hs distress and inconvenience was short term in nature  
essentially just June 2022. Prior to that point, given what he knew at the time, I see no 
persuasive reason why Mr H would have considered the advice process had gone 
significantly awry. And after that point, Mr H would have been aware that he shouldnt 
transfer. So missing any CETV guarantee periods ought, reasonably, have been of minimal 
concern to Mr H from that point onwards as the transfer was deemed an unsuitable course 
of action to pursue. 
With all this in mind, Im satisfied a distress and inconvenience payment of £400 is fair and 
reasonable. I recognise Mr H considers this insulting and, in support of his argument, he has 
pointed me towards this Services approach to such awards as well as his own comments on 
the impact the events had, and continue to have, on him. Ive considered everything he has 
said, and Im sympathetic to what he describes. But, as I say, I think Quilters actions  
somewhat shambolic though they were in places  can only realistically have impacted him 
for a limited period. 
Mr H has also pointed to what he considers to be the relevant considerations when this 
Service looks at any case, which he lists as being: the law, the regulators rules and 
guidance, and what the ombudsman considers good industry practice. He suggests the 
investigator didnt take these into account, specifically in relation to his concerns about 
resourcing levels at Quilter and the competency of the adviser in question. As Im sure Mr H 
will appreciate, our role is to look at Quilters actions in this specific case. The root cause of 
those actions, and the way Quilter manages its business, isnt something we need to 
address or can realistically address in an individual complaint. Mr Hs comments also 
suggest he wants to see a catalogue of misdemeanours, the compiling of which would, 
presumably, point to a different outcome to the complaint than the one proposed by the 
investigator. I can assure Mr H that I have considered everything in line with my remit, as 
laid out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook (most notably, 
given Mr Hs comments, DISP 3.6.4R). Its also worth noting our role isnt to punish or fine a 
business for each breach of the rules they make.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint because I think Quilters 
actions caused him distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied £400 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to pay for this. But I dont think Quilter has to take any further action to put things 
right for Mr H.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd must 
pay Mr H £400 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman