DRN-4071453
The complaint
Mr B complains American International Group UK Limited (AIG) told him it would contribute 
towards his loss of earnings but then didnt. 
What happened
Mr B has a gadget insurance policy with AIG. 
Mr B had a problem with his mobile phone and so he made a claim on his gadget insurance 
policy. 
Mr B was sent five different handsets in an attempt to resolve the issue. Each time the 
replacement handset was faulty. And every time a new handset was sent to him Mr B had to 
take time off work to be at home in order to receive it. 
Mr B received a letter from AIG confirming it would contribute towards his loss of earnings if 
he provided evidence of the loss. AIG then told Mr B it wouldnt pay him anything in respect 
of the loss of earnings. Mr B wasnt happy with the conflicting information received and so he 
complained to AIG. 
AIG said the claim handlers Mr B spoke to throughout the life of the claim had not explained 
the process thoroughly. And as a result Mr B received conflicting information. AIG 
apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid Mr B £35 in recognition of this. Mr B was 
also offered a further £105 by way of an apology for the number of handsets that were sent 
to him during the course of the claim. This amount was not paid to Mr B due to a system 
error.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from AIG and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Before our investigator looked into the complaint AIG revised its offer of 
compensation to £345 as its original offer wasnt paid. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs 
complaint and said he thought AIGs offer was reasonable for the overall impact of the 
service Mr B received. 
Mr B said given the amount of money and time hes lost dealing with the matter he didnt 
agree with the investigators outcome. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr B feels very strongly that AIG should increase the compensation offered. I 
recognise he feels let down by the service he has received and I can understand his 
frustration. Its important to note our service doesnt regulate or punish businesses. AIG has 
acknowledged there were failings in the service it provided to Mr B. So what Ive needed to 
consider is whether the compensation offered is fair. 
AIG hasnt explained why it sent out five faulty handsets, or why Mr B was given conflicting 
information about receiving a cash settlement and claiming his loss of earnings. I can accept 
it might be necessary for a consumer to need to take one or two days off to fix a problem. 
But Mr B had to take at least five days off. So I think the inconvenience and consequential 
loss was more than might be expected. And I think it must have been very frustrating for him 
to take the time off and have the inconvenience of staying in to receive a phone that was 
then faulty. 
AIG has accepted the failure in service. The issue here is whether the compensation offered 
was reasonable. And based on what Ive seen I think it was and is broadly in line with the 
awards which we make for trouble and upset as set out on our website. So taking everything 
into account Im satisfied AIG has attempted to resolve Mr Bs complaint fairly. 
Compensation 
AIG has accepted the service fell below what would be expected and has offered Mr B £345 
to reflect this. Ive thought carefully about the offer and consider it is reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested, had an offer not already been 
made.
Putting things right
American International Group UK Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr B £345 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my decision is that American International Group UK 
Limited should pay Mr B £345.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman