DRN-3301840
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied for damages when he returned a car.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr G acquired a new car using a hire agreement provided by MBFS. The 
contract came to an end, and in October 2021 the car was collected and an initial inspection 
carried out. A couple of days later a further inspection of the car took place.
Following this, Mr G was sent an invoice for various damage to the car. He complained to 
MBFS as he was unhappy with the charges. In November 2021 MBFS issued its final 
response. It said it had reviewed the photos and evidence from the inspection and said the 
following damage was outside of its Vehicle Return Standards (VRS):
LHR alloy £110
LHR alloy £110
RHR alloy £110
Bumper LHF chrome moulding dented £63.10
MBFS said it was removing a charge for a RHR quarter panel. So, it said Mr Gs balance 
was now £653.10. I should note that although it wasnt mentioned in the final response, this 
figure included a charge of £260 for a dent to the bonnet. 
Mr G remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. He said the dent 
to the bonnet wasnt there when he left the car and wasnt picked up on the initial inspection.
Mr G later told us he accepted all of the damage to the car apart from the charge for the 
bonnet.
Our investigator issued an opinion and said he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, that he thought the damage to the bonnet fell outside of fair wear and 
tear guidelines, so it was reasonable for MBFS to charge for this.
Mr G didnt agree. He said having looked at the photo of the damage he couldnt tell what 
the photo was of. And he said the videos from the inspection didnt highlight the issue. Our 
investigator said this didnt change his opinion. Mr G remained unhappy and said he thought 
the damage wasnt present at the first inspection. 
So, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr G complains about charges applied at the end of a hire agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can look into 
Mr Gs complaint against MBFS.
What I need to consider here is whether the damage to the car falls outside of fair wear and 
tear guidance. If I think it does, I then need to think about whether its fair to charge Mr G for 
this under the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr G for damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr G agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
So, Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
Mr G has now accepted the outstanding charges apart from the bonnet. So, Ill only consider 
the bonnet here in my decision. 
In relation to dents on bodywork the VRS says the following is not acceptable:
Dents on high profile panels i.e. bonnets
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Looking at the photos from the inspection, I can see a clear dent. This has obviously broken 
the paint surface. It follows that Im satisfied this damage falls outside of fair wear and tear 
on both sets of guidance.
I appreciate Mr Gs point that looking at a photo he pointed out, in complete isolation, you 
cant tell what part of the car the photo is of. But, the photo is labelled Component: Bonnet. 
So, on balance Im satisfied it is of the bonnet.
Ive considered that the full damage to the bonnet wasnt noted in the first inspection. But, 
the second inspection involved a more detailed look at the car. So, Im not surprised this was 
the case. And I dont think this means the damage wasnt present at the time of the first 
inspection.
Mr G has told us he thinks the damage may have occurred after he handed the car back. 
But, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence, such as any photos of the car when he had it, to show the condition of the bonnet prior to the inspections. Without further evidence, 
I think its most likely the damage occurred at some point during the four years Mr G had the 
car, rather than the two days between the car being collected and the second inspection.
Ive also thought about what Mr G said about the fact that the damage is not highlighted in 
the videos of the car. Ive watched the videos from the first and second inspections. And, I 
appreciate the bonnet isnt focused on. But, the videos are a brief walkaround of the car. 
So, I wouldnt have expected these to focus on the bonnet. And, either way, the key thing is 
that photos do show the damage. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
I want to reassure Mr G that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. But, thinking about everything Im satisfied the damage to the bonnet fell 
outside of fair wear and tear guidance and most likely occurred when Mr G had the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman