DRN-2458456
The complaint
Ms W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc took three days to return an 
overpayment on her redeemed mortgage account, rather than returning the funds 
immediately under the Direct Debit Guarantee (the Guarantee).
The complaint has been brought by on behalf of Ms W by her father.
What happened
Ms W sold her property and redeemed her NatWest mortgage on Friday 28 June 2019.
Her direct debit of £201.06 was collected on Monday 1 July. On 2 July Ms Ws father 
contacted NatWest to request the payment be returned under the Guarantee. As he was 
unhappy with NatWests response Ms Ws father made a complaint as he was told a refund 
would take a few days rather than being eligible to be returned immediately under the 
Guarantee. The following day Ms Ws father emailed the chief executive officer of The Royal 
Bank of Scotland group.
The money was back in Ms Ws current account on 4 July.
NatWest didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint, explaining that the payment wasnt taken in error 
and therefore the refund was correctly processed.
Our investigator said NatWest hadnt done anything wrong. Ms Ws father didnt agree and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, this complaint has come about due to a misunderstanding on the part 
of Ms Ws father of normal mortgage process. Thats understandable, I wouldnt expect him 
to be aware of that, so I hope my explanation will put his mind at ease that NatWest didnt do 
anything wrong here.
Its completely normal when a mortgage is due to be redeemed for the direct debit to remain 
in place until its confirmed that the debt has been repaid in full, and the redemption funds 
have cleared. The direct debit collection process actually starts a few days before the 
payment is taken. This is why when you try to vary  or cancel  a direct debit theres a 
warning that if the payment is due to be collected in the next few days then it may be too late 
for the change to take effect.
This means that whilst the payment was collected on Monday 1 July, it had actually been 
called for in the week ending 28 June, that is before the mortgage was repaid. At the point 
the payment was called for (before completion) NatWest had no way of knowing completion 
would actually happen therefore the payment wasnt collected in error. This is explained on 
the redemption statement that was issued:
Please note that if your regular direct debit is due to be collected within 4 days after the 
actual redemption of your mortgage account, this payment will still be collected. Any 
overpayments after redemption will be refunded to your bank account.
As the payment wasnt collected in error then the Guarantee is irrelevant. The Guarantee is 
only used for payment errors, and this payment wasnt an error however much Ms Ws father 
may believe it was. The payment was part of the normal redemption process and was dealt 
with - as many lenders do on many redeemed mortgage accounts day-in-day-out - by 
reconciling the redeemed account and refunding any overpayments back to the borrower in 
line with the lenders normal service standards. The Guarantee simply isnt relevant here as 
an error wasnt made by NatWest.
The payment was taken on 1 July and was back in Ms Ws account on 4 July. Even if this 
was an error  which it wasnt  there was no financial loss to Ms W as the payment didnt 
take her into an overdraft, and the account the payment was taken from was non-interest 
bearing so there was no loss of interest. This wasnt a day-to-day account so Ms W wasnt 
left struggling due to not having the money.
Having considered everything Im satisfied there were no errors here by NatWest, and it 
acted entirely in line with normal industry practice and how I would expect in situations like 
this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman