DRN-3136264
The complaint
Mr A complains about what happened when he tried to transfer funds out of an investment 
account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr A decided to sell the shares in his investment account with the intention of 
transferring the funds to another provider. Mr A successfully transferred £5,000 to his current 
account with HSBC but later when he tried to transfer the rest of the funds, some £76,000, 
his investment account seemed blocked and no other transfers could be made.  
Mr A tried telephoning HSBC several times to make the transfers but wasnt able to get 
through. A few days later Mr A managed to speak to HSBC about the problem and the funds 
were transferred. 
Mr A complained saying the delay had caused him a financial loss elsewhere. HSBC looked 
into things and said they werent responsible for any financial loss, but they did pay him £100 
as the transfer agreed over the telephone took one day longer than it should have.  
Remaining unhappy Mr A brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators considered what happened. They thought HSBC hadnt acted unfairly and 
explained that the telephone number Mr A had initially tried to call was a textphone number 
and not a customer service number. They said that a block was put on the account due to 
the size of the withdrawals being over the limit allowed. They also thought the £100 was 
reasonable for the days delay in making the transfer which had been agreed over the phone.
Mr A disagreed raising questions about the telephone number called, and the reasons why 
the transfers werent allowed. Our investigator considered this and also provided Mr A with 
screenshots from HSBC showing what they say wouldve been displayed on his account, 
including the telephone numbers, when he was prompted to call them. Mr A said the 
screenshots were made up and not what appeared to him at the time. Because Mr A and our 
Investigator couldnt come to an agreement the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr A that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. Our Investigator went into a 
lot of detail about what happened when discussing the complaint with Mr A so I wont repeat 
everything here, but will concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr A as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint which is about the inability for him to 
transfer from his account, and problems he had when contacting HSBC about this.
Where the information and testimony about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened.
The initial transfers
HSBC have a limit on the value of transfers which can be made from an investment account 
like Mr A was trying to do. This limit is in place for security and fraud prevention. 
The first transfer for £5,000 was under this limit so was processed. The second transfer Mr A 
requested was for the remaining funds in the account and was substantially over the limit by 
some multiples. Because of this HSBC stopped any further transfers from the account. I 
understand this was very frustrating for Mr A who continued to attempt transfers of different 
amounts. However these werent possible as the security restriction stopped transfers of any 
value being made. 
The terms and conditions of the account allow for such restrictions and I think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to be applied, especially considering the values involved.
The warning displayed
When Mr A attempted the second transfer a warning message was displayed with 
information about contacting HSBC.
HSBC has supplied screenshots of the warnings they say were displayed. Mr A has seen 
these warnings and says they were not what he saw, and he thinks they are made up or 
have been fixed after the fact. Understandably Mr A doesnt have any screen shots of his 
own showing what he says he saw at the time as I dont think he wouldve had any reason to 
keep a record.
Looking at the information I think, on the balance of probabilities, that these screenshots of 
warnings provided by HSBC were the ones displayed. And Im satisfied they include 
telephone contact details for HSBC and the opening hours.
The telephone calls
When contacting HSBC Mr A called a textphone number (which is for customers with 
hearing or speech problems) rather than the customer service number, and this is the 
reason he couldnt get through. Both of these numbers are provided on the warning I think 
was displayed.
I cant say why Mr A called the textphone, but evidence hes provided show this is what 
happened. So I cant say that HSBC did anything wrong as the number Mr A was calling 
doesnt accept incoming telephone calls. The correct customer service number is on the 
website, in the terms and conditions of the account, and in the warning displayed. 
Mr A raised questions about the textphone number asking if it had changed prior, or after, 
what happened, but Ive seen no evidence this is the case. Ive also not seen any evidence 
that the customer service number was called on the day Mr A was trying to make contact.
The final transferA few days after the initial problem Mr A spoke with HSBC who agreed to process a transfer 
for the remaining funds in the account. HSBC said the transfer would be made that day, 
however there was a delay and the funds werent actually sent until the next day. HSBC 
apologised for this and paid Mr A £100.
Looking at what happened I think the £100 is a fair and reasonable way of resolving what 
happened with the transfer being delayed one day. 
I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for any loss Mr A says he suffered 
elsewhere. Mr A has told us that initially he wasnt in a hurry for the money and only chased 
things up when the value of his investments elsewhere changed. 
Having carefully considered all the circumstances Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr A so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman