DRN-1744532
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) sent incorrect, adverse data to credit 
reference agencies (CRA) when she cancelled her insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C had buildings insurance with UKI. She ended the policy and paid the remaining 
balance on her account. But UKI didnt send the correct information to the CRA meaning a 
default was recorded on Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C wasnt aware of the error until 15 months later when her mortgage application was 
declined. The bank told her it was declined because of her credit file. Mrs C got a copy of her 
file and noticed that the final balance on her buildings insurance with UKI still showed as 
outstanding.
When she complained to UKI, it apologised and explained that the way it processed the 
payment meant it wasnt showing as settled in its report to the CRA. UKI fixed the system 
problem, sent corrected information to the CRA, and paid Mrs C £100 as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs C didnt think the payment was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that UKI had acknowledged its 
mistake and tried to fix the problem straight away. While she acknowledged the mistake UKI 
had made, and the resulting distress to Mrs C of reapplying for a mortgage, our investigator 
didnt think that Mrs C had experienced any financial loss. The house purchase still went 
through, albeit several weeks later, and UKI fixed the problem.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said that although she didnt experience any significant financial 
loss, UKI caused her inconvenience and stress at a time when she shouldve been enjoying 
the public holidays.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. While I understand that she will be 
disappointed, I cant see any reason to increase the amount of compensation already paid. 
Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that UKI sent incorrect data to the CRA relating to the closing balance of 
Mrs Cs buildings insurance policy. Mrs C says the mortgage lender declined to offer her a 
mortgage because of her credit file and I have no reason to doubt that. However, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the mortgage lender declined Mrs Cs application only 
because of UKIs information. That said, I dont think it matters here. Thats because Mrs C 
obtained a mortgage from a different lender and the house purchase went through, albeit a 
little later than she had hoped for. So the issue Im looking at is the inconvenience and 
distress caused rather than what couldve happened.
UKI acknowledged its mistake and corrected it. By way of apology it paid Mrs C £100, but 
she didnt think that was enough to recognise the embarrassment, distress and 
inconvenience she experienced over the Christmas period and while she was on holiday. 
She asked for compensation of £1500. I can understand that it mustve been a worrying time 
for Mrs C, especially as moving home is already a stressful event for most people. But its 
important for me to consider that UKI immediately accepted its mistake and told Mrs C it 
would fix it. So while the credit file was incorrect for around 15 months, the matter only 
impacted Mrs C directly from the time she became aware of it until her mortgage application 
was accepted. 
As UKI admitted its mistake and promised to fix it, Mrs C wouldve been aware that it was 
working towards correcting it. So I dont think there wouldve been any additional or lasting 
concern about the accuracy of the credit file. 
So, given the relatively short time that the credit file was incorrect and directly affecting Mrs 
C, I think the £100 compensation already paid is a fair amount to address the mistake made. 
I cant see any reason to ask UKI to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman