DRN-2036215
The complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) made errors in 
applying lump sum payments to his hire purchase agreement, causing him financial loss and 
inconvenience.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new car 
costing just over £66,000. Mr K made an advance payment of £3,000 and his monthly 
payments were to be a little over £950. The agreement was to run for 47 months.
In July 2019 Mr K wanted to make two payments  of £10,000 and £20,000  to reduce the 
total outstanding under the hire purchase agreement. That in turn would reduce his monthly 
payments. However, due to an error on the part of VWFS, the £20,000 payment was applied 
twice, so the account was showing as being £20,000 in arrears. 
VWFS acknowledged its mistake but was unable to correct the error without reloading the 
hire purchase agreement. In effect, it had to prepare a fresh agreement, replicating as far as 
possible the March 2019 agreement. 
Mr K signed a new agreement, for the same car, in November 2019. The cash price for the 
car was just under £61,000, which by this point was of course used and had recorded 3,000 
miles. The monthly payments were the same as they had been in the March 2019 
agreement and the agreement was to run for 43 months.
VWFS also offered Mr K £750 compensation for the trouble to which he had been put. 
Mr K didnt feel that VWFS had done enough to put things right and referred the matter to 
this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He thought however that the steps 
VWFS had taken were sufficient and didnt recommend it do any more. Mr K didnt accept 
the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.  
VWFS accepts that it made errors when Mr K tried to make lump sum payments to his 
account in July 2019. The issue I must consider is, therefore, whether it has done enough to 
correct those mistakes. 
Whilst it was not an ideal solution, I accept that, for practical purposes, VWFS needed to 
prepare a further hire purchase agreement. The intention was, as far as possible, to put Mr K 
in the position he would have been in had no error been made. 
The second agreement was not identical to the first. The monthly payments were the same 
and, once the lump sum payments had been re-applied (correctly this time), they fell to 
£125.15. The total amount due under the second agreement (were it to run its full course) 
was some £6,800 less than under the first agreement; but for a few pence, that reflected 
however the advance payment of £3,000 and the monthly payments Mr K had made under 
the first agreement. The interest rate under the second agreement was marginally lower. Mr 
K paid the full monthly payments of just over £950 while the matter was resolved, but those 
payments reduced the balance due and are therefore reflected in the reduced payments. 
Mr K has also pointed out that the second agreement will end a few months after the original 
end date of the first agreement. That might affect the cars value at the end of the term. 
Given the car would be around four years old in any event, Im not persuaded any difference 
will be significant; it will also depend on other factors too, such as the mileage and condition 
of the car. Further, Mr K does not have to keep the car for the full term of the hire purchase 
agreement. Once he has paid more than half the amount due under the agreement, he can 
return the car without paying any more; he could therefore return it at the planned end of the 
first agreement.
Mr K has been put to significant inconvenience as a result of VWFSs error and should 
receive compensation for that. I think however that the offer of £750 is reasonable in the 
circumstances and I simply leave it to Mr K to decide whether, on reflection, he wishes to 
accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman