DRN-3250948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt settled a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a bank account. The 
insurer was AXA.
Mr and Mrs J had booked flights abroad and they were due to stay at their timeshare 
property between 26 January and 2 March 2021. However, the flights were cancelled in 
early January 2021. Mr and Mrs J say they cancelled their trip due to the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advice, and because of the lockdown announced by the UK 
government.
Mr and Mrs J received a refund for the flights, but not for their timeshare costs. So, they 
made a claim to AXA. AXA said that while Mr and Mrs Js policy provided cover for travel 
disruption, this section excluded cover for accommodation costs paid using any Timeshare, 
Holiday Property Bond or other holiday points scheme.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with AXAs decision. They say that AXA should consider the claim 
under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of the policy, and this section doesnt 
specifically exclude timeshare costs. Additionally, they also say the exclusion AXA has relied 
on is ambiguous. In short, Mr and Mrs J say this ambiguity means this exclusion only applies 
to timeshare points schemes (or timeshare clubs), rather than timeshare ownership  which 
is what Mr and Mrs J have.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Having done so, she didnt 
think AXA had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. She said the Cancellation 
and Curtailment section of the policy only provided cover where a government directive 
prohibiting all travel to the country came into force after the policyholder left the UK. This 
section also specifically excluded cover where the FCDO advice against travel was due to a 
pandemic.
Our investigator noted the travel disruption section of the policy excluded cover for 
accommodation costs paid for using any timeshare. She didnt think the term was 
ambiguous. Additionally, our investigator noted the timeshare accommodation costs were 
maintenance fees. So, she didnt think these could fairly be said to relate to Mr and Mrs Js 
holiday, as they had to pay them whether they used the property or not.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they didnt think what 
she had said was fair, because policy wording is always strictly applied by insurance 
companies. And they dont think AXA has done that in their situation due to the wording of 
the timeshare exclusion. They also said AXA has since updated the wording of this 
exclusion. Mr and Mrs J also say the maintenance fees they pay are virtually the same as 
accommodation charges by, for example, hotels.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
AXA considered Mr and Mrs Js claim under the travel disruption section. And this section 
excludes the following:
7. Accommodation costs paid for using any Timeshare, Holiday Property Bond or other 
holiday points scheme
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs J say about how the above exclusion should be 
interpreted. But I dont agree. I dont think the above term is ambiguous with regards to what 
type of timeshare costs are excluded. So, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relying on this exclusion.
I dont think I need to decide if the situation Mr and Mrs J found themselves in is an insured 
event under any other section of their policy. This is because it seems to me that the annual 
maintenance fee for the timeshare property isnt specifically part of the unused or pre-paid 
accommodation cost of their holiday. Rather, its the annual amount Mr and Mrs J are 
contracted to pay their timeshare resort each year, even if they dont make use of the 
timeshare property.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, but I dont think AXA has done anything wrong by 
declining their claim. This is because the costs theyre claiming for arent covered by their 
travel insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman