DRN-2371287
The complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1996. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. There is no longer a copy of the actual credit agreement that Mr M signed, 
which I dont find unreasonable considering the amount of time that has passed since the 
sale. But Lloyds has given me a sample agreement, and I think its likely this represents 
what Mr M would have seen at the time. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that 
gave Mr M the option to tick a yes or no box, and it listed the PPI as an optional 
insurance. So, on balance, I think its more likely Mr M was aware it was optional and 
not a condition of the loan. 
It isnt clear if Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M as there are no notes in relation to 
this, and Mr M cant recall if he received advice. To be fair to Mr M, Ive treated the sale 
as if it was advised because Lloyds had to do more to make sure it was right for him. The 
evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr M was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have any means to fall back on, so he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr M says he had medical conditions some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because hes firstly mentioned back problems that he had 
around 23 years before the sale, and he cant remember if these were still affecting him 
at the time of the sale. Similarly, hes mentioned being affected by depression around 14 
years before the sale but again cant confirm if this was still an issue at the time of the 
sale. Due to the length of time between when these conditions first arose and because 
Mr M cant recall how they affected his day to day life at the time of the sale, I cant 
safely say this made the recommendation of the policy as a whole unsuitable for him. 
Also, there were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and/or back 
problems within the policy.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the 
cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman