DRN-3117969
The complaint
Miss B complained that a settlement offer made by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) was unfair for her possessions she had insured whilst held in storage. 
What happened
Miss Bs possessions were water damaged when the ceiling collapsed in a storage unit. 
Miss B immediately made a claim on her policy / licence and RSA appointed a contractor to 
validate the damage and manage the claim. Miss B said she submitted claim information 
along with photographs of the damage. Miss Bs claim was for £1,603.
Miss B said she felt throughout the process the contractor asked unnecessary questions to 
delay the process. The contractor made an offer for the damaged goods of £559, which was 
rejected by Miss B. Miss B said she was insured for up to £2,000 for the full replacement 
value of her possessions. Miss B was also unhappy that by choosing the storage facility 
meant she was obligated to take out insurance with RSA.
RSA said, it is not simply the case that you can claim up to the full declared value if the 
actual new replacement cost of everything you were storing was more than that. RSAs 
contractor asked Miss B to provide the approximate new replacement cost of all the 
unaffected items she was storing in the unit. As Miss B didnt provide this information, RSA 
were unable to calculate an accurate settlement amount. However, RSA decided to increase 
the offer as a gesture of goodwill to £1,000.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought RSA made a fair offer in 
the absence of Miss B providing it with the relevant information to calculate the settlement 
value. Miss B disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B said she was unhappy that she felt obligated to take out insurance with RSA on the 
storage unit. As this was an arrangement set-up by the organisation renting out the storage 
unit, I cant consider this action in my decision as this complaint is set-up against RSA. 
However, for Miss Bs information, I dont think this arrangement is unusual for storage units, 
its an efficient way for insurance to be arranged across the whole storage unit and for 
customers to benefit from cheaper insurance. I dont think Miss B has been disadvantaged 
from this arrangement.
RSA has shared its calculation for its initial settlement offer of £559. However, it has asked 
Miss B to provide information of the unaffected items held in storage. I think its reasonable 
for RSA to ask for this information as part of the validation of the claim. Its checking Miss B 
hasnt underinsured her possessions. An insurer sets a premium (the price of a policy) 
based upon the risk its taking on by insuring a policyholders possessions. On the policy / 
licence, Miss B will have signed a declaration that stated I confirm that the maximum as 
new replacement value of my items will not exceed £2000.00 and it is my responsibility to 
inform [the storage company] in writing if my items exceed this declared value, see 
underinsurance conditions 5 & 6 on the Insurance Cover Information Document & 
Declaration. If Miss Bs contents was worth more than £2,000, then the risk RSA wouldve 
been exposed to wouldve been higher than the policy was intended for.
I have checked the underinsurance conditions. Clause 6 reads in respect of all other 
property, if you fail to declare the new replacement value of your property being stored, in 
the event of a claim you shall only be entitled to recover in settlement the proportion of the 
loss as the value declared bears to the new replacement value of all property being stored.
RSA hasnt paid the full value of Miss Bs claim as she hasnt provided the necessary 
information to it to validate the claim and calculate an accurate settlement offer. Its not 
enough for Miss B to confirm her possessions stored were worth £2,000. Miss B needs to 
provide RSA with the information it has asked for, which is a list of the undamaged items and 
an estimated replacement value for them. RSA did increase its offer to £1,000 as a goodwill 
gesture. In the circumstances of this claim, I think this is fair as it hasnt been provided the 
necessary information to arrive at a more accurate settlement value. Miss B can still accept 
RSAs offer or alternatively provide the information that RSA requested to allow it to re-
consider the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore. Miss B can still accept RSAs offer or alternatively provide 
the information that RSA requested to allow it to re-consider the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman