DRN-3051830
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, has complained about the transfer of his benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a person pension plan. It says Mr P was advised to 
transfer by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA) and another financial business (which Ill call 
Firm A).
Mr Ps representative considers that the advice provided to Mr P was flawed and has 
resulted in him suffering a financial loss.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, and therefore I have only 
summarised them below.
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr P became concerned at the possibility of his pension moving into the PPF and the 
announcement of BSPS2. He has said that there were a lot of worrying rumours amongst 
BSPS members and he was unsure of his options and what to do for the best. Mr P said he 
was also concerned about income while his wife was looking for another job. It was for these 
reasons he sought advice from SKA. 
Mr P initially met with SKA in February 2017. Mr Ps circumstances and objectives were 
recorded in a fact find and his attitude to investment risk was assessed. SKA didnt have the 
necessary permissions to advise Mr P on the pension transfer, so it referred him to Firm A 
and provided it with the information it had collected about Mr P at that time.
Firm A subsequently advised Mr P to transfer from BSPS to a personal pension plan with a 
provider I will call Firm C. Mr P accepted this recommendation.
The transfer was made in March 2017 and servicing of the personal pension plan was 
transferred to SKA in April 2017. From then on SKA provided Mr P with regular ongoing 
advice.
In May 2020, Mr P, through his representative, complained about the advice to SKA and 
Firm A. SKA didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it hadnt provided transfer advice to 
Mr P. 
Mr Ps representative referred his complaint to our service, saying SKA should be held
liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between SKA and Firm A. The
representative said Mr P had been verbally advised to transfer by SKA and that the
transfer of his BSPS benefits wouldnt have taken place if SKA had met all of its regulatory 
obligations. 
One of our investigators considered things but didnt agree. He wasnt persuaded that SKA 
had given Mr P any advice to transfer or that Mr P had relied on such advice. He didnt think 
SKAs actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr P to Firm A and so it couldnt be held 
responsible for any losses due to unsuitable advice to transfer out of BSPS.
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr P 
and SKA have about this matter. Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support 
their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that has been 
provided to this service in respect of this complaint. However, I hope neither party will take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised, but 
to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches
either; thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My 
role is to decide if SKA has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for 
any losses for which SKA is responsible.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
The testimonies provided by Mr P and SKA are quite different. Mr Ps position is that
SKA played a key role in the pension transfer process because it verbally told him to
transfer before introducing him to Firm A. But SKA disputes this and says that it didnt
advise Mr P about the merits or otherwise of transferring because it didnt have the
necessary regulatory permissions to do so  which is why it introduced him to Firm A. It says
its role in the transaction was merely as an introducer to Firm A and that it only gave him
advice on his funds after the transfer had been completed.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its not in dispute that SKA didnt have the necessary permission to advise on pension 
transfers. Firm A, on the other hand did. And I note that the BSPS wouldnt have allowed the 
transfer to proceed if the request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So 
although Ive noted the comments of Mr Ps representative relating to statements made by 
SKA in support of the transfer, there is no documentary evidence in this complaint that it 
advised Mr P to transfer. Mr Ps representative says SKA breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr P fairly, act 
with care, have due regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interest when 
dealing with Firm A.  But SKA didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a 
pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to advise Mr P not to transfer. When a firm 
doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to 
refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Ps representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after SKA referred them to Firm A. However, even if this was the case, I think 
on balance its more likely SKA referred customers to Firm A on the understanding that it 
would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm A would recommend a 
transfer whether it was suitable or not.  
Its not reasonable to expect a firm - who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice - to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think SKA were allowed to rely on Firm A, who were 
regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, to 
provide suitable advice. In any event, it would seem contradictory to say on the one hand 
that SKA couldnt advise on the defined benefit transfer, while on the other suggesting it 
should have identified faults in the advice of a separate, authorised firm, that was permitted 
to provide such advice.
Mr Ps representative says that even if SKA didnt provide advice, they can still be held 
responsible because but for the introduction to Firm A, Mr P wouldnt have transferred his 
pension. Its said there was a joint venture between the two firms and referenced a previous 
decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers supports its argument 
that SKA should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm A.  
Ive thought about this, but an introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in the 
regulators Dispute Resolution rules. And ultimately, Mr P transferred his pension benefits 
after Firm A advised him to do so. I appreciate whats been said about SKAs actions, but I 
dont think they led to Mr Ps losses. This is because he received advice to transfer from a 
firm authorised to provide such advice. It was ultimately Firm As obligation to provide Mr P 
with independent and suitable advice. And if it wasnt suitable for Mr P to transfer, Firm A - 
as the experts in this field  ought to have clearly told him. And had they done so and 
provided reasons why, I dont think it likely that any previous discussions with SKA would 
have made Mr P go against Firm As advice. 
It follows then that any loss would be attributable to Firm As advice, and not to the 
introduction as such. In other words, I dont consider SKA was the cause of losses that 
resulted from the transfer. It was the transfer advice and the subsequent actions of Firm A 
that led to Mr Ps loss, not the introduction made by SKA.
So in conclusion, on a fair and reasonable assessment of this complaint, I unable to 
conclude that SKA advised Mr P to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement or that it made an error or treated him unfairly. As such, I wont be requiring 
SKA to pay compensation to Mr P or to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman