DRN-1690828
The complaint
Miss M says she was mis-sold a term assurance policy in 1992 by an adviser from 
Commercial Union Life Assurance Company, for which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
now takes responsibility. Specifically, Miss M says she had no need for the policy as she 
wasnt taking out any mortgage lending. Further, she didnt realise what she had been sold  
she thought it was a type of whole of life investment policy. If she had known it was term 
assurance, she wouldnt have taken it out.  
What happened
Miss M made a complaint in June 2019, and brought it to this service the following month.
Aviva issued a reply in November 2019 saying it was not prepared to uphold the complaint. It 
said a fact find of Miss Ms circumstances was undertaken, upon which the adviser assessed 
her needs and requirements, proposing a policy with a sum assured of £36,000 and a 
premium of £3.99 per month. The suitability letter issued by the adviser recommended a 
term assurance policy with a 25 year term because Miss M was taking out a new mortgage. 
It also said it was reasonable to assume she didnt have any other similar provisions in 
place.
Aviva also said that Miss M would have received clear policy documents to show the term 
ended in June 2017, and that the policy had no cash in value at any time. If Miss M had 
been unhappy with the policy, she could have cancelled it.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He said there was no clear indication 
from the paperwork that Miss M was taking out mortgage lending. She said that her partner 
at the time was taking lending in his sole name and she was merely present at the meeting. 
Miss Ms partner sadly passed away and his term assurance policy paid out.
The investigator took the view that Miss M had no need for the policy and it had therefore 
been mis-sold to her. He proposed that Aviva return the premiums she had paid for the 
policy, with 8% interest along with £200 compensation for the inconvenience she had 
suffered.
Miss M agreed with the investigators findings. Aviva disagreed. It said the policy was level 
term assurance, not decreasing term assurance. And it felt the complaint had been widened 
from a single point about the type of policy Miss M had been sold, to the suitability of the 
sale.
It also said it now accepted that Miss M was not a part of the mortgage lending, but since 
Miss M was to live at the property, the term assurance policy was still a sensible 
recommendation because Miss M had a very young child  if she had passed away, her 
partner could have cleared his mortgage.
Our investigator was unwilling to change his view. He said Miss M had explained she didnt 
have a need for the policy  and if she had properly understood what she was being sold 
she would have refused or cancelled it.Aviva asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. I believe this 
complaint should succeed.
The complaint Miss M has made to this service isnt as constrained as Aviva has stated. The 
complaint lodged with our investigator in July 2019 was that Miss M said she had no 
requirement for the policy because only her partner was taking out mortgage lending. 
Further, she says the policy wasnt explained to her  she had thought it offered whole of life 
cover and was surprised to learn the policy term had ended. Its the latter point that Miss M 
first made to Aviva in June 2019. Aviva did not issue a final response letter until November 
2019 by which time, it was aware of the full complaint.
I realise that Aviva now accepts that Miss M was not taking out a mortgage. Her partner at 
the time was purchasing a new home, and the adviser recommended he take out an 
endowment mortgage. I can also understand why our investigator considered the policy 
proposed to Miss M was a decreasing term assurance policy, because the internal complaint 
decision form sent to us by Aviva says the policy is a DTA.
But the policy schedule confirms that Miss M took out level term cover. The adviser wrote his 
single line recommendations on the fact find document, confirming that [term assurance] on 
female life who is not a party to the mortgage.
I have looked carefully at what both parties have said about the sale in 1992. I have also 
considered any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from the time of 
the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, 
on the balance of probabilities.
My view is that Miss Ms version of events is more reliable. I say that because the fact find 
information completed by the adviser is almost entirely blank. Aviva says that the intention 
was for Miss M to reside in the property with her partner, but the section of the form asking 
for the address of the new property is also incomplete. They were recorded as living at 
different addresses. I havent seen any clear evidence suggesting Miss M would contribute 
to her partners mortgage or that she had any financial responsibility for which a long-term 
assurance policy was required.
Where a policyholder has a debt to protect, life and critical illness policies can provide a very 
sensible form of financial planning. These policies are most often taken out alongside a 
liability such as a mortgage. However, that is not to say such policies are unsuitable for 
shorter-term loans, other types of lending or wider general family protection.
I am mindful that Miss M was aged 20 and a recent new mother  and as Aviva has 
suggested, family protection on that basis is not an unreasonable suggestion where in the 
event of Miss Ms death there would have been a sum assured payable to her family. But 
there is no evidence of any recorded discussion about Miss Ms needs for life assurance 
where she had no financial liability to protect. I would expect an adviser to ascertain the 
requirements of a customer and to make appropriate recommendations as to why his client 
had sought cover for family protection. As it was, no advice details were recorded, the sale 
took place alongside lending for Miss Ms partner, and Miss M believed she had taken out an investment policy with a savings element.
I do not believe the adviser - for which Aviva now takes responsibility  reasonably 
established that the policy sold to Miss M was suitable for her or that she understood the 
nature of the cover she had bought. I therefore consider it was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to refund the premiums paid by Miss M for her life 
assurance policy from its inception in 1992 until its completion in 2017.
Interest should be added at gross rate of 8% simple per annum (and before 1 April 1993, 
15% simple per annum) from the date the premiums were paid, to the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Miss M may be able to reclaim the tax 
paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
I also agree that Miss M ought to be further paid £200 by Aviva in reflection of the upset she 
has suffered when realising her policy was not a with-profits whole of life policy.
I make no other award.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay the 
redress set out above to Miss M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman