DRN-1317772
The complaint
C is a limited company. It complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
incorrectly blocked its two current accounts, causing it to miss payments which in turn have 
damaged its credit score.
What happened
C has two current accounts and a credit card account with NatWest. 
On 19 July 2019, NatWest applied a block to Cs current accounts  stopping both incoming 
and outgoing payments. It also meant that C couldnt access its accounts online.
NatWest removed the block on 29 July after a conversation with one of Cs directors, who Ill 
refer to as Mr M. It said it had applied the block as it believed C was being dissolved, which 
it accepted was incorrect. NatWest paid C £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. And it arranged for an activation code to be sent to C so that it could reactivate its 
online banking. 
Mr M said the block had caused the direct debit payment to Cs credit card account to fail. 
Those missed payments had then been recorded on its credit file. And that adverse 
information was affecting its ability to borrow money elsewhere. Mr M also said that C had 
incurred additional accountancy fees of £1,500 for manual work required with its online 
banking facility unavailable. And hed still not been able to reactivate Cs online banking.
NatWest said that the credit card payments in question had been returned unpaid on 
11 June and 12 July  so the account had already been in arrears before the block had been 
applied. So it didnt accept responsibility for any issues these missed payments had caused. 
It refunded some additional charges and interest totalling £77.56 as a gesture of goodwill. In 
respect of the accountancy fees, it said it would need to speak to the accountant directly to 
better understand how the additional fees had been incurred. It apologised that the activation 
code for online banking had been sent to the wrong address and phone number, and 
arranged for these to be resent.
Mr M referred the complaint to us. He remained most concerned with the impact of the 
adverse credit information, which was causing C difficulties in getting credit and affecting its 
relationship with creditors. He also said NatWest had been rude and unsympathetic when 
discussing the issues with him.
Our investigator didn't think the block had caused the direct debit payments to fail. Payments 
for June and July had fallen due prior to the block, but had been returned unpaid. Those two 
failed payments had caused the direct debit instruction to be cancelled automatically  so no 
attempt was made to collect payment by direct debit in August. He thought that was 
reasonable and noted that C couldve attempted payment another way  for example, over 
the phone or from another account. So he thought all three missed payments were correctly 
reported on Cs credit file. Our investigator couldn't see the need for any retrospective accountancy work to justify the 
£1,500 fee, given that there'd been no purchases from C's accounts during the period it had 
been without its online banking. And having listened to Mr Ms conversations with NatWest, 
on the whole he found its advisers to have been apologetic about what had happened. While 
he appreciated that the matter had evidently caused Mr M some additional stress, he 
explained that he could only look at the inconvenience caused to C. 
So weighing everything up, our investigator thought that the £150 and refund of interest and 
charges that NatWest had already paid was fair compensation for the inconvenience C had 
been caused by the bank's errors. So he didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that NatWest made a mistake in blocking Cs current accounts. It thought 
C was being dissolved, when it wasnt. So the block shouldnt have been applied. Its right 
that C is compensated for the impact of NatWests error. So Ive considered how C was 
affected by what went wrong.
In this respect, Mr M is most concerned with the missed payments to Cs credit card in June, 
July and August last year. But I dont think those payments were missed due to the 
application of the block. 
Statements for June and July show that payments in those months were due on 11 June and 
12 July respectively. A direct debit was in place to collect payment on those dates. But as 
there were insufficient funds in the account, neither payment could be made. That all took 
place prior to the application of the block on 19 July. So I dont think these payments were 
missed because of anything NatWest did wrong.
By the time the August payment fell due, C had access to its accounts again  the block was 
removed on 29 July, in good time for a payment to be made on or before the due date of 
22 August. Mr M says he was still unable to access Cs accounts online through that period, 
hampering his ability to make payments. But while I appreciate that mightve caused some 
inconvenience, I dont think it prevented C from making the necessary payment on time. 
There were a number of other ways it couldve arranged a payment, such as in branch or 
over the phone. So I dont think this missed payment was a consequence of NatWests error 
either.
As I dont think the credit card payments were missed as a result of NatWests error, it 
follows that they were correctly reported to credit reference agencies and have been 
recorded on Cs credit file appropriately. And so while Im sorry to learn of the difficulties C 
has had with its creditors and prospective lenders, I dont think these are the result of a 
mistake by the bank.
I cant see that C has suffered any financial losses as a result of the block applying between 
19 and 29 July 2019, and Mr M hasnt highlighted any other particular costs. Looking at the 
account statements, the balances were relatively low prior to the block (£50 on one and 
around £94 on the other) and Ive not seen that any other transactions were affected.
I can see that C was without access to online banking facilities even after the block was 
removed from its accounts. I understand this was only rectified in mid-September. As noted above I can see how that wouldve caused C some inconvenience, but I cant see that it led 
to any other financial losses. Mr M says that it meant C incurred additional accounting fees, 
as it didnt have access to the necessary statements. I cant see why £1,500 worth of 
additional accounting work wouldve been required as a result of C being unable to access 
its transaction activity for two months, particularly given the limited usage of the accounts in 
question over that period. In any event, again there were other options that C couldve 
explored first  such as asking NatWest for a paper copy of any information that was 
needed. So I dont think I can fairly require the bank to cover this cost.
I can see that C was caused some inconvenience by what went wrong. It had to arrange for 
the blocks to be removed  which NatWest did swiftly once alerted to the problem. It took 
much longer to reinstate the online banking, which was delayed after the bank sent the 
necessary code to the wrong address and wrong phone number. So C had to do without 
online banking for about two months until that was sorted out. Taking all of that into account, 
I think the £150 that NatWest has already paid, along with the £77.56 interest and charges 
that it has refunded, represents fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to C. 
Mr M says that the bank was rude and unsympathetic when discussing these issues with 
him over the phone. Ive not found that to be the case in the recorded conversations Ive 
listened to, although some conversations were a little strained. In any case, I could only look 
at the impact on C, the company, rather than any upset caused to Mr M personally. On a 
similar note, Im sorry to read of the pressures that Mr M and his wife were under when 
these issues arose. But while I can appreciate that the matter wouldve added to their stress 
during an already difficult time, I can only award compensation for the impact of NatWests 
errors on C. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think that was confined to the 
inconvenience  for which fair compensation has already been paid.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid C compensation of £150 and refunded 
charges and interest totalling £77.56, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything further to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman