DRN-4007037
The complaint
Mr I complains about what happened when he asked Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (Virgin) for some information about how his mortgage works. He said Virgin ignored 
his contact altogether until he complained, and even then, it didnt answer his question.
What happened
Mr I said hed contacted Virgin, to ask about the overpayments he was making on his 
mortgage. He said hed asked it to confirm that his overpayments were coming off the capital 
amount. And he also wanted to know that as the capital reduced with the overpayments, the 
interest charged was also coming down. He wanted to be sure he wasnt paying a static 
interest amount, regardless of the overpayment. 
Mr I said hed asked this in August 2022, and several months later he was still waiting for a 
response.
Mr I said he wanted an apology, and an answer to his original query. He told us he wanted 
Virgin to send a schedule of overpayments applied and the amount of interest charged per 
month, to demonstrate how the interest is decreasing with the overpayments made to the 
account. He also wanted compensation for the stress and inconvenience that he said hed 
been caused.
Virgin sent our service the emails it received from Mr I. Those recorded his initial query as 
made on 1 August. It read as follows  
Our contractual payment is £2109.26 per month and we overpay as we pay £2,400 
per month so an overpayment of £290.74 per month.
Can you please confirm the overpayment of £290.74 per month comes off the capital 
amount and as the capital reduces with the overpayments that the interest charged 
also comes down rather than a static interest regardless of the overpayment.
If you cannot respond by email, please write to us at the mortgaged property.
Mr I then emailed again on 23 August, to say this - 
Further to my email below of 1 Aug 2022, no one has bothered to reply 23 days later. 
Therefore, treat this as a formal complaint.
Mr I emailed again to refer this complaint to the CEO, on 2 September. On 5 September, the 
executive team replied. This reply included the following  
We will contact you once we've completed our investigation into your concerns. 
However, in the meantime we confirm any overpayment comes off your capital 
balance. Your account is on a daily rate of interest so as the capital balance reduces 
so does the interest charged.
Virgin then sent Mr I a letter in reply to his complaint, dated 7 November. The letter 
apologised for the length of time it had taken to reply to Mr Is complaint. It said his initial 
query received an automated reply, directing him to the team that Virgin thought could help 
him. Virgin said it was sorry Mr I felt his query hadnt been addressed, but because it had 
sent him the right number to get in touch with the relevant team, Virgin didnt agree. 
Virgin confirmed the amount of Mr Is contractual monthly payment, and that it was receiving 
a regular overpayment from him. It set out the relevant term of Mr Is mortgage, which 
confirms that the interest hes charged is calculated on a daily basis. So each overpayment 
reduces the capital and the interest on the loan. Virgin sent him a link to an overpayment 
calculator, which could help him to work out the impact that his overpayments were having 
on his mortgage. And Virgin said that if Mr I wasnt happy with its reply, he could ask our 
service to look into this. 
Mr I has told us he didnt receive this complaint response letter, and he asked our service to 
look into his complaint. (Our service has since sent this letter on to him.)
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin had shown us 
that the email address Mr I wrote to doesnt handle queries. An automated reply had 
explained this, and provided the information he needed to get a response from the right 
team. But once Mr I raised a complaint, Virgin did reply. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said he didnt think wed understood his complaint. 
Mr I said the email address he wrote to didnt issue an automated reply. He said it might 
have one now, but it didnt have one when his email was sent. Mr I also said that the second 
email clearly stated he was complaining, and he didnt get any reply to that either. So he 
escalated his complaint to the CEOs office. Although the CEOs office said it would 
investigate, nothing was ever received. 
Mr I said that hed still had no response to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said hed asked Virgin for more information 
about the automated reply that it sent. And although Mr Is second email said it was a 
complaint, the original email was a query - which is why it wasn't answered.
Mr I said his second email had been ignored until he escalated this, but our investigator said 
hed sent us an acknowledgement dated 30 August, which was sent out by Virgin before Mr I 
sought to escalate the complaint. And Mr I said no reply had been received to his complaint, 
but our investigator said that Virgins initial email back from the CEOs office on 5 September 
did answer his query, and a fuller reply was sent on 7 November 2022.
Our investigator said hed ask Virgin to send Mr I a breakdown showing Mr Is interest and 
overpayments. He didnt comment on whether Mr I had asked Virgin directly for this before. 
Mr I replied again to disagree. He repeated that hed never received an automated reply to 
his first emailed query. He did agree that hed received a response after his second email, 
which formalised his complaint. But he didnt think Virgin had replied to his complaint on 5 
September, he said that he was then awaiting the full investigation that Virgin had offered. 
He repeated that hed never seen a complaint response letter from Virgin, and said he did 
require a breakdown to show interest and overpayments on his mortgage. 
Virgin also contacted our service, to say it couldnt retrieve the actual automated reply that it 
sent to Mr I. These emails are all the same, so it doesnt keep them. But it said that these automated replies had been sent out in response to correspondence to this email since 28 
June 2022. 
Mr I said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for 
a final decision. Before I reached that decision, I arranged for Virgins complaint response 
letter of 7 November to be sent to him, and his latest statement. 
Mr I replied to say that he already had the statement, which doesnt break down the interest 
and didnt tell him how payments were allocated to the outstanding capital. He said he would 
like to know the exact amount that has come off the capital balance as a result of the 
overpayments made. Our investigator passed this request on to Virgin, and it said it would 
send this to Mr I.
I then reached my final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I think its important, when Im considering the right outcome in this case, to bear in mind the 
initial question Mr I asked, which I have set out in full in italics above. Mr I asked Virgin to 
confirm how it was treating his overpayment. 
Virgin has told us that it sent Mr I an automated reply which sought to redirect his query. Mr I 
is adamant this wasnt received. Having considered all the evidence on this point from both 
sides, I think its likely that this was sent, although it may not have been successfully 
received by Mr I. So I dont think Virgin ignored Mr Is initial email, and I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Virgin to seek to redirect that query to the team it thought would 
be the best source of help.
Mr I then complained. Hes accepted that he received an acknowledgement of this complaint 
before he sought to escalate it. 
When Mr I did seek to escalate his complaint, he received a reply, which again, Ive partially 
reproduced above. I think that at this point, Virgin had provided a response to Mr Is initial 
query. 
Virgin has shown us a fuller reply, dated 7 November, which it sent on to Mr I. I know Mr I 
says he didnt get this, but it does appear to me to be correctly addressed, and I think its 
likely it was sent. I dont think its Virgins fault if this wasnt received. And Im glad that our 
service has been able to send this to Mr I now. 
Mr I also said he wanted a fuller breakdown of his recent payments, in more detail than his 
statement offered. Mr I first asked for this as part of the remedy if his complaint was upheld. 
I know our investigator has asked Virgin to send this on to Mr I. I think he did so as a 
courtesy. I cant see that Mr I had asked Virgin directly to send this information to him, as 
part of his initial complaint. Virgin has said it will send this to Mr I, so Mr I may already have received it. But because this 
request didnt form part of Mr Is original query to Virgin, or the complaint that followed that, 
then whether or not this has yet been sent out by Virgin wouldnt affect my conclusion on the 
complaint he asked our service to consider. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think that Virgin ignored Mr Is question or his 
subsequent complaint. And for that reason, although I know that Mr I will be disappointed, I 
dont think his complaint to our service should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman