DRN-2713091
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited administered his 
Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr A opened his ISA with Nutmeg in early 2017. 
In August 2020 Mr A received an investment report and realised that a deposit he made in 
March 2020 was in a General Investment Account (GIA) rather than an ISA. This meant that 
he had lost his ISA allowance for that year, so he complained to Nutmeg.
Nutmeg looked into the issue but didnt uphold the complaint. They said their systems had 
behaved correctly and because there was no open ISA at the time the funds were deposited, 
they went into the GIA. Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered what happened. They didnt think Nutmeg had made 
any errors and thought the terms and conditions made it clear how the account worked. Mr A 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything provided by both Mr A and Nutmeg it seems the problem stems 
from a misunderstanding about how the account works. So Ive considered the terms and 
conditions to see how clear they are about how the account works, and how Nutmeg made 
Mr A aware of this.
The account works with a wrapper that allows for new ISAs to be opened for each tax year. 
Its an annual product and each tax year a new ISA will be opened for that year if Nutmeg 
are asked to do so by the customer. This can be done by an auto renewal function, which 
was the option agreed by Mr A, or manually by using the Start an ISA function in the online 
dashboard.
The terms and conditions say:
When you subscribe for an ISA, we will open an ISA and General Investment Account for 
you. Any contributions you make outside of your ISA allowance (as determined by your ISA 
settings) will be allocated to your General Investment Account.
Our default ISA settings will automatically renew your ISA for the subsequent tax year 
provided you make a least one contribution to your ISA in each tax year. 
For the avoidance of doubt, should you fail to make a contribution to your ISA in a given tax 
year, your ISA will lapse for the following tax year and any subsequent contributions you 
make will be allocated to your General Investment Account.
What happened to Mr A was that in the 2017/18 tax year he made contributions which meant 
that an ISA was automatically renewed for the next year in accordance with how he had set 
up the wrapper when it was opened. Mr A didnt make any contributions in the following tax 
year of 2018/19 so that ISA lapsed and a new ISA wasnt created for the 2019/20 tax year. 
This means that when Mr A made a deposit in March 2020 it went into a GIA, as the terms 
and conditions say it would, as there was no active ISA at that time. Looking at this Im 
satisfied the account operated as it should have done and Nutmeg didnt make any errors. 
Having looked at the terms and conditions Im happy this term is fairly brought to the 
attention of customers. This wording is at the top of the section titled Additional ISA Terms 
and Im persuaded its sufficiently clear about how the account works.
When opening any account with Nutmeg customers must tick a box as part of the application 
process to agree to the client terms and conditions. When opening an ISA customers must 
also tick another box saying:
I have been provided, have read, and have agreed to Nutmegs Terms and Conditions, 
including the Additional Terms for Stocks and shares ISAs
Considering the application process Im satisfied Nutmeg sufficiently brought the terms and 
conditions to the attention of Mr A. Specifically with an ISA they also drew attention to the 
additional applicable terms. In order to open the account Mr A ticked both of these boxes. 
So putting these two things together, Im happy that the terms and conditions explain how 
the account works, and that they were brought to the attention of Mr A who agreed he had 
read them. Had Mr A thought they were unclear, or if he was unsure about how the account 
worked, he couldve sought clarification from Nutmeg, but I havent seen any evidence this 
happened. 
Mr A says that Nutmeg shouldve warned him that the funds went into the GIA instead of an 
ISA. I can see why Mr A feels this way however Ive seen nothing to show that Nutmeg 
agreed to do this or that they have a responsibility to do so. 
Mr A also says it wasnt made clear to him on the online dashboard that the funds were in 
the GIA rather than an ISA. Having looked at the dashboard the heading which says ISA & 
General has a list of accounts underneath. I think this indicates that there are funds in both 
ISAs and a GIA. Also on the left hand side there is a Start an ISA button under the heading 
Your ISA. I think this indicates that there is not an active ISA at that time. Even if I was to 
agree that the dashboard wasnt clear, and Im not currently persuaded thats the case, I still 
must consider that no errors were made, and the funds went into a GIA in accordance with 
the terms and conditions. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Nutmeg acted fairly and reasonably in 
bringing the terms and conditions to Mr As attention about how the account worked. I also 
think the account worked correctly when the funds went into the GIA. Thats not to say that 
Mr A hasnt been affected by what happened; he clearly has. However I dont think Nutmeg 
made any mistakes in the operation of the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman