DRN-2773740
The complaint
Mr E complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)
avoided his motor policy (treated it like it never existed). Mr E is also unhappy with the 
customer service provided and alleged discrimination by Advantage when handling his 
claim.
Any reference to Advantage in my decision includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
Mr E took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage in 2018. Advantage say the policy 
later renewed in April 2019 and 2020. 
In September 2020 Mr E was involved in an accident and contacted Advantage to register a 
claim on his policy. Advantage say they asked Mr E at this point if he had any motoring 
convictions and Mr E didnt make them aware of any. It later came to light that Mr E had two 
previous SP30 offences registered against his license. These were dated 6 August 2017 
(prior to the policy) and 18 September 2018 (after the policy had initially started). 
Advantage considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
avoid his policy, decline the claim because of this and refund the premiums Mr E had paid 
for the insurance from 23 April 2019.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
found that Mr E had made a careless qualifying mis-representation and that Advantage 
could fairly avoid Mr Es policy from 23 April 2019. He also found that Advantage had 
accepted there were communication errors when investigating this claim but that the £75 
offer theyd paid Mr E was fair and reasonable. Our investigator also found that there was no 
evidence that Advantage had discriminated against Mr E. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators assessment and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he didnt let them know that he had one SP30 offence on his license at the point of taking the 
policy out in 2018 and secondly not letting them know when hed had the second SP30 
offence recorded against his license in September 2018 (when it was added) or at the point 
of the policy renewing in 2019 and 2020. 
Ive looked at the relevant policy terms here as well as what information Mr E provided when 
taking out the policy and at each renewal. Mr E says this policy was taken out through a 
price comparison website initially. Ive seen a copy of the statement of insurance document 
and on page 2 it states: Conviction history 
Conviction history
Conviction history 
For all drivers named on this policy, we need to know of any driving related 
convictions, endorsements, fixed penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past five 
years.
None disclosed
Based on whatve seen, Advantage would still have provided cover - albeit likely on different 
terms had they known about this conviction when the policy was taken out.
The second conviction was added on 18 September 2018. Ive seen no evidence that Mr E 
made Advantage aware of it either. The policy terms are clear in that if a policy holders or a 
named drivers license changes in any way they need to let the insurer know. The terms 
further make it clear that at the point of renewal this is especially important. 
Generally speaking, the renewal premium will be based on assumptions the insurer makes 
about the policy holder not having had any change in circumstances in the previous 12 
months. Ive seen the documents sent to Mr E after the 2019 and 2020 renewals and, in my 
opinion, its made clear that Mr E needs to check that his details are correct. For example it 
states on the renewal letter dated 23 April 2019:
so please check them and if you spot something that needs to change let us know 
straightaway
Ive considered Mr Es point that he was suffering with mental health issues at various points 
since taking out the policy as the reason he hadnt informed Advantage of the motoring 
offences. Whilst he has my sympathy, as Ive already found, there were a number of other  
occasions when he had an opportunity to make Advantage aware of the motoring offences. 
For example, at policy inception when there was only one offence, at policy renewal in 2019 
and 2020, when he changed his car or when he notified Advantage of the claim in 
September 2020.
But Ive also noted that in a call between himself and Advantage which Mr E has provided us 
with a copy of following a subject access request, after he registered his claim, Mr E says (in 
relation to the offences); I thought you were aware of these. This is a different explanation 
to the reason provided about mental health issues being the reason Mr E didnt inform 
Advantage about the motoring offences. Mr E has said to Advantage (in relation to the 2020 renewal): Your advisor working from 
home at renewal this year, meant the line was not clear and I could not hear what the 
advisor was informing me properly. But even in a scenario where this was the case, as Ive 
already pointed out, Mr E was sent documents after renewal and had another opportunity to 
verify that the information hed provided Advantage was correct. 
On balance, I dont find that Mr E took reasonable care to let Advantage know about his 
convictions prior to or before the 2019 policy renewal and Im satisfied he was made 
reasonably aware that he needed to provide accurate information to Advantage.  
Advantage has provided the confidential relevant underwriting criteria. It shows that that if 
Mr E had not made the misrepresentation about having two motoring offences it wouldnt 
have offered him cover. 
Mr E has said that the first conviction will have dropped off one month prior to the accident 
hes claiming for. But as our investigator pointed out, it will have stayed on Mr Es record for 
four years - so the earliest date itll have dropped off and be considered irrelevant by the 
insurer wouldve been after the accident that Mr E is claiming for. 
General Insurance has said Mr Es misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or 
reckless. I consider that fair as Im reasonably satisfied that Mr E didnt take sufficient care to 
either keep Advantage up to date either when he had the second conviction added, or at the 
point of the 2019 and 2020 renewals and hes said he assumed Advantage automatically 
knew.
As Im satisfied Mr Es misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In this case Advantage have avoided Mr Es policy and, as this means that  in effect  his 
policy never existed, Advantage does not have to deal with his claim following the accident 
hes claiming for. Advantage have already refunded the premiums Mr E paid from 23 April 
2019 and I consider that fair. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Advantage to rely on it to avoid Mr Es policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
other points raised by Mr E
Mr E has alleged that Advantage have discriminated against him because of mental 
health issues and his ethnicity. Ive considered these points very carefully, but find no 
credible supporting evidence to support what Mr E has said. As Ive already 
explained, Mr E had numerous opportunities to make Advantage aware of the 
motoring convictions - even after the peak of his mental health condition in 2019. 
oIn relation to disclosing the convictions, I dont find any supporting evidence 
that Advantage have discriminated against Mr E because of his mental health 
issues. Ive also noted that Advantage have been positive in providing contact 
details for a charity that can possibly help Mr E with mental health issues.
oIn relation to Mr Es allegation of discrimination because of his ethnicity, 
having listened to extensive telephone recordings between Mr E and 
Advantage as well as reviewing all the other evidence, Ive found no 
supporting evidence that the poor customer service is anything more than that 
- or it goes beyond poor customer service and its the discrimination that Mr E 
has alleged. As our investigator has outlined, the customer service offered by Advantage, at 
times, when handling this claim couldve been better. Advantage themselves have 
accepted this and its my understanding theyve already paid Mr E an offer that I 
consider fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of their actions when 
handling this claim.
I understand Mr Es frustration regarding the access to the engineers repair estimate 
and the location of where his car was being stored, but once Advantage let Mr E 
know they were avoiding his policy they didnt have any further involvement with     
Mr Es claim or car. Any valuation information was commercially sensitive and 
Advantage havent done anything wrong by not sharing it with Mr E. 
I note that Advantage let Mr E know around 23 September 2020: I have also spoken 
with [redacted] and advised them that your claim is now being voided so they can 
look to handle the scraping of your vehicle directly with you. They also provided Mr 
E with a contact number for the third-party business. Advantage arent responsible 
for anything that happened in relation to scrapping the car after they avoided the 
policy and I dont find that Advantage have treated Mr E unfairly by advising him to 
speak to the third-party business.
Mr E has also referred throughout his complaint to another insurer that he says 
wouldve offered cover - even with the two driving offences on his record. But Im 
considering the actions of Advantage here and not what another insurer in the market 
may or may not have done.
Each insurer will have its own underwriting criteria and having considered all of the 
evidence here, Ive found that Mr E has made a qualifying careless 
mis-representation and Advantage can rely on CIDRA to avoid the policy from 23 
April 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman