DRN-3863393
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about British Gas Insurance Limiteds incorrect decision to condemn 
her boiler following a service which led her to purchase a replacement boiler unnecessarily. 
What happened
Mrs B held a Homecare Agreement with British Gas. Part of the agreement was for British 
Gas to arrange an annual service of her boiler. 
In June 2022 this was done by an engineer. A leak was discovered and a second engineer 
attended. They said a part was needed. When the engineer returned to replace the part, 
they advised that the adjoining parts had corroded and the boiler needed to be condemned. 
Mrs B raised a complaint with British Gas. In August 2022 when British Gas contacted Mrs B 
to discuss her complaint, she explained that she had by then paid for a replacement boiler. 
British Gas investigated Mrs Bs complaint and found that the corroded parts could have 
been replaced and it wasnt necessary to have condemned Mrs Bs boiler. To put things 
right, British Gas said it would pay her the equivalent cost of the replacement parts. This was 
£98.21. British Gas said it would compensate Mrs B for its error by paying £250. 
Mrs B asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought British Gas should pay half 
of the costs to replace the boiler in light of its error. He recommended 50% of the costs 
rather than the full costs as Mrs Bs boiler was 12 years old. 
In light of his recommendation, he thought a fair compensation award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused should be £150. 
Mrs B accepted the Investigators view. She explained that British Gas had already sent her 
a payment for £250. 
British Gas didnt agree. It said that having reviewed the engineers job sheets it no longer 
agreed that the parts were replaceable. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In British Gas final response to Mrs Bs complaint, it wrote:
Your complaint was sent to be reviewed by the company that completed your annual 
service. They advised me that they would not be able to see the extent of any 
corrosion at annual service until the plate heat exchanger was removed. However 
they advised that the parts that were corroded were available and our engineer that 
attended on 28 June 2022 and 29 June 2022 should have been able to replace the 
corroded parts.
In response to the Investigators view, British Gas wrote in relation to the corroded part(s):
Looking at the job history if its corroded as bad as mentioned by the engineer then it 
would be beyond repair. The plate heat exchanger & the plate that it attaches to is 
available, but if what that plate screws into (chassis of the appliance ) is also 
corroded then the appliance would be beyond repair, because as you know 
manufactures dont supply the chassis as a part.
So for this reason, British Gas doesnt agree it should make a contribution toward the costs 
of a replacement boiler. 
However, this is a different finding to the one it gave Mrs B when it investigated and replied 
to her complaint in August 2022. It accepted its agent had made an error and the engineer 
should have been able to replace the corroded parts. So I dont think it fair or reasonable for 
British Gas to now rely on a different outcome as to whether Mrs Bs boiler could have been 
repaired or not. 
When British Gas reviewed Mrs Bs complaint, it contacted her on 17 August 2022 to discuss 
its findings. By this stage, Mrs B had arranged for the boiler to be replaced with a new one. 
Shes provided a copy of an invoice to show she paid £2,350 for it. 
Mrs B explained to British Gas that but for the fact she was told by its appointed engineer 
that the boiler couldnt be repaired, she wouldnt have made the decision to buy a new one. I 
think based on what British Gas told Mrs B in June 2022, her decision was a reasonable one 
to make. 
Ive taken into consideration that the age of Mrs Bs boiler was around twelve years old. And 
so I dont think British Gas should meet the full costs of a replacement boiler as I think this 
would put Mrs B in a position of betterment. But I think it should pay 50% of the costs, so 
£1,175.
As British Gas has already paid Mrs B £250 compensation, and I agree with the 
Investigators approach that £150 is appropriate along with the boiler contribution payment, I 
think British Gas can deduct £100 from the £1,175 it pays Mrs B. Mrs B is in agreement with 
the Investigators recommendations. 
I think British Gas should pay interest on the £1,075 from the date Mrs B paid to the date it 
pays her at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
Pay Mrs B 50% of the costs to replace the boiler. 
Deduct £100 from the £250 compensation its already paid from the payment, so 
pay a total of £1,075. 
Pay interest on the £1,075 at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mrs B paid to the date it reimburses her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman