DRN-4432115
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr W complain about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) decline of their travel 
insurance claim. My references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr W took out single trip travel insurance, including cruise cover. The policy cover 
was from 14 April to 7 May 2023. IPA was the relevant insurer.
The plan had been for Mrs P and Mr W to return to the UK by a cruise. But on 23 April while 
they were on their holiday abroad the cruise provider told them the cruise was cancelled. 
The cruise provider refunded the cost of the cancelled cruise, about £6,400.
On 28 April 2023 Mr W phoned IPA to ask whether the costs of their rearranged travel and 
accommodation to return home were covered under the policy. They say IPA told them their 
costs were covered. On 7 May 2023 they claimed on the policy for hotel and travel costs of 
about £2,600.
On 29 June 2023 IPA declined the claim. It said the refund for the cancelled cruise covered 
the costs Mrs P and Mr W incurred in returning home and there was no cover for the claim 
under the policy terms. IPA accepted it had given Mr W wrong information about cover in the 
28 April call. IPA also acknowledged that Mr W had contacted it several times for an update 
on the claim and it said the claim hadnt been progressed as quickly as it should have done. 
It paid Mrs P and Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor 
service caused.
Mrs P and Mr W complained to us. In summary they said the money the cruise provider paid 
covered the costs theyd paid for the cancelled cruise but it hadnt paid for their additional 
costs to return home. They want IPA to pay their claim as they said they took out travel 
insurance so such costs would be covered and IPA had told them the costs were covered.
Our investigator said IPA had reasonably declined the claim. He didnt think IPAs wrong 
information about cover had caused Mrs P and Mr W financial detriment and its £200 
compensation payment was a reasonable amount.
Mrs P and Mr W disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They accepted the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy terms. But they wanted consideration of IPAs wrong 
information it had given them. They said it seemed that an insurer had no responsibility for 
giving wrong information, even if an insured person acted in line with that information. In 
contrast, if an insured person gave an insurer wrong information when applying for a policy 
the insurer would reject a claim. Also the £200 compensation covered IPAs wrong 
information and poor claim handling and was a small fraction of the costs they were told 
would be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P and Mr W but I think IPA reasonably declined their claim and its 
£200 compensation payment due to its poor service was fair. Ill explain why.
Mrs P and Mr W have accepted that their claim isnt covered by the policy terms. For the 
avoidance of doubt Im satisfied that the claim isnt covered by the terms of the policy. 
The Cruise cover at section 11 of the policy provides cover for specific costs if an insured 
event happens as detailed in the policy. Mrs P and Mr Ws circumstances arent covered by 
that section. IPAs final response letter declined the claim under Section 3 Disruption or 
delay to travel plans. As the cruise provider refunded the cost of the cruise that would have 
returned Mrs P and Mr W to the UK I think IPA reasonably declined the claim as Mrs P and 
Mr W would have always incurred costs to return home. The costs they paid werent 
additional costs as the refund from the cruise provider meant they hadnt already paid to 
return home. One of the general exclusions in the policy is Any amount recoverable from 
any other source, which is a standard exclusion in travel insurance. I understand Mrs P and 
Mr Ws point about the differences between a cruise home and a flight home but ultimately 
both ways of travel return them to the UK. 
The claim isnt covered by the policy terms but IPA gave Mrs P and Mr W wrong information 
about cover, which it accepts. As to Mrs P and Mr Ws general point about the impact of an 
insurer and an insured person giving wrong information, there are certain circumstances 
where we may say that its unfair for an insurer to decline a claim if a consumer has given 
wrong information when taking out a policy. But this complaint is about an insurer, IPA, 
giving Mrs P and Mr W wrong information. When that happens we wouldnt automatically tell 
IPA to pay the costs just because it told Mrs P and Mr W it would do. We look at the effect 
the wrong information had on Mrs P and Mr W.
Ive listened to the call Mr W made to IPA on 28 April 2023 and I understand Mrs P and 
Mr W have too. I think its clear from what Mr W tells IPA that in the days between him and 
Mrs P being told about the cruise cancellation and calling IPA they had already made plans 
to travel to another location to see a relative and then on to another city to fly home. Mr W 
phoned IPA to see if the costs of their alternative travel plans would be covered. But even if 
IPA had given him the correct information that the hotel and travel costs werent covered 
I think its more likely than not that Mrs P and Mr W would have continued with their 
alternative travel plans and they had to buy flights to return to the UK. So I cant reasonably 
say Mrs P and Mr W made plans based on, and were prejudiced by, IPAs wrong 
information. Theres no basis on which I can fairly say IPA should pay the costs claimed.
I think IPAs wrong information caused Mrs P and Mr W loss of expectation and some 
distress and inconvenience. Mrs P and Mr W consider that IPA only paid them £100 
compensation for those matters in respect of the wrong information it gave. IPA hasnt said 
how it calculated the £200 compensation paid to Mrs P and Mr W. But I think its most likely 
that most of the £200 was in respect of the wrong information as the claim taking less than 
two months to decide isnt a wholly unreasonable timescale. 
I think IPAs offer and payment of £200 compensation for Mrs P and Mr Ws overall distress 
and inconvenience and loss of expectation was a fair amount. IPA doesnt need to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman