DRN-3777206
The complaint
Mr S complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) reported incorrect
information about his account to the Credit Reference Agencies, which he says has
negatively affected his credit score and adversely impacted him in other ways.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with JLFS. In November 2019, he was declared bankrupt. Mr
S spoke to JLFS at the time and it applied a temporary block to his account. JLFS says it
couldnt block the account fully as it hadnt received anything from the Official Receiver at
that point. The temporary block prevented payments going out of the account but didnt stop
payments coming in.
In the period from December 2019 to August 2020, several credits were made to the account
by a business which Ill call A. But Mr S says that, due to the bankruptcy order, it shouldnt
have been possible for credits to be made to the account. The issue of the credits was
considered by this service in a previous complaint brought by Mr S.
In August 2021, several months after our Investigator had issued a view on the initial
complaint, JLFS paid the credits from A to Mr S. JLFS debited the funds from Mr Ss credit
card account in order to do this, causing the balance to exceed the credit limit. The account
was reported to the Credit Reference Agencies as being over the credit limit and in arrears.
Mr S complained to JLFS about the way the account was being reported. JLFS said it had to
report a true reflection of Mr Ss account and couldnt change the entries on his credit file. Mr
S wasnt happy with JLFSs response and asked this service to look at the complaint. He
said that his account should have been reported as defaulted due to his bankruptcy, but
instead JLFS was reporting it as an active account.
Our Investigator didnt think JLFS had acted fairly. She recommended that it close Mr Ss
account and report a default balance of £6,959 (which was the balance before the credits
from A were debited). She also recommended that JLFS pay compensation of £250 to Mr S
for the unnecessary stress and inconvenience the situation had caused.
JLFS accepted our Investigators recommendations and has since amended the balance of 
Mr Ss account to £6,959. But Mr S said that, although the balance had been changed, the 
status of the account hadnt. He says it is still showing on his credit file as an active, overdue 
account, rather than a defaulted account. And he didnt think £250 was enough 
compensation. He asked JLFS to consider what it felt was an appropriate amount. JLFS
didnt wish to offer more, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2022, indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. Both parties indicated their agreement with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision.  My reasons 
are set out below.
Mr S accepts that JLFS has amended his account balance in line with our Investigators 
view. The balance is now showing on Mr Ss credit file as £6,959. But Mr S provided 
evidence that, as recently as August 2022, the account is showing as an active, overdue 
account on his credit file. So, Im not satisfied that JLFS has marked Mr Ss account as 
defaulted. It needs to do that and should have done so before now.
I also think that the account balance being reported needs to be amended further. The date
of the bankruptcy order was 13 November 2019. Mr S informed JLFS about the bankruptcy
on 25 November 2019. But JLFS continued to apply interest and charges to Mr Ss account
during the bankruptcy and these are included in the balance now being reported. Ive asked
JLFS about this and I understand that there was a delay in JLFS receiving official notice of
the bankruptcy in this case. Nevertheless, JLFS accepts that interest should have been
frozen during the bankruptcy.
JLFS suggested that the balance doesnt need further adjustment as Mr S isnt expected
to pay it and it will be written off. But I think the balance does need to be adjusted. Thats
because it needs to be an accurate reflection of the amount which was outstanding at the
date of Mr Ss bankruptcy. No interest or charges should have been applied after the date of
the bankruptcy order, so they shouldnt be included in the balance being recorded on Mr Ss
account or reported to the Credit Reference Agencies. Not only is the current balance
incorrect, but it also has the potential to impact Mr S negatively if his credit file shows a
default balance which is more than he owed at the time. So I think JLFS should amend the
account balance by removing interest and charges applied from 13 November 2019.
Mr S has explained the negative impact these mistakes have had. Hes clearly been
inconvenienced and it has been distressing for him to have to keep pursuing the matter,
knowing that there are still errors in the way his account is being reported after all this time.
Hes provided evidence that hes been rejected for credit. Whilst I cant safely conclude that
the sole reason for this was the JLFS account, I find it likely that the way it has been
reported to date has been a factor. I think that JLFS needs to pay some compensation to Mr
S to recognise this. Given the ongoing issues Ive outlined above, I think this needs to be
more than previously recommended by our Investigator. Taking everything into account, I
think £400 would be a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
should:
remove all interest and charges which were applied to Mr Ss account from 13
November 2019 onwards, so as to calculate the amended balance (the Default
Balance);
close Mr Ss account;
report to the Credit Reference Agencies that the account was defaulted on 13
November 2019 and report that the balance at the time was the Default Balance; and
pay compensation of £400 to Mr S.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman