DRN-2771151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Lloyds Bank PLC provided incorrect information about how long 
it would take to update its systems. They also complain about poor service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q had a joint current account with Lloyds. Mr Q says he tried to make an online 
payment using his card, but the payment was declined because he wasnt able to receive a 
one-time password. He contacted Lloyds to update his mobile phone number so that the 
one-time password could be sent to him. Lloyds updated his mobile number and said that it 
would take 24 hours to be updated on its systems.
Mr Q tried to make the payment after 24 hours had passed but he still didnt receive a one-
time password. He phoned Lloyds again. He says he was in a queue for over half an hour 
before his call was answered. He says he then spent a further hour on the telephone to get 
things sorted out. He complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It acknowledged that it had given Mr Q incorrect 
information. It should have told him it would take 48 hours to update its systems with his 
mobile number. Lloyds said that because of this Mr Q had had to phone it back and hed 
been kept waiting. It offered him £25 by way of compensation for the inconvenience hed 
experienced when he had to spend time following the matter up. It also offered him £9 for his 
costs. It paid £34 into Mr and Mrs Qs account.
Mr Q wasnt satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service. Because 
the account held with Lloyds was a joint account, Mrs Q consented to our service 
investigating the complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said Lloyds had given Mr Q incorrect 
information and hed had to wait for Lloyds to answer his call. He had been inconvenienced 
as a result. But, she thought that it was reasonable to expect that at times banks could have 
high call volumes and that meant customers might have to wait longer.
She said that Lloyds had unblocked his card whilst he was on the telephone and resolved 
the issue he had when trying to make online payments. In these circumstances, she said 
that our role wasnt to fine or punish a business. We looked at whether the compensation 
offered was fair and reasonable. She thought that Lloyds had apologised and the 
compensation it paid had been fair and reasonable. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Q didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr Q was inconvenienced because of what happened in this case. 
He contacted Lloyds to update his mobile telephone number so that he could make an online 
payment. Lloyds did record the details correctly on its systems, but it told Mr Q that it would 
take 24 hours before he could make an online payment. That was incorrect. Infact, it took 48 
hours for the system to be updated with the new mobile telephone number. And, it was also 
the case that because the card payment had been declined, Mr Qs card needed to be 
unblocked before he could make the payment.
Mr Q phoned Lloyds again when he couldnt make the online payment. He was in a queue 
for about 30 minutes before his call was answered. He then spent a further hour on the 
telephone getting the matter resolved. During that hour he also logged a complaint with 
Lloyds.
Ive listened to the call. Lloyds admitted hed been given incorrect information and 
apologised. Lloyds also resolved the problem. It confirmed that the correct mobile number 
was held on its systems, unblocked the card and stayed on the line until Mr Q confirmed that 
the online payment had been successful. I think that its actions, during this call were fair and 
reasonable.
Mr Q also logged his complaint about what had happened. Lloyds offered him £9 for his 
telephone costs. Mr Q didnt take any issue with that amount. Lloyds then offered him £25 
for the time hed spent on the calls. Mr Q didnt agree. He thought this was not in line with 
the hourly rate he would be able to charge. He expected considerably more to be offered to 
him.
When thinking about how a complaint should be resolved, we consider what is fair and 
reasonable taking into account everything that has happened. 
When he phoned Lloyds, Mr Q did have to spend time in a queue. I understand that was 
inconvenient for him. But, as our investigator said, banks can have high volumes of calls at 
certain times. So, sometimes customers have to wait longer before they get through to an 
adviser. Thats what happened here.
Once his call was answered, Lloyds needed to verify Mr Qs identity so that his card could be 
unblocked. Mr Q asked a member of his family to assist him during the call and Lloyds 
agreed to speak to the other family member at certain times during the call. 
I can also see that Lloyds waited whilst Mr Q confirmed that the online payment he wanted 
to make had been successful. That required additional time since Lloyds needed to take 
further action to unblock the card so that the payment could go through. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to do that. Taking all of these things into account, I dont think that the time 
spent on the call was excessive.
Further time was then spent recording the details of Mr Qs complaint. It is the case that 
customers should reasonably expect that they will have to spend time if they want to raise a 
complaint. During the call, after he raised his complaint, Mr Q was put on hold whilst the 
adviser conferred with his manager about the complaint. He did this before reverting with 
Lloyds offer of compensation. But, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to 
put the call on hold whilst it considered what compensation it was willing to offer Mr Q.  
In line with what it agreed to do, Lloyds paid £34 into Mr and Mrs Qs account. Mr Q thinks 
this isnt enough. He thinks he should be compensated for his time - in line with the hourly 
rate he would be able to charge. When a business has done something wrong, as happened here when Lloyds gave Mr Q 
incorrect information, we expect it to act fairly and reasonably when trying to put things right. 
So, we look at everything it did to try to resolve the complaint.
When Mr Q contacted it, Lloyds acknowledged it had given him incorrect information and it 
took immediate steps to resolve the matter so that he could make online payments. It 
confirmed with him that the online payment hed been trying to make had now been made. It 
apologised for the length of time hed had to spend on the telephone, offered to pay the 
costs of his telephone call and offered him £25 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience hed experienced. 
Having considered everything here, I think that Lloyds has done enough to try to put things 
right. I think it has acted fairly and reasonably and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman