DRN-2760786
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Ulster Bank Ltd handled a chargeback claim. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr F purchased a car using his Ulster Bank Debit card. Mr F has 
explained he experienced problems with the vehicle and took the decision to take it back to 
the merchant where it was left. Mr F contacted Ulster Bank and raised a chargeback claim to 
recover his money. 
Ulster Bank says it asked Mr F for important information so it could process the chargeback 
claim. Mr F says he responded to Ulster Bank and that he provided the information 
requested. Ulster Bank says it didnt hear back with the information required. 
Mr F went on to complain and Ulster Bank agreed to process his chargeback claim. As part 
of that process, Ulster Bank refunded the card payment Mr F made and said that if he didnt 
hear back by 14 June 2020 the funds would remain in his account. The claim was ultimately 
referred to Visa, the body that runs the chargeback scheme. 
On 14 July 2020 Ulster Bank contacted Mr F and advised the chargeback hadnt been 
successful. On the same day, the funds held in Mr Fs account were withdrawn and it was 
closed a short time later. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
that the chargeback claim had been declined by Visa which was outside of Ulster Banks 
control. But the investigator thought Ulster Bank shouldve kept Mr F better informed about 
the chargeback process and asked it to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused. The 
investigator also said Ulster Bank may seek to recover the payment it temporarily refunded 
as part of the chargeback claim process. Mr F asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr F that the process of completing his chargeback claim appears to have been 
somewhat confused. Mr F says he provided supporting information and documents to Ulster 
Bank in good time. But Ulster Bank says it didnt receive responses to information requests it 
sent which meant the original chargeback claim wasnt processed. However, after Mr F 
complained, Ulster Bank issued a temporary refund for the disputed transaction and raised a 
chargeback claim via Visa. 
Leaving the outcome to one side for a moment, Ulster Bank also told Mr F that if the funds 
hadnt been reclaimed by 14 June 2020 they would remain in his account. But that wasnt 
correct as the chargeback claim was ultimately referred to Visa which declined it after that 
date had passed. That meant the outcome of the chargeback claim wasnt reached in line 
with the information Ulster Bank provided Mr F in April 2020. I agree with the investigator 
that the communication with Mr F shouldve been better. As the deadline Mr F was given 
passed without the refund being processed, I can understand why he was shocked and 
upset to find out his chargeback claim had been declined. Our investigator upheld Mr Fs 
complaint on that basis and Ulster Bank agreed to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused. Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact of the way Ulster Bank handled Mr Fs 
chargeback claim. 
The central issue in this case revolves around the chargeback claim itself. Whilst the 
outcome was delayed, Visa ultimately decided to decline the chargeback claim. Ulster Bank 
cant decide a chargeback claim that has been submitted to Visa for pre-arbitration. So whilst 
I understand Mr F feels the decision to reject the claim was unfair, Im satisfied that decision 
wasnt one Ulster Bank made. And the claim was declined by Visa in line with the scheme 
rules. So I cant say Ulster Bank made an error on the basis Mr Fs chargeback claim wasnt 
successful. Whilst I agree there was a delay in processing the case, the claim was 
considered in full and referred in line with the chargeback scheme. 
As Ive said above, I agree that Ulster Bank shouldve told Mr F that his chargeback claim 
wasnt resolved on or before 14 June 2020 so he was aware the refund wasnt final. But, I 
dont agree it would be fair for Mr F to keep the refund on that basis. As the chargeback 
claim was declined by Visa, Ulster Bank will likely ask Mr F to repay the funds in question. 
I agree with the investigator that there were processing issues in this case. For the reasons 
Ive given above, I think the £100 award fairly reflects the impact of those issues on Mr F. As 
a result, Im going to uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and tell Ulster Bank to pay him £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ulster Bank Ltd to pay Mr F £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman