DRN-4365522
The complaint
Mr S has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined two claims he made on his 
travel insurance policy due to alleged fraud, has cancelled the policy and requested 
reimbursement of its investigation costs.
What happened
Both of Mr Ss claims stem from the same trip to Pakistan. The first one was a personal 
liability claim relating to a fire in a shop on 25 April 2022. The second one was a medical 
expenses claim relating to an injury he incurred on 9 May 2022. 
Following investigation, UKI concluded that Mr S was acting fraudulently in relation to both 
claims. It therefore declined the claims and cancelled the policy from 25 April 2022. 
Additionally, UKI is seeking reimbursement from Mr S of the £12,021.24 costs of its 
investigations.
Our investigator thought that UKI had acted reasonably and that it was fair that it had relied 
on the available evidence to conclude that the claims were fraudulent.
Mr S disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made lengthy and substantial representations to this service. Im not going to re-
state them all here, although Id like to reassure Mr S that I have read and fully considered 
everything he has provided. Instead, Im going to focus on the heart of the matter, which is 
whether or not UKI has reasonably invoked the fraud condition when declining the claims.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on UKI by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the requirement 
for UKI to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy wording states that:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim which is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any insured person or anyone acting on 
your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated 
claim we may: cancel your insurance; refuse your claim and any future claims; keep any 
premium you have paid.
Personal liability claim
Mr S says that he accidentally dropped a cigarette in a cloth shop which then caused 
damage to some of the stock. Later the same day he attended an oath commissioners office 
with the shopkeeper, signing a document accepting responsibility for the damage. He 
reached agreement with the shopkeeper to compensate him for the amount of just under 9.5 
million Pakistani rupees, which equated to about £36,000 at the time.
UKI commissioned an investigation in Pakistan and Mr S was also interviewed by its 
solicitors in the UK. UKIs concerns stem from a number of discrepancies and 
inconsistencies. Im not going to set them all out here, but they include:
Mr S saying the fire was in a small area in the basement and the flames were no 
more than one metre high. As far as he knew, the shopkeeper had put out the fire by 
standing at the bottom of the stairs and using a fire extinguisher, whilst Mr S was 
standing behind him. But he has supplied a photo taken from street level showing 
more significant flames on the ground floor. Mr S said the image had been given to 
him by the shopkeeper and he couldnt explain it as the damage had not spread to 
that part of the shop when he was there. 
When Mr S first notified UKI of the claim he had said that the fire took almost half an 
hour to extinguish after continuously hard work. But in his later interview hed said the 
fire was out within about five to seven minutes.
Following the inconsistency in the images being pointed out to him, Mr S said the fire 
reignited after he had left, but the shopkeeper never mentioned this to him at the 
time. However, Mr S had already previously stated that, after the fire, he had taken 
the shopkeeper to sit in his friends car to calm down and talk properly. That in turn 
contrasts with what he said at interview, which is that hed left the shop on his own.
UKIs investigators in Pakistan had visited the shop and wider market in which it was 
located and hadnt been able to find any evidence that a fire had occurred.
The compensation agreement states that over 2,000 units of cloth were damaged, 
which would suggest a much larger fire than described by Mr S. And Mr S didnt take 
any steps to verify the level or cost of the damage for himself. Instead, he said he 
trusted that his friend, who was an acquaintance of the shopkeeper, had checked the 
calculations.
There were no photos of the premises after the fire which showed the damage. 
Instead, the shopkeeper provided photos of damaged cloth taken at a location that 
was unknown to Mr S. Mr S assumes the shopkeeper removed the damaged cloth to 
another venue and the photos were taken there.
Following its enquiries, UKI wrote to Mr S on 6 March 2023, asking for clarification on a 
number of points. He was asked to provide any evidence he may have that a fire had 
occurred as he had described. He was also asked to provide further comment on how the 
loss was calculated.
In his written response dated 8 March 2023, Mr S didnt provide any evidence to prove the 
fire had taken place. Instead, he queried the methods and findings of the investigators and 
entered into speculation about what might have happened, such as all the market staff that 
were spoken to being new and how the shop might have moved, or maybe even closed. He 
also mentioned external factors such as inflation. He said he didnt argue that much about 
the cost because he had the peace of mind of being covered by insurance.
Given the nature of the claim, and Mr S still being in touch with the shopkeeper, it should 
have been relatively easy for Mr S to provide some actual evidence to support his position that a fire had occurred as he described. Its not surprising that UKIs concerns were not 
alleviated by Mr Ss response.
Mr S has since tried to further explain the discrepancies and puts them down to 
misunderstandings and miscommunication. He says that human nature means that he was 
never going to remember events precisely and so his account would naturally vary at times. 
But the inconsistencies in this case are significant, rather than Mr S simply mis-remembering 
some minor details. UKI has said that Mr Ss further explanations dont ring true and I agree 
that they lack credibility.
Based on the available evidence, I think that UKI was rightly concerned about the 
information provided by Mr S. It was fair and reasonable for it to undertake further enquiries 
and then to rely on the outcome of those enquiries to conclude that Mr S had knowingly 
provided information that was untrue or misleading with the intention of making financial 
gain. So, it was entitled to enact the fraud condition within the policy to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy.
Medical expenses claim
Theres no doubt that Mr S suffered an injury, because he has provided evidence that he 
sought treatment at a UK hospital the day after returning from Pakistan. The question is 
whether he received and paid for treatment in Pakistan in the way that he stated in his claim.
Again, UKI had concerns about the information that has been provided, which included:
The hospital in Pakistan having no record of treating or discharging Mr S.
Differences in discharge paperwork provided to the investigator for services received 
and that provided by Mr S.
The investigators conclusion that Mr S is related to the owners of the hospital and Mr 
Ss assertion that he is not. Although, Mr S then said that the owners may or may not 
be related to his father-in-law, which he considers to be irrelevant.
Mr S firstly saying that he had not paid his father-in-law back for the cost of the 
treatment because he hadnt asked for it back yet, but then shortly afterwards saying 
that he had paid some of it back.
I appreciate Mr Ss point that there was a misunderstanding in relation to the question he 
was being asked about whether or not he had paid the money back. I also understand Mr 
Ss argument that hospitals in Pakistan may not keep good records or have robust 
administrative procedures, potentially for tax avoidance reasons. 
However, on balance, I dont think Mr S has done enough to prove his claim or settle UKIs 
concerns (which includes the later confirmation letter sent by the hospital in Pakistan in 
relation to Mr Ss complaint). I think that UKIs concerns had a reasonable basis and that it 
was fair for it to rely on the findings of its investigators to conclude that the claim was 
fraudulently made.
Regardless of this, as I consider it was correct of UKI to void the policy as if it had been 
cancelled from the point of the personal liability claim on 25 April 2022, it follows that the 
policy was not in effect at the point of the medical expenses claim. So UKI would not have to 
pay it in any event.
In summary, I am satisfied that it was fair and reasonable of UKI to invoke the fraud 
condition of the policy in relation to both claims.In May 2023, Mr S proposed that UKI could interview him again, this time in Pakistan where 
he was due to be staying until July 2023. He said he had gone to Pakistan in April 2023 
specifically to help the insurer to clear up any discrepancies  although he hadnt arranged 
this in advance with UKI. Alternatively, he would withdraw the claims and UKI could cancel 
the policy on the basis of lack of documentation, or some other such reason, but not fraud.
Although Mr S says that UKI rushed to decline the claims, I dont consider that to be the 
case. It set out its concerns to him and provided him the opportunity to respond with more 
evidence. Although he did respond, it was not with evidence that would cause UKI to change 
its position. So I dont think theres any reason for it to re-open the claims now or to change 
the reason for declining the claims.
I have also carefully considered UKIs claim for recovery of its investigation costs. The ability 
to recover such costs is not specifically referred to in Mr Ss policy terms. However, I dont 
consider it unreasonable for UKI to recover the costs its incurred where such costs are over 
and above the costs it would normally incur in considering claims.  As a result, I find it 
reasonable for it to ask Mr S to pay it £12,021.24.
On another point, Mr S has further complained that, because the policy was part of a 
packaged bank account, his bank has now blocked his current account. Mr S has also 
received notification from other banks that they have also closed his accounts.
The policy wording explains when UKI is sometimes required by law to share information 
about policyholders, which includes to help and detect crime (including the prevention or 
detection of fraud). Given that UKI had concluded that Mr Ss claims were made fraudulently, 
it was reasonable for it to share that information with other financial institutions, which it is 
required to do in the circumstances.
Mr S holds UKI responsible for the difficulties he is now having with banking, because it 
shared his information, However, each individual bank was responsible for the actions they 
decided to take following receipt of the information. So, Mr S would need to take up any 
complaints with those banks directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman