DRN-3014373
The complaint
Mr T complains about his request for a payment holiday on his credit card with Vanquis Bank 
Limited.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr T was struggling to meet his financial commitments due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr T was out of work and was unsure if he would be excepted for the 
furlough scheme, so he contacted Vanquis to ask for help. 
Mr T has complained that at the point he asked Vanquis for help, he was receiving several 
text messages to tell him his account payments were overdue.
Mr T has also complained that he was asked several questions about his financial 
circumstances by Vanquis and replied but got no response. So, Mr T raised a complaint with 
Vanquis. 
Vanquis looked into the complaint and partly upheld it. Vanquis said that although it had an 
obligation to message Mr T to make him aware that his account was over its limit and a 
payment was due, It went on to say that it couldve acted quicker with the financial support it 
put in place. 
Vanquis back dated Mr Ts payment holiday, refunded interest and charges and cleared his 
credit record for the same period. Vanquis also offered £75 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset it caused. 
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Vanquiss offer to be fair. She found 
that Mr T had missed a payment prior to the FCA bringing in the guidance around payment 
holidays  so Vanquis needed to get a better understanding of Mr Ts finances before it 
agreed the payment holiday. Our investigator went on to find that Mr T had been clear in his 
communication to Vanquis that the difficulties he was facing were due to the pandemic, so 
Vanquis shouldve acted sooner. In recognition of this error, our investigator found the 
correction of the payment holiday and the £75 offer of compensation fair. 
Mr T responded to the investigators view to say that the offer of compensation hadnt been 
paid as Vanquis said it would. Our investigator asked for evidence from Vanquis of the 
payment, which it sent us. Mr T still didnt agree the payment had been made, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to issue final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
Vanquis have told Mr T and our service that they couldve done better when dealing with Mr 
Ts request for a payment holiday. This doesnt seem to be in dispute here, so I dont find I 
need to investigate it again. What I do need to make a finding on is whether I think it has 
resolved the complaint fairly. 
Vanquis did ask Mr T several questions relating to his financial commitments and when it 
didnt receive this information back, it did delay the process of getting Mr T support. Ive read 
through the internal contact notes in great length and Im satisfied Vanquis were asking 
these questions in good faith. I say this as it needed to understand that any plan they put in 
place for Mr T didnt put him in a worse position, as any deferral in payment wouldve meant 
the debt would take longer to pay off. 
I can understand Mr Ts frustration that at the point he had lost his job and was struggling 
financially, text messages sent from Vanquis reminding him of his monthly payments added 
to the stress he was already under. But equally I dont find Vanquis have acted unfairly by 
sending these, as Mr Ts account was falling behind, and he wasnt in any kind of plan at this 
point. 
Having said that, Vanquis has acknowledged that it couldve put Mr T on a payment holiday 
earlier. In recognition of its mistake, it has backdated the plan. This is exactly what our 
service would expect to happen in these circumstances  putting Mr T back in the position 
he would have been had the mistake not happened.
Vanquis have gone on to compensate Mr T £75 for the trouble and upset the error caused 
him. Having considered the initial impact of not getting an immediate solution to his financial 
problems and the time it took to put something in place  Im satisfied £75 fairly 
compensates Mr T.
Following our investigators view, Mr T remained unhappy due to the fact he feels he wasnt 
paid the £75 Vanquis offered. Our investigator asked for evidence of the payment and 
Vanquis sent us Mr Ts credit card statement. Ive checked that statement and I can see the 
£75 was credited to his account on 04 August 2020. I can also see that three late payment 
charges for the period of the back dated payment holiday were also refunded. 
In summary, although Vanquis couldve done better when dealing with Mr Ts request for 
financial support, Im satisfied it has corrected the mistake and compensated Mr T fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or require Vanquis to increase its 
compensation amount.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman