DRN-3927329
The complaint
Mr N complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the way 
it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy for a replacement windscreen.
  
What happened
Mr N took out his motor insurance policy through Admiral and a few months later made a 
claim under the windscreen element part of the policy. He had a chip in the windscreen 
which meant the screen needed replacing. 
Admiral appointed its approved windscreen repairer to look at the claim. But Mr N wasnt 
happy about the suggested replacement glass it intended to use. He thought the 
replacement offered didnt match the same quality and approved glass that the manufacturer 
of the car would use. So, he complained to Admiral about this. It said its chosen repairer had 
the capability to repair the glass to the required standard and offered Mr N reassurance that 
the glass would be of the same manufacture specifications and quality as the original 
windscreen. It said the main difference would be that the glass wouldnt carry the 
manufacturers logo. 
When Mr N complained to this Service our investigators looked into things for him but didnt 
uphold his complaint. Although they could understand Mr Ns position they didnt think 
Admiral had done anything wrong in offering to replace the glass through its chosen repairer. 
As Mr N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ns position and why he wants the manufacturers own glass supplied 
and fitted. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to support his position that Admirals chosen 
repairers option isnt an acceptable replacement.
I know Mr N feels the use of Admirals glass would both devalue his car and invalidate the 
warranty. However, Ive considered the information provided by the manufactures garage 
and it doesnt say his car would be worth less but suggests this is a possibility. And it doesnt 
want to release the commercially sensitive data which may back up Mr Ns position that the 
glass wouldnt be acceptable just as Admirals chosen repairer doesnt want to either, which I 
understand. The manufacturers garage has highlighted things that could go wrong but that 
doesnt mean these things would go wrong and obviously the manufacturer wants to 
advocate the use of its own parts and labour.
So, although I can understand why Mr N wants to use the manufactures branded glass I 
dont think Admiral have done anything wrong. And if Mr N had difficulties in the future, if he 
chose to use Admirals repairer to replace the glass, then I would expect Admiral to look into 
it for him and consider putting right any problems caused. But its chosen repairer has a great 
deal of experience in replacing glass in a wide range of vehicles and Im satisfied Admiral 
has gained suitable reassurance about all of this from its repairer. 
Ultimately, Admiral has competitive arrangements with its chosen windscreen repairer, and I 
wouldnt expect it to step outside of this agreement easily. And, although I accept Mr N feels 
the windscreen it offered wasnt of the same specification that doesnt mean the glass 
replacement wasnt suitable. 
Indeed, the policy wording makes it clear under the Cover for your windscreen part of the 
policy that Admiral will pay to repair or replace broken glass in your vehicles windscreen 
and If we need to replace any glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the 
vehicles manufacturer but is of a similar standard and quality. And I feel it has acted in line 
with the policy terms and conditions here. 
Finally, Im aware Mr N feels he may have taken out insurance cover elsewhere if he was 
aware Admiral would have dealt with his claim this way. This aspect hasnt been addressed 
as part of this complaint but I must highlight that most insurance policies operate in a similar 
manner and so I dont think Mr N has been prejudiced here in any event. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman