DRN-2746173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI in September 2011 at the same time as they applied for a
further advance on their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly amount of £59.63 for the policy. The benefit was split, so they
were each covered by the policy for £380 per month. This would have been paid for up to 12
months per claim if they were too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 
2021 and explained that I thought the complaint should be upheld, so I gave Santander and 
Mr and Mrs B an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Santander had to let Mr and Mrs B know the policy was optional and it had to get their 
consent before it applied PPI to their account. The PPI was sold during a telephone
conversation and Mr and Mrs B say that while they were aware the policy was optional and
that they didnt have to have it, they felt pressured into taking it in order to complete their 
application for a further advance.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the pressure they were put under to
take out this policy at the time of the sale. And in this particular case, based on what Mr and
Mrs B have told me about their recollections of the sale, I think its more likely than not they
were pressured into agreeing to it.
Mr and Mrs B already had a PPI policy taken out around the same time as their original
mortgage, through a different provider. Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint point is that they
didnt want another policy, but the representative they spoke to insisted they listen to more
information about the PPI policy he could offer them. They say that after saying no, Mrs B
eventually agreed to listen. Once the representative had finished, Mr and Mrs B say they
reconfirmed that they still didnt want it. But at this point, the representative told them that if
they didnt agree to the PPI, they would need to start their entire further advance application
again.
Mrs B says she had already been on the phone for around two and a half hours and she felt
the representatives tone changed which made her concerned that if she didnt take out the
PPI, shed have to restart the further advance application process afresh. As a result, she
said she felt pressured to agree to the policy in order to complete the application, which is
why Mr and Mrs B think it was mis-sold.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said and I think their testimony is plausible and
persuasive. I asked Santander to provide Mr and Mrs Bs original complaint to them and I
found that they have been consistent in their recollection of the call and what happened at
the time of sale. Considering this policy was sold more recently than most of the PPI sales
we see, in 2011  I dont think its unreasonable to believe that Mr and Mrs B still remember
the sale. Particularly, given the detail theyve provided, and that their recollection of some of
the events is consistent with the paperwork Santander have provided to us for this
investigation.
I asked Santander to confirm whether the policy was sold at the same time as the further
advance and roughly how long such as sale would take. Santander didnt confirm how long a
sale like this would take and they also didnt confirm how long the phone call lasted. They
said that they think its likely the PPI was sold separately and that Mr and Mrs Bs
applications for the further advance and for the PPI would have been completed by different
representatives. But the paperwork Ive seen from the time of sale, including a key facts
document about Mr and Mrs Bs additional borrowing, was produced on the same day as
another document which sets out the details of the phone interview for their PPI.
Considering the documents were produced on the same day and based on what Mr and
Mrs B have told me, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Bs further advance and
PPI application were completed during the same phone call. Given Mr and Mrs B have told
us that they refused the PPI more than once and made it clear they didnt want it, it sounds
like the representative may have gone further than he ought to when attempting to persuade
Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy.
I also think the fact they already held similar cover for Mr B adds to the plausibility of their 
testimony. Their existing policy covered Mr B for £350 per month  a similar amount to the
cover offered by this policy, but at a lower cost, currently, around £20.53  possibly less at
the time. So, the need for the policy they were offered was significantly reduced. And this
wasnt their first mortgage related borrowing with Santander  in their earlier mortgage, they
didnt take out PPI through Santander.
Ive thought about whether they chose to take out the policy in 2011 because they were
borrowing more money. But the additional cost of their new borrowing was only £150.17 per
month. So, if they knew the policy was optional and would offer little more benefit to Mr B, I
think this supports what they say  that they agreed to the policy, not because they thought
they needed it, but because they had no option but to take it out in order to finalise their 
application for a further advance.
Mr and Mrs B didnt cancel the cover. They said the representative told them they could
cancel it later, but that if they did, they might have to take out a different policy. Mr and Mrs B
say this is when the representative became less friendly and abrupt. The evidence confirms
Mr and Mrs B tried to reduce the cover around one year after it was sold, and the records
reference them explaining that Mr B already had similar cover. Its not clear why this didnt
happen. But again, I think this points to them having taken out a policy they did not want.
So, I think Mr and Mrs B agreed to the policy initially because they felt pressured into taking
it out. Had the sale occurred as expected, I dont think theyd have agreed to it. So I think
Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of what Santander did wrong
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr and Mrs B did not respond to my provisional decision. Santander raised a number of 
points which I have considered. 
Santander says the PPI was a standalone policy with a separate application. That while the 
policy sale could happen on the same day as the mortgage application, its a separate 
application. That the rejection of the policy would not have, in any way, affected Mr and 
Mrs Bs further advance application. It added that while the key facts document and the 
phone interview record may have been completed on the same day, it was made clear the 
PPI was optional and it was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to accept or decline the PPI.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B say that the application for their further 
advance and the PPI were completed during the same phone call and that in this call, Mrs B 
was encouraged to listen to further information about the PPI even though she said she 
didnt want to. That after discussing the PPI, she was led to believe she would need to start 
their application for the further advance afresh if she didnt agree to the PPI. Mr and Mrs B 
have given a detailed and consistent explanation of the phone call, so I think its more likely 
than not, that this is what happened in their specific call and that Mrs B felt they couldnt 
proceed with their further advance without starting the process again. 
Santander says it cant comment on the policy Mr B already held, but that Mr and Mrs B 
would have had their reasons for taking out the additional policy. It says it finds it improbable 
they didnt cancel the policy as they were advised they might have had to take a different 
policy, and particularly because it says Mrs B came off the policy less than a year after it 
commenced, and that the policy could have been cancelled at the same time. 
I have thought about this, but I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have wanted a PPI policy 
that provided similar cover to one that they already had, which cost less. Santander did not 
previously say that Mrs B was removed from the policy, but I have seen records to show 
they attempted to remove Mr B from the policy. I think its more likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs B edited the level of cover to reduce the cost, as they continued to pay for the policy 
they already held  they didnt make any changes to their existing policy. I think this supports 
their comments about thinking they had to keep a policy with Santander even if they didnt 
need it.
In addition, Santander says its records also show that Mr B applied for a similar policy in 
2005, but that policy never commenced. That Mr B would have had to set that application 
aside or cancel the policy before it commenced, and it thinks this shows that Mr B knew that 
the existing Santander policy could have been cancelled at any time without any penalty. 
Mr B chose not to proceed with an earlier policy with Santander and instead arranged his 
own policy with a different provider  which covered him for a similar amount to the cover 
that was arranged with Santander later, in 2011. Mrs B says that she only agreed to the 
Santander policy because the representative said she would need to complete their 
application for a further advance afresh, during what had already been a lengthy phone call. 
So, I dont think Mr Bs choice not to proceed with a policy a number of years earlier, would 
have had any bearing on what happened during the phone call Mrs B has described. 
Ive thought carefully about the additional points Santander has raised. But, for the reasons 
explained above, I still think Mr and Mrs B agreed to the policy because Mrs B felt pressured 
into taking it out. Had the sale occurred as expected, whether Mr and Mrs B chose to amend 
the policy later, or could have cancelled it, I dont think theyd have agreed to it at the time of 
sale. So, I think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of what Santander did wrong.Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman