DRN-3050908
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly increased the credit limit on
her credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms M says she has no issue with Aquas decision to allow her to open a credit card account
in 2016 with a credit limit of £250. But she says some months later her credit limit was
increased to over £1,000 which was unaffordable and the decision irresponsible. Ms M says
it would have been obvious she was in financial difficulties at the time and would like Aqua to
remove adverse information from her credit file and close the account. She says she had
health problems at the time.
Aqua says Ms M applied for the account in March 2016 and declared an income of £18,000
a year. It says it checked her credit file and calculated her debt at £2,700 and noted she had
no arrears on other accounts. It also says it had been some years before the application that
adverse information appeared on her credit file and gave Ms M a credit limit of £250. Aqua
says it increased that limit in July 2016 to £1,160 and Ms M manged her account
appropriately but did make a late payment. It says Ms M told it in November 2016 that she
had lost her job and it sent her an income/expenditure form to try and help her, but it wasnt
returned, and no contact was made. A default was registered in 2017.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The
investigator thought the initial lending was affordable, but the increase wasnt and that Aqua
should have considered it in more detail. The investigator thought the increase was
significant and Aqua ought to have considered that there were late payments and over limit
charges before that increase. The investigator recommended the interest and charges be
refunded and adverse information removed from Ms Ms credit file.
Ms M accepts that view but Aqua doesnt. It says Ms M made more than the required
payments before the increase and although was late on one occasion, paid more than the
required amount within days.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I came to the provisional view 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any credit or lending applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of lending. And I wouldnt have expected Aquas checks to have been 
as detailed here compared to for example a mortgage or loan application, as this was a 
credit facility.
I looked at Aquas records and could see Ms M told it she was in employment with an
income of £18,000 a year and that it calculated her debt at about £2,700. I could also see
Aqua did carry out checks on Ms Ms credit file and that there wasnt any recent adverse
information contained on it. So, I was satisfied Aqua did carry out reasonable and
proportionate checks on Ms Ms application and that on the face of it the lending was
affordable and so not irresponsible. I was satisfied that Aqua approved what I thought was a
modest credit limit of £250.
I looked carefully at the account statements from the account being opened to the
credit limit increase. I was satisfied that overall the account was reasonably well managed. I
saw that in April 2016 Ms M spent just under £50 and made a payment of just over £200
the following month which covered her spending in May 2016. I didnt think Ms M used the
full balance every month and although there were two late payments  they were both made
shortly after the due date. And there were payments significantly more than the required
payments. I accepted Ms Ms account management wasnt perfect, but I didnt think Aqua 
acted irresponsibly by approving the credit limit increase and was reasonably entitled to 
consider the information it considered from the account opening in addition to the account
management.
I was satisfied that Aqua approved what I thought was still a relatively modest credit limit of 
just over a £1,000 which I thought was affordable in the circumstances.
I appreciated that after the credit limit increase Ms M used the full balance available to her
and shortly afterwards didnt make required payments. I thought it likely on balance that Ms 
M lost her job which she told Aqua about in November 2016 and that it likely that she may 
have had spending problems which Aqua was unaware of and couldnt have been aware of 
unless Ms M told it about it.
I looked at Ms Ms bank account statements and could see there were significant amounts of 
payments to gambling companies during 2016 to 2017. I appreciated its up to Ms M to 
decide what she spends her money on but thought it likely on balance that her financial 
position may have been affected by that spending.  I said Ms M could provide her views on 
that point before my final decision and if it was that spending that caused the financial 
difficulties.
Overall my provisional view was that Aqua did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Ms Ms application and the later decision to increase the credit limit. I said I had 
not seen any evidence of financial hardship at the time of the lending decision and having 
looked at Ms Ms credit file, thought the financial difficulties came sometime after those 
decisions in early 2016 were made. I made clear that I thought the credit limits offered by 
Aqua were modest and on the face of it affordable.
Aqua says it doesnt wish to make any further representations.
Ms M doesnt accept my provisional view and says it doesnt matter if she was able to make 
the payments as that doesnt mean the lending was affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same decision that I reached in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman