DRN-1992514
The complaint
Miss M has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she opened a store credit card in January 2004. 
What happened
Miss M took out her store card in January 2004 whilst she was in a store. At the same time, 
she was sold a PPI policy associated with the credit card account. Miss M has now 
complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld her complaint. 
Miss M wasnt happy with AXAs response, so she brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Miss Ms 
complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Miss M took out her credit card and the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form that Miss M completed. 
I can see there is a section on the form headed Payment Protection Insurance Application. 
This contains the following statement: Yes I would like to protect my Account with Payment 
Protection (subject to eligibility). Please debit my account with the relevant monthly premium 
until further notice. The cost of the Payment Protection is a % of your outstanding balance 
based on 89p per £100 each month.
I cannot be certain what, if any additional information would have been provided at the time 
in store to Miss M. The form itself has been completed in typeface, so must have been 
completed and printed out by the store when Miss M was making the credit card application. 
I think it unlikely the store assistant would have provided any detail about PPI at the time, so 
Miss M would only have seen and known what was stated on the form.
Looking at the form and the information I can see was provided, I am not totally certain that 
Miss M would have been clear she had a choice about taking out the PPI. Nowhere does it 
describe or say the PPI is optional. And it isnt clear that the credit card account can be 
applied for without the Payment Protection also being applied for. There isnt a No box to 
select in the PPI section, only a Yes box. And this Yes box has been type filled, not 
selected by hand by Miss M.
In addition to being concerned about whether it was made clear to Miss M she had a choice 
about the PPI, I am also not persuaded that Miss M was provided with adequate information 
about the policy to make an informed decision whether to take it out. 
The only information provided on the form was that Miss M had to meet eligibility criteria  
which wasnt provided - and there was some basic information about how the cost was 
worked out. From the information provided by Miss M she did meet the basic criteria and so 
was eligible for the policy, even though she wasnt informed of the criteria at the point of 
sale.
AXA has told us that full information would have been sent in the post to Miss M about costs, 
benefits and any restrictions. But that information was needed at the point of sale to enable 
Miss M to make an informed decision whether to take out the PPI or not. She agreed to take 
out the policy when she signed the application form.
I cannot see that Miss M was given full information about the cost and any information about 
the benefits of the policy at the point she took it out. I dont think it was clear to Miss M from 
the application form that interest would be paid on any premiums charged to her account if 
she didnt clear her balance.
Looking at Miss Ms other circumstances, she has told us she had been in the same role for 
just under two years and she would have been entitled to good benefits, of up to 12 months 
sick pay, if she had needed to take time off sick. 
AXA says as Miss M had not been in her role for more than five years her benefits would 
have been less than she has indicated for sickness. However, there is no evidence provided 
by AXA, despite the contact information Miss M provided that was passed to AXA, that her 
benefits were limited. Since 1997, in local government, during the second year of service 
there would have been at least four months sick pay. So I think it quite likely Miss M had 
reasonably good benefits at the time she applied for her store card.
At the point of sale AXA had to make sure that Miss M got the information she needed to 
allow her to decide if the PPI was right for her. And I dont think it did provide adequate 
information, or any information, to allow Miss M to understand the full cost and benefits of 
the PPI policy and any restrictions that applied. As I have indicated earlier I also have 
concerns that it wasnt fully clear to Miss M she had a choice about taking out the PPI and 
she actually chose to take it out.
Because of Miss Ms employment, I dont think she would have taken out the PPI if she had 
been provided with adequate and clear information about the costs and benefits and also 
that she had a choice whether to take out the PPI.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think better information about the PPI would 
have put Miss M off taking out the cover and so I think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So 
AXA needs to put Miss M as far as possible in the position shed be in if shed not been sold 
any PPI.Miss M borrowed extra in the months when the PPI premium was added to her account, and 
she paid interest on those premiums when the account wasnt cleared. Miss M needs to get 
back all the extra shes paid for the PPI. 
So AXA should work out what Miss M actually paid for the cost of the PPI. I understand the 
total premiums paid during the life of the policy was £55.49. In addition, any interest or 
charges caused by the premiums must be calculated and the total cost of the PPI must be 
paid back to Miss M. 
AXA must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Miss M didnt have use of 
the money paid for the PPI. This is worked out on each amount paid for the PPI from the 
date Miss M paid the PPI cost until the date she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a 
year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and AXA must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Miss M by AXA France IARD and compensation should be calculated and paid to Miss M 
as I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman