DRN-3097128
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) under her home emergency 
policy. Her complaint is that DG didnt set up the policy correctly and wasnt then able to 
offer cover at the same price.
This decision relates to DG as the insurer of the policy. When Mrs C took out her policy she 
did so online, through an energy company (S). S doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service, so this decision only relates to DG.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs C went online to take out a home emergency policy (boiler, radiator 
and service cover) through S. She thought the policy had been put in place (to come into 
effect in March 2020 at an annual cost of £165.75) from an online confirmation sent by S. 
But she subsequently didnt hear anything and no payments were taken from the account 
whose details she provided. She contacted S, who said that they had no record of the policy 
having been taken out. Mrs C then contacted DG with a view to their setting up a policy. But 
they were unable to do so because of problems with Ss IT systems.
DG agreed to register a complaint from Mrs C about what had happened. They issued a final 
response to Mrs C in August 2020, upholding her complaint. They acknowledged that there 
had been a technical issue with Ss systems which had meant that home emergency policies 
(with DG as the insurer) hadnt been taken out in the way that they should. While the issue 
was with Ss IT systems, DG apologised to Mrs C and said that they would contact her to 
offer to arrange a policy and would waive the usual 30-day wait period. 
  
Following their final response, Mrs C called DG and there was a discussion on how to set up 
the policy, and to contact S. But Mrs C was still unable to set up a policy, so took out a policy 
with another provider.
Unhappy at the service shed received from DG and that she hadnt been able to take out a 
policy, Mrs C complained to this service in February 2021. She was unhappy at the failure to 
set up a policy and with the level of customer service provided. Shes had to take out cover 
with another provider at a higher cost. She asked that DG cover the cost of her policy with 
the other provider for at least one year.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She concluded that the issues that 
prevented Mrs C from successfully taking out a policy lay with Ss IT systems, not 
with DG themselves. She noted that DG had tried to help Mrs C to take out a policy 
but that, due to the same problems with Ss systems, they hadnt been able to do this. 
The investigator therefore thought that DG hadnt done anything wrong. She noted 
that S had since said that the issues with their systems had been resolved, so Mrs C 
could contact DG for their help in taking out a policy should she still wish to do so.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt think DG had set up the policy as they had offered to do and 
werent honouring a contract theyd entered into with her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG has acted fairly towards Mrs C. As stated earlier, S 
doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service so we cant consider their actions. I know 
that this is frustrating for Mrs C, particularly as its clear from the evidence Ive seen that the 
reason Mrs C was unable to take out a policy [with DG] lay with Ss systems. This fact has 
been acknowledged by S.
Mrs Cs main issue is that DG didnt honour the contract she believes was entered into when 
she took out her policy online, both initially and then subsequently around the time of her 
complaint to DG. I can see from the confirmation she received from S that she would have 
thought the policy had been set up. However, this was an automatically generated response 
and the system issues with S meant that no policy had been set up, which is why Mrs C 
didnt hear anything (or have any payments taken in respect of the premium).  I can also 
understand her frustration at not being able to find out what had happened.
Ive thought carefully about DGs actions and whether they treated Mrs C fairly. I can see 
that they treated her concerns as a complaint and that they did try to help Mrs C set up a 
policy and offered to waive the usual 30-day wait period before cover started. Ive also noted 
from their case notes that despite the difficulties in trying to set up the policy, theres an 
indication that  should Mrs C have had a problem with her boiler in the period that she had 
sought to take out the policy - they would have covered it, despite a policy not being in place. 
I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Mrs C also argues that DG failed to honour a contract, given that shed taken out a policy 
online through S and received the confirmation email from them. While I can appreciate Mrs 
Cs view, particularly given the automated response email she received from S, her details 
werent passed by S to DG so they couldnt set up a policy (and therefore a contract). And 
while Mrs C provided account details from which the policy premiums were to have been 
taken, no payments were collected, which also meant there wasnt a contract.
 
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that DG havent acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances of the complaint. While I can understand Mrs Cs unhappiness, I cant say 
that theyve done anything wrong and ask them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman