DRN-2903184
The complaint
Miss W complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced the limit on her credit card 
from £1,450 to £300.
What happened
In April 2021, Barclays wrote to Miss W to say that it regularly reviews the information it has 
for customers, to make sure their credit limits are manageable. It told Miss W that it was 
going to lower her limit from £1,450 to £300. The letter included a highlighted box which said 
If you send us your latest income we can review this change and told her how to do this. 
Miss W complained. Barclays replied to say that it didnt believe her current limit was 
appropriate. It explained that it was asking for proof of income so it could review this. It 
asked her to send proof as soon as possible, and said without it, it couldnt overturn the 
decision to reduce the limit.
Miss W didnt return the information Barclays needed. Instead, she complained to this 
service. She said her circumstances hadnt changed, and she never missed payments and 
always cleared her balance. She said Barclays decision was unjustified and unfair. She also 
said she had mobility issues so relied on the card financially.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He looked at the evidence Barclays had 
provided, and said that Miss Ws account had been selected by one of its credit limit 
decrease campaigns, because Barclays couldnt verify Miss Ws income. Miss W hadnt 
returned the requested information about her income within the four week deadline.
But the investigator also told Miss W that Barclays had told him that, in view of the 
information about Miss Ws personal situation, it would, exceptionally, review her account 
past the original deadline. So the investigator forwarded the form to Miss W. He said she 
could return the form and supporting documents through this service if she preferred. Theyd 
then be reviewed by Barclays in the normal way, in line with Barclays obligations as a 
responsible lender.
Miss W didnt accept this. She said Barclays shouldnt need more information to review the 
decision to reduce her credit limit, because it should already be aware of her circumstances. 
She wasnt happy that Barclays assumed she couldnt afford the higher credit figure, and 
she asked for an ombudsman decision. 
Miss W also said she wanted to provide more information to the ombudsman, but she didnt 
contact us again within the timescales requested by the investigator, either with information 
or to say she wanted more time. So Ill consider Miss Ws complaint on the information I 
have available.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws credit card is governed by terms and conditions, which she agreed to when 
opening the account. Section 6 Credit limit says: 
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and history, 
information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive from credit 
reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant. 
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it 
from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
So Barclays had the right to review and reduce Miss Ws credit limit.
And Section 12. Managing your credit limit says
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we 
have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). We wont 
reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any transactions 
authorised but not yet charged to your account.
Ive checked to make sure that Barclays didnt reduce Miss Ws credit limit to less than her 
total outstanding balance, as the terms and conditions say. Her monthly spend was lower 
than £300 in April 2021 when Barclays sent its limit reduction letter. It had also been below 
£300 for many months before that. And Barclays gave Miss W notice. So I find that Barclays 
kept to the terms and conditions when it reduced Miss Ws limit.
Its not clear to me why Miss W didnt provide Barclays with the proof of income that it asked 
her to provide. Shes said she shouldnt need to, because her circumstances hadnt changed 
and Barclays should know what those are. But I find that its reasonable for Barclays to 
conduct periodic checks, and to expect Miss W to provide relevant evidence.
I note that Miss W said she had mobility issues so she relied on the card financially. So Ive 
looked at her statements, and in 2020 and 2021 (to date) shed spent under £300 apart from 
one month when shed spent £300.15. So I cant conclude the new £300 limit would cause 
her a significant detriment, or have any impact on her previous pattern of spending. 
I also consider Barclays acted very fairly when it said in June 2021 that in view of Miss Ws 
statement that she relied on the card because of her mobility issues, it would make an 
exception and still consider any evidence she provided, even though the deadline had 
passed. This wasnt a guarantee that Miss W could keep her previous limit, because 
whatever she provided would still be considered under the banks normal lending criteria  
which is in line with the obligations for Barclays to lend responsibly. But Miss W didnt 
complete the form and return it with the necessary proof of income.
So I find that Barclays didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman