DRN-2692377
The complaint
Mr Rs representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by 
Dewhurst Torevell & Co Limited to transfer his Group Personal Pension (GPP) pension 
funds into a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2007. Further, it has said that he was 
then advised to invest in unsuitable investment funds, and that Mr R was given inadequate 
information regarding the fess which would be incurred.
What happened
Mr R contacted Dewhurst Torevell in 2007 to learn his options with regard to his pension 
funds. Mr R reached age 60 in July 2007, which meant that he became entitled to begin 
drawing on his GPP benefits. Mr Rs GPP fund was valued at £58,451 in a retirement quote 
which had been sent to him by the GPP provider in June 2007.
In May 2007, Dewhurst Torevell had sent Mr R a letter confirming that, for funds valued at 
less than £200,000, the usual course of action would be to buy an annuity. The options 
presented to Mr R were based on the known information about him, and Dewhurst Torevell 
said that this shouldnt be considered to be advice. If Mr R wanted a full advisory process, he 
was invited to contact it.
But in July 2007, Mr R confirmed that he wished to access his tax free lump sum, without 
beginning to take an income. Mr R would continue his employment, and was also receiving 
pension income from another scheme.
Mr R wrote a letter to the GPP provider on 11 July 2007, saying that he wished to transfer 
his pension funds to the new SIPP provider and its income drawdown plan.
On 14 July 2007, Dewhurst Torevell sent a suitability report to Mr R, in which it advised 
against the transfer of Mr Rs funds for the purpose of entering into income drawdown. It said 
that income drawdown wasnt suitable in view of Mr Rs circumstances and that any 
subsequent decision to proceed would be Mr Rs own.
Mr R signed an execution only form on 27 July 2007, and the transfer of his funds then 
proceeded. Mr R received £15,153 in tax free cash, and the remaining fund was placed in 
cash as no advice had been requested, or given, as to which funds would be suitable for 
investment.
Mr R then rejoined his employers GPP, after which Dewhurst Torevell contacted him in 
November 2007 and January 2008 to remind him that his funds remained in cash. Mr R 
replied to this in January 2008, saying that he would likely need some advice on how to 
invest his pension funds.
Dewhurst Torevell addressed this by saying that it couldnt assist unless it was aware of his 
particular circumstances and objectives.
  
Dewhurst Torevell did, however, set out an investment strategy which would be suitable for a 
client who was prepared to accept short term volatility and who would like a balanced 
portfolio, which would include some higher risk investments. And Mr R then confirmed in an 
email dated 15 February 2008 that hed like to invest on that basis.
In July 2012, Mr R took the full benefits from his SIPP and bought an annuity.
Mr R then complained on the above detailed basis, through his representative, in March 
2019. Dewhurst Torevell responded in April 2019, rejecting the complaint. Mr Rs 
representative then referred the matter to this service, and once Dewhurst Torevell had 
accepted the investigators view that the matter had been raised in time, the investigator set 
out her view on the merits as follows:
With regard to the transfer, the investigator said that, whilst Dewhurst Torevell 
offered to provide Mr R with formal advice, the available evidence didnt support the 
position that Mr R had accepted this. There was, for example, no signed 
documentation to suggest that advice had been given.
The correspondence which did pass between Mr R and Dewhurst Torevell did make 
it reasonably clear that a transfer would be unsuitable and that it couldnt advise Mr R 
to proceed on the basis of the risks and fees being too high. This was further 
emphasised in emails and telephone calls.
The investigator also noted the execution only declaration signed by Mr R on 27 
July 2007. This confirmed that Mr R had asked Dewhurst Torevell to arrange the 
investment detailed below without seeking advice and without receiving any 
adviceas to suitability to my personal circumstances or objectives. 
Although the investigator acknowledged the representatives comment that Dewhurst 
Torevell had presented the transfer to a SIPP as being a very good idea, again she 
didnt think that the available evidence supported this.
In terms of the complaint about investment advice, she said that, as Dewhurst 
Torevell hadnt provided any transfer advice, and so didnt have any details about Mr 
Rs personal circumstances (including attitude to risk and capacity for loss), it didnt 
have enough information to be able to make investment recommendations.
Dewhurst Torevell nevertheless needed to make it clear to Mr R that his funds would 
remain in cash, pending reinvestment. But the investigator was satisfied that it had 
done so in the letter dated 6 August 2007. This confirmed that the transfer had been 
undertaken on an execution only basis and that no investment advice had been 
provided. But it also said that, if Mr R wished to discuss the investment of the 
pension funds, Dewhurst Torevell would need further information from Mr R, and 
specifically his current circumstances, his objectives in retirement and his attitude to 
risk.
The investigator noted the further two instances of contact from Dewhurst Torevell in 
November 2007 and January 2008 which reminded Mr R that his pension funds 
werent invested, but also offered formal advice to ensure his funds were invested 
appropriately. However, the evidence indicated that Mr R declined those offers and 
opted to choose funds from a generic list provided to him.
Dewhurst Torevell facilitated this for Mr R, but explained that it would be done on an 
execution only basis. It reiterated that it would proceed without discussion or advice 
and assumption that [Mr R is] happy with short term loss.
As Dewhurst Torevell wasnt responsible for the funds chosen by Mr R, the 
investigator also thought that it wouldnt have been responsible for the amount of 
fees he would be paying on each fund. This was an aspect which would only have 
been considered if it had given investment advice.
Mr Rs representative disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:Mr R approached Dewhurst Torevell as it was the business appointed by his 
employer to handle employees pension affairs.
Mr R didnt have the level of financial knowledge and experience to transfer his GPP 
benefits to a SIPP of his own accord. 
Dewhurst Torevell would receive commission of 3% of the total funds invested, and 
therefore had a strong interest in the transfer proceeding.
Dewhurst Torevell went further than suggesting funds by recommending both a 
favoured strategy and fund allocation. It questioned whether Dewhurst Torevell 
should have gone this far without assessing Mr Rs personal circumstances.
Further fund recommendations were made from 2008 onwards, which represented a 
continuation of Dewhurst Torevells relationship with Mr R, rather than any change in 
the relationship.
As agreements not been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transfer from Mr Rs GPP
Its been asserted by Mr Rs representative that, although it was its understanding that the 
investigator had seen little evidence that Dewhurst Torevell provided advice to transfer, Mr R 
didnt have the knowledge or experience to transfer his pension. But there are a couple of 
problems with this position. Firstly, I dont think this is a matter of there being little evidence 
that Dewhurst Torevell advised on the transfer. Other than Mr Rs and his representatives 
assertion that it did, there is Im afraid no evidence that Dewhurst Torevell advised Mr R to 
transfer his GPP. On the contrary the available evidence suggests that it advised against the 
transfer.
But in the unlikely event that a different interpretation of the above is possible, the 
documentary evidence in the review questionnaire and the suitability report suggests that Mr 
R wanted to access his tax free cash, without taking an income, for personal expenditure. 
And that this was his own specific request, as also indicated by Mr Rs confirmation of this in 
July 2007. Im therefore satisfied, on the balance of the available evidence, that it was Mr Rs 
own objective to access his tax free cash, rather than one which had been suggested by 
Dewhurst Torevell. Furthermore, Im satisfied that the evidence supports the position that it 
was Mr R who wished to transfer the GPP benefits to achieve this.
In terms of Mr R not having the knowledge and experience to understand what he was 
doing, I accept the point being made, but I dont think this was a particularly complex 
transaction. It wasnt a transfer of one kind of benefits to another, for example defined 
benefits to money purchase, which might have required more careful consideration as to 
whether it was, even on an execution only basis, in Mr Rs best interests. 
And on that particular point, there are arguably some instances where it might be so clearly 
against someones best interests to facilitate the transaction, even on an execution only or 
insistent client basis. And some defined benefit transfers, or perhaps very high risk 
investments which are wholly unsuited to an individuals circumstances, might fit that bill. But 
I dont think this was the case here. Mr R wasnt drawing anything other than his tax free 
cash for personal expenditure, and so the remaining fund would continue to be held in a 
similar money purchase manner to that which had existed before. Mr R would still be able to annuitise his remaining fund value if he wished (and as I understand he ultimately did), 
and so that guaranteed income option would remain available to him.
But the suitability report also clearly set out the nature of the options available to Mr R, and 
that whilst Dewhurst Torevell was able to recommend a SIPP provider, it couldnt 
recommend that he proceed with the income drawdown route. And it didnt think that leaving 
the residual fund invested as opposed to buying a guaranteed annuity would be in Mr Rs 
best interests. It made it clear that any decision to proceed would be on an execution only 
basis, and that the post-transfer funds would remain in cash, pending any further instruction 
from Mr R or request for formal investment advice. 
And so I think it was clear enough that it was Dewhurst Torevells position that he shouldnt 
proceed, and as with the investigator, I dont think the available evidence supports the 
position that there was encouragement to do otherwise. 
That Dewhurst Torevell told Mr R that it couldnt recommend the transfer is, however, 
somewhat anomalous to an execution only assertion, in that I think its arguable that 
Dewhurst Torevell did stray into advice here. A true execution only transaction might 
normally take the form of no opinion on the merits of a transfer being expressed, other than 
the advising business being unable, or unwilling, to provide advice. Advice to not transfer 
then being unheeded would more likely fall under the category of insistent client business.
But even if I conclude that Dewhurst Torevell did provide advice here, this was to not 
proceed with the transfer, and so for hopefully obvious reasons, this doesnt assist the 
argument put forward by Mr R and his representative that Mr R was unsuitably advised to 
transfer his GPP. 
Having said that it couldnt recommend the transfer, Dewhurst Torevell did then recommend 
that Mr R use a particular SIPP provider if he wished to proceed. But I dont think the 
business acted inappropriately here. The contemporaneous records indicate that Mr R 
wished to proceed with the transfer to access his tax free cash, and so Dewhurst Torevell 
then assisted by recommending a suitable provider. Whether the recommended SIPP 
provider was suitable for Mr R is a different matter, so Ive considered this further.
Was the SIPP provider a suitable choice for Mr R?
One of Dewhurst Torevells observations in providing this recommendation was that it might 
be difficult to find a SIPP provider which was willing to accept a fund value below £100,000. 
But it identified the particular SIPP provider it recommended as being one which would, and 
it further outlined the benefits of it as being its online platform - but with direct contacts 
should this be needed - and that Dewhurst Torevell could link its portfolio management 
software to the providers network so it could keep Mr Rs plan automatically up to date.
The recommended provider was a mainstream, regulated, reputable company, which, 
according to Dewhurst Torevell, offered competitive costs/charging structure. And having 
considered those charges against the fund value being transferred, they dont seem 
excessive, especially in the context of the pre-pension freedoms landscape in which the 
recommendation was given. 
And so I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the choice of SIPP provider for the 
pension funds was unsuitable.
Investment adviceI think it was sufficiently clear from the content of the suitability report and the reminders in 
November 2007 and January 2008 that Mr Rs pension funds were held on deposit. As a 
reminder, Dewhurst Torevell had confirmed that it was unable to provide investment advice 
without knowledge of Mr Rs personal circumstances and objectives.
In response to Mr Rs reply to the email of January 2008, Dewhurst Torevell did then 
suggest generic information on funds. Again, its a fine line here between information 
provision and advice, but I do think it was clear enough that the suggestion was being made 
in the absence of information which would be required to give a personal recommendation. 
And I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to penalise Dewhurst Torevell for trying to be 
helpful here. It was under no obligation to make any suggestions, and in the absence of this, 
Mr R would have needed to research his own options  which was of course open to him in 
any case, irrespective of Dewhurst Torevells fund suggestions.
Mr R confirmed that hed like to proceed with the suggestion made by Dewhurst Torevell, 
and my understanding is that it was at this point that the 3% fee was taken from the invested 
funds.
And so, on the basis of the available evidence, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
Dewhurst Torevell either gave personalised, formal advice to invest in any particular funds, 
or that in making suggestions as to generic fund choices, it acted inappropriately. 
There is then the matter of the later recommendations made by Dewhurst Torevell, as 
highlighted by Mr Rs representative in its response to the investigators view. And having 
read the content of the reviews, I think it would be difficult to argue that Dewhurst Torevell 
wasnt recommending a particular fund switch. But I think that, in this particular instance, 
theres an important distinction to be made between initial fund advice and subsequent fund 
switches based on selections already agreed and made by Mr R. To clarify, had the fund 
switches been from one type of asset or holding to something markedly different, I think it 
would have been prudent to assess Mr Rs circumstances and objectives at that time. 
Indeed, its often a change in circumstances or objectives which might necessitate this type 
of course of action.
But this wasnt the case here. For example, in February 2011, on the basis of its own 
observations on the performance of one fund, Dewhurst Torevell was recommending a 
transfer from this to another which was quite similar in nature, but had a slightly different 
holding in specific equities. As Dewhurst Torevell said in its review letter dated 8 February 
2011, this will not represent a material change in the level of risk attaching.
Fees
Ive noted that Dewhurst Torevell would receive an initial fee of 3%, and a separate charge 
of £500 plus VAT. It would then receive a further 0.5% pa of the funds value thereafter. This 
fee structure was clearly set out in the suitability report. And so Mr R was seemingly 
accepting of the fees which would be charged for the service provided by Dewhurst Torevell.
As Ive said above, I dont think that the costs levied by the chosen SIPP provider were 
inappropriate for Mr R or for his size of fund.
As to the matter of the charges attached to individual funds, and to what extent Dewhurst 
Torevell should have disclosed these to Mr R, again I think this boils down to the context in 
which they were being suggested. Had Dewhurst Torevell given a personalised 
recommendation, I would have expected it to clearly disclose the overall charging structure 
of its advice, which would have included individual fund costs. But it wasnt, in 2007, 
providing a personal recommendation, and Mr R was aware of this.It was open to Mr R, of course, to research the funds further to see if they were appropriate 
for him. And this would have revealed the relevant fund management charges. But theres in 
any case nothing from the list of fairly mainstream funds which would flag, in my view, 
inherent unsuitability from a cost perspective and which might reasonably indicate that, had 
specific fund information been provided to Mr R, he would have made a different decision.
As to the later fund switches, there was, as far as I can tell, no significant difference in fund 
management costs, and again, not in any case to the extent that if such differences had 
been made explicit, they would in my view have caused Mr R to act differently.  
As such, I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint on the basis 
of either the level, or the non-disclosure, of costs within the SIPP.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman