DRN-4112691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) declined part of a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy for a drain problem.
Reference to RSA includes its agents and representatives.
Mrs C has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to her only.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs C noticed a problem with the drainage system at her home. She asked a 
company to help. They said they cleared the drains and the system seemed to be 
working as normal again.
Several months later, the problem returned, and Mrs C got in touch with RSA. It had 
a drainage survey carried out.
RSA said the problem had primarily been caused by deformed and blistered pitch 
fibre pipework, which isnt covered because it had reached the end of its serviceable 
life due to general wear and tear. It also said root ingress had contributed to the 
problem and that was covered. It offered to pay cash for this so Mrs C could put it 
toward the overall cost of putting the drainage right.
Mrs C didnt think it was fair for RSA to decline to deal with the pitch fibre problem.
Our investigator thought RSA had acted fairly. He said that whilst the policy didnt 
specifically exclude pitch fibre, it did exclude gradual deterioration  and thats what 
had happened.
Mrs C disagreed and made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
oWhen she first got in touch with RSA, it said she had cover under accidental 
damage.
oShe should be covered under the accidental damage section of the policy 
because the pitch fibre problem was unforeseen and unintentional. She had 
no knowledge of the materials used for the drains.
oBased on the age of her property, RSA ought to have known it had pitch fibre 
pipe drains and highlighted this to her.
oThe policy wasnt clear that this type of pitch fibre pipe problem wouldnt be 
covered.
oShe wasnt aware of a problem with the drains until they blocked. She took 
reasonable steps as soon as she could.
oMrs C and her family have had a number of health problems and other 
difficult circumstances and the cost of dealing with the drainage problem has 
diverted money away from other important uses. So RSA declining her claim 
has had a significant impact on her at a very difficult time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers accidental breakage of drains and pipes. It also covers 
accidental damage to your buildings and the policy treats the drainage system as 
part of the building. So I think it was right for RSA to tell Mrs C she had cover under 
the policy for a drainage problem and it would investigate further. Depending on the 
nature of the damage, the policy may have covered the problem under either section.
The policy doesnt cover any damage caused by or resulting from wear and tear  
deterioration, anything that happens gradually over a period of time. This is the 
policy term RSA has relied on to decline the claim.
The pitch fibre damage found during the survey is described as blistering and 
deformation. Theres nothing to suggest anything external caused this problem, for 
example by crushing the pipe. So the damage is typical of long term gradual 
deterioration as a result of inherent flaws in the pitch fibre material. Im satisfied this 
policy term applies to the damage and RSA can fairly decline the claim as a result.
Whilst Mrs C may not have known about the problem until the blockage, I dont think 
that changes anything. The policy term isnt dependent on her knowledge of the 
problem, only on the nature of the damage. Gradual deterioration of pipes made from 
pitch fibre material is common and usually inevitable, so Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to ask RSA to go beyond its policy terms to pay to put the damage right.
I agree with Mrs C that RSA doesnt specifically exclude pitch fibre pipes. But Mrs C 
has said she wasnt aware of the material used in the drainage system, so Im not 
persuaded specific reference to pitch fibre would have made a difference to her. And 
in my experience, its very rare to find a home insurance policy which covers this kind 
of problem. So even if she had been aware, its unlikely she could have found cover 
elsewhere or otherwise avoided this situation.
The Insurance Product Information Document RSA sent Mrs C when she took out the 
policy acts as a summary of key terms. It says the policy doesnt cover normal use 
or ageing, maintenance or anything else which happens gradually. So I think it 
highlighted that this kind of problem wouldnt be covered.
I wouldnt expect RSA to try to predict which properties may have pitch fibre pipes 
and warn policyholders about it. I dont think it would be practical or helpful to do so 
for the following reasons:
oNot all properties of a similar age around the country used this material.
oMany of those that did have already failed and been replaced with pipes 
made from other materials.
oSome properties had/have a mix of pitch fibre and other materials.
oClaims involving pitch fibre may still be covered, as has happened with the 
root ingress damage here.
oEven if RSA highlighted the possibility of pitch fibre pipes to policyholders, 
most wouldnt know whether that material was used in their drains.I make no findings about how much RSA should pay for the root ingress problem  I 
understand thats the subject of a separate complaint, so I havent considered it here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman