DRN-3422337
The complaint
Mr S complains he was unable to make a purchase due to a technical issue with his bank 
card provided by Ikano Financial Services limited.
What happened
Mr S was approved for a Ikano Bank card. One of the benefits of the card what that it offered 
0% interest on purchases up to £750 from a specific retail outlet. 
To make a successful purchase, Mr S was required to generate a virtual card number in a 
linked mobile phone application. But when Mr S attempted to make a purchase from the 
retail outlet, he was unable generate the number needed to pay for his purchases with the 
card. 
Mr S said this caused him embarrassment - as it happened in front of other customers, and 
inconvenience as he had to make a second trip to the store. So, he complained to Ikano.
Ikano didnt initially respond to Mr S complaint, so he referred the matter to us. Ikano 
subsequently issued Mr S with its response to his complaint. It explained that the problem   
Mr S experienced was an internal technical issue. It apologised for the inconvenience 
caused and offered Mr S £50 compensation. Mr S didnt think this went far enough and he 
asked our investigator to consider the matter further. 
Having done so, our investigator recommended that Ikano should increase the 
compensation payment to £150. 
Ikano didnt responded to the investigators recommendation, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision to bring the matter to a swift conclusion for Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so I wont detail the events again here. 
Ikano has acknowledged there was an internal system problem when Mr S tried to pay for 
his items using his Ikano Bank card. So, I dont need to make a finding on this. 
What I do need to consider is what level of compensation is fair given all the circumstances 
of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
I appreciate it must have been embarrassing for Mr S when his payment was declined in a 
store due to no fault of his own. And Ive no reason to doubt this happened in front of other 
customers and the store staff. 
I understand that the store staff were unable to resolve the problem at the time. And that    
Mr S had to contact Ikano directly to resolve the problem. As a result, he had to make a 
second trip to the store. Mr S has said this involved an additional 90-minute round trip and 
that he had to take time off work. And I have no reason to doubt Mr S testimony.
Our investigator explored the possible opportunity Mr S had to make the payment by other 
means rather than revisit the store again. But as mentioned above, this particular card 
offered 0% interest on purchases in this specific store. And Mr S has told us he was buying 
furniture for a new home and money was tight. So, he needed to use the card and benefit 
from the 0% interest deal. I think this is a reasonable explanation as to why he specially 
needed to use this method of payment.
Considering all the above and noting that Ikanos response to Mr S was late, I think £150 is 
fair compensation given the circumstances in this case.  
Putting things right
Ikano Financial Services Limited should pay Mr S £150 (total) compensation for the issues 
he experienced when attempting to make a purchase using his Ikano Bank card. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ikano Financial Services Limited should take the action set out above to compensate Mr S 
for the embarrassment and inconvenience he was caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman