DRN-4209294
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly responded to his complaint relating to loans they provided to him in 
2007 and 2015 for the purchase of timeshare products.   
What happened
In or around September 2004, Mr and Mrs A purchased a trial membership with a company, 
Ill refer to as M, at one of their holiday resorts. Mr A says he was told he could use the 
membership for exclusive stays at any of Ms resorts in the world of his choosing.
In or around April 2007, Mr and Mrs A decided to upgrade their trial membership and 
become part of Ms points system, effectively increasing their grade of membership. They 
understood the more points they held, the more benefits theyd receive. The purchase was 
financed under a loan agreement provided by BPF in Mr As sole name. This loan was 
repaid and closed in October 2014.
In or around June 2015, Mr and Mrs A decided to purchase further points from M in order to 
upgrade their membership further. The purchase price of £7,400 was financed under a new 
10-year fixed sum loan agreement provided by BPF in Mr As sole name. This loan was 
repaid and closed in February 2018.
In May 2021, Mr A complained to BPF about the loans theyd provided in 2007 and 2015. He 
said he had serious concerns, as following enquiries to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), it seemed the intermediaries who introduced the loans to him werent permitted or 
authorised to do so under section 19 of the Financial Services and Marketing Act 2000 
(FSMA). Mr A also asked BPF to provide evidence of what checks were undertaken 
concerning his loans and their suitability and asked them to provide copies of all information 
they held about him relating to the loans.
BPF acknowledged his letter by sending him two separate letters in early June 2021 One 
related to the loan agreed in 2015 and confirmed that his complaint was being investigated. 
The other gave BPFs response to his complaint in relation to the loan provided in 2007. 
BPF didnt uphold Mr As complaint in relation to the 2007 loan. They said that under 
sections 2 and 9 of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), Mr A had six years from the date of a 
cause of action to bring a complaint. And because the loan in 2007 related to a timeshare 
product purchased at that time, it appears that was the point of loss. And as his 
claim/complaint was brought to them more than six years later, they thought any claim was 
out of time.
BPF also responded to an allegation of unfairness under section 140A (S140A) of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA) due to the purported misrepresentations and non-disclosure 
of the precise amount (if any) of commission paid by [BPF]. They said the loan had been 
repaid and closed in 2014. So, under the LA, Mr A had six years from that point during which 
to submit any claim/complaint. But his complaint was made outside of that period.
In early December 2021, using a professional representative (PR), Mr A1 referred his 
complaint to this service. The PRs referral appears to extend the scope of Mr As complaint 
1 The PR referral to this service was in the joint names of Mr and Mrs A. Whilst the products were purchased in joint names, the loans were 
in Mr As sole name only. Therefore, Mr A is the only eligible claimant/complainant under the CCA.
beyond that of his original letter to BPF. In particular, the PR said the loan(s) is/are void and 
unenforceable on the grounds of misrepresentation and unlawful authority of the 
intermediary/ies due to breach of regulatory formalities in FSMA. The PR alleged M made 
the following misrepresentations:
Mr and Mrs A would receive more benefits with their upgraded membership(s);
they could easily book and would be given priority; and
M denied the product was a timeshare.
Due to the alleged misrepresentations, Mr and Mrs A said they were unable to book the 
holidays they wanted due to a lack of availability and wouldnt have purchased the products 
had they known they related to a timeshare. The PR allege Mr and Mrs A were pressured 
into entering into the contracts and the interest rate on the loan(s) was much higher than 
those applicable generally in the particular market sector []. 
The PR believe the misrepresentations and the high interest rate created an unfair 
relationship under S140A. They also believe BPFs failure to provide details of the checks 
they conducted before agreeing to the loan(s) means they failed to comply with the 
requirements of CONC2.
The PR didnt agree with BPFs findings. They said the complaint about the relationship and 
resultant losses is ongoing  not just from six years ago. And in any event, any claim isnt 
subject to a six-year limitation as it is a claim in specialty, which is subject to a limitation 
period of 12 years after the loan agreement ended.
One of our investigators considered the circumstances of Mr As complaint. In doing so, they 
didnt agree that BPFs response was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. In particular, they 
also thought any claim for misrepresentation had been brought too late under the provisions 
of the LA. Further, as it was more than six year since the loan taken in 2007 was repaid and 
closed, any claim under S140A was also too late under the provisions of the LA. 
As regards the checks and assessments completed (or not) by BPF, our investigator didnt 
think there was any evidence suggesting the loan was unaffordable for Mr A. And also, didnt 
think that any non-disclosure of commissions paid by BPF was likely to risk making the 
relationship unfair under S140A.
In response to our investigators view, the PR stressed that Mr As complaint centres around 
what they allege were unlawful practices. They said that under the provisions within DISP3 
3.6.4R, this service is free to depart from the relevant law in determining what is fair and 
reasonable. They allege there were fraudulent misrepresentations which were only revealed 
once Mr A sought advice. And they argue that the facts relevant to Mr As cause of action 
werent known at the point he entered into the second loan in 2015. Because of the alleged 
fraudulent misrepresentations and concealment, they believe that postponement of the 
limitation period is afforded under the provisions of section 32 (S32) of the LA.
The PR also didnt agree that just because there was no evidence found suggesting the 
loan(s) were unaffordable (and Mr A denies they were affordable), it doesnt mean BPF met 
their obligations under CONC 5.2.4R. And even if there was a credit check done to assess 
credit worthiness, it doesnt necessarily address affordability.
Finally, the PR argued that M  as the credit intermediary  owed a fiduciary duty to Mr A 
and, as such, the failure to disclose any procurement fee (commission) paid by BPF was a 
breach leading to unfairness under S140A.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
2 The FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)
3 The FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints SourcebookHaving considered the relevant information about this complaint, whilst I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 14 June 2023  giving 
the PR, Mr A and BPF the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
A paid for the timeshare points with restricted use fixed sum loan agreements, so it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr A is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr A and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because 
the product points purchased were funded under the credit agreements, they are 
deemed to be a related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr As complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan with BPF - took 
place around April 2007. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as 
its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of Mr As 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While 
the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, 
we do not provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to 
make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept 
the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim 
in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr As original complaint
As Ive already highlighted above, Mr As letter to BPF in May 2021 makes no overt 
reference to any claims of misrepresentation by M under S75. It focusses upon the 
authorised status of the credit intermediaries and consequently their role in 
introducing the two loans provided by BPF. It also questions the checks undertaken 
by BPF when they agreed the loan(s). However, it appears BPFs response, in 
respect of the April 2007 loan, does address the wider issue of misrepresentation and any alleged unfairness of the relationship. So, as BPF appear to have engaged 
on these points, I have considered these aspects in reaching my decision here.
BPF told this service that the loan agreed in June 2015 hasnt been raised as part of 
this complaint. And as such, they havent issued a response and it hadnt been 
referred to this service. However, Mr As original letter to BPF specifically references 
the June 2015 loan agreement. BPF acknowledged this in a separate letter in June 
2021 but havent issued a response. And as the PRs submissions refer to both 
loans, I think the circumstances of both product purchases and the respective loans 
should be considered here.
This services jurisdiction
There are various aspects of this complaint that I think its important to provide clarity 
about before I consider matters further. 
Prior to 1 April 2014, Consumer Credit licenses were provided by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). This services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction started on 6 April 2007 
and was extended to cover all businesses that held a standard license from the OFT. 
So, before then our jurisdiction didnt extend to cover the activities of those licenced 
by the OFT. Mr As first loan was agreed on 2 April 2007  before this services 
Consumer Credit Jurisdiction. But as the loan carried on beyond the date of our new 
jurisdiction, I think this service is able to consider any complaint relating to it.
On 1 April 2014, the regulation of consumer credit businesses transferred from the 
OFT to the FCA. So, it was at this point that activities previously licensed by the OFT 
under the CCA became regulated under FSMA. As a consequence, this services 
Consumer Credit Jurisdiction ceased to exist, and the activities of regulated business 
fell under our Compulsory Jurisdiction. And as the second loan was agreed in June 
2015, it falls under that Jurisdiction. 
For simplicity, I propose to address the complaints and claims raised in respect of 
each loan separately.
The claim under S75 for the first loan in April 2007
The PR say the supplier misrepresented various aspects of the points purchase 
agreement and benefits to Mr A when he bought it, And the PR believe this brings 
cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action (that is, court action) to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr A had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement  which the PR confirm was in April 2007. Thats 
because this is when they say Mr A lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
Its unclear when details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted to BPF  if 
at all. They dont appear to have been included within Mr As complaint letter in May 
2021. But as Ive seen no evidence a claim under S75 was raised prior to this date, 
and the complaint was almost 14 years after the PR says Mr A first lost out; I believe 
a court is likely to find that any claim falls outside of the time limit permitted under the 
LA. 
The PR havent explained what M concealed or how this applies to Mr As claim that 
they misrepresented the availability and exclusivity of his membership and benefits. 
Indeed, theyve not pointed to anything in particular that they think constitutes any 
fraud, concealment, or mistake, or supported this with any evidence.  And, based on 
what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was any. In any event, I think Mr A probably had enough information about the terms of the agreement to start the time 
limits running not long after he purchased the product. So, Im not persuaded that Mr 
M is able to rely on S32 of the LA in these circumstances.
In their original referral to this service, the PR said that Mr As is a claim in speciality 
so, is subject to a limitation period of 12 years. But the claim here arose under a 
written contract, not a deed. So, I dont agree this is a claim in specialty, so the usual 
six-year limitation applies.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A for the first loan in April 2007
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, 
the trigger point here is slightly different. Any relationship between Mr A and BPF 
continues while the finance agreement remains live. So, that relationship only ends 
once the agreement ends and the borrowing under it has been repaid. Its at this 
point that Mr A has six years in which to make any claim under S140A.
It appears this loan was repaid in October 2014. So, as this is more than six years 
before any claim to BPF was made, I believe a court is likely to find this was also 
made too late under the LA. And, as Ive already explained, I dont believe theres 
evidence to suggest that limitation could be postponed.
The claim under S75 for the second loan in June 2015
While BPF appear to have separately acknowledged Mr As complaint relating to this 
loan in June 2021, Ive not been provided a copy of their findings or their final 
response to Mr A. And because the complaint/claim appears to have been raised 
within six years of when the purchase was completed, I think any claim falls in time 
under the LA. 
Its suggested that M made various representations about Mr As ability to secure 
priority bookings and a certain level of accommodation. And despite this, Mr A found 
it difficult to secure bookings when he wanted. From the information available, I cant 
be certain about what Mr A was verbally told (or not told) about the benefits of the 
products he purchased. Limited details have been provided about these 
representations and Mr As overall recollections of the sales process. Ive not seen 
any statement (evidentially supported or otherwise) from Mr A setting out his direct 
and specific memories. 
It was, however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports Mr As assertions, like marketing 
material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what he says he was 
told. Whether in terms of booking availability or accommodation standard. 
I also think its relevant that Mr As membership with M had been ongoing since 
2004. And in particular, hed been a member of Ms points-based membership since 
2007. I understand the 2015 purchase was an upgrade which entitled Mr A to more 
points. So, given his experience of M and their product over the preceding years, I 
think its reasonable to conclude he would have a reasonable knowledge and 
experience of how his membership operated. And I also think its reasonable to 
conclude that if he had any concerns about availability, he had ample opportunity to 
raise them previously. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr A had raised 
concerns with M before his complaint to BPF.
On this basis, I cant find anything that supports the assertion that M did misrepresent 
the points upgrade to Mr A.The unfair relationship claim under S140A for the second loan in June 2015
Similar to the claim under S75, Ive seen no evidence this claim has been specifically 
raised with BPF. Or that theyve provided a response. But as the loan wasnt repaid 
and closed until 2018, I do believe any claim is likely to have been made in time 
under the LA.
The PRs main arguments supporting the unfairness of the relationship relate to:
unfairness due to the misrepresentations  I havent found evidence of any 
above;
pressure to enter into the contract;
the high interest rate;
affordability check;
credit intermediary authorisation; and
Ms fiduciary responsibilities to Mr A.
The allegation of pressure
The PR suggest M exerted pressure on Mr and Mrs A to enter into the contract by 
completing the purchase. But I havent seen any evidence from the time, or 
statements to support that allegation. They had already purchased a trial 
membership of a very similar product with M and upgraded this in 2007. So, I think it 
would be fair to say that Mr A knew he was buying a timeshare product.
A document headed Declaration of Treating Customers Fairly in a Compliant Sales 
Practice appears to have been signed and initialled by Mr A. He also appears to 
have handwritten the following comment: Our thoughts & consideration were taken 
on board & the offer accepted to suit our requirements accordingly. We consider that 
we were well informed, but not pressured.
Even if I was to find that some of the information couldve been clearer during the 
sale  and I make no such finding  I think its unlikely that a court might say that any 
perception of pressure led to a sufficiently extreme imbalance in knowledge to render 
the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
The interest rate on the loan
Ive carefully considered the rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in 
all the circumstances. Mr A accepted the loan, and the loan agreement clearly sets 
out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). Section 4 of the Pre-contract credit 
information includes Mr As Right of withdrawal. It says he has 14 days to change 
his mind. 
Theres no evidence that Mr A raised any concerns or questions about the rate at the 
time, or subsequently. And as far as Im aware, he was under no obligation to accept 
the finance offer and could, if he desired, seek to fund the purchase through 
alternative means. So, Im not persuaded that the interest rate payable for the loan 
demonstrates sufficient cause that a court is likely to find the debtor-creditor unfair.
Affordability Checks
Its alleged that BPF failed to carry out a proper credit assessment. In doing so, the 
PR have referenced various requirements of the relevant sections of CONC. Its 
important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint could be considered 
under a S140A claim. If the lending were unaffordable, I think its possible a court 
might conclude that gives rise to an unfair relationship. BPF havent provided specific evidence of their credit assessments or details of Mr 
As credit score or credit file at the time. So, even if I were to find that BPF hadnt 
completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no such finding  I would 
need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they would have revealed 
that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr A in order to uphold 
his complaint here. 
However, neither Mr A nor the PR have provided any evidence to support any 
allegation that the loan was unaffordable for him. And with no information about Mr 
As actual position at the time and no evidence or suggestion that he struggled to 
maintain repayments; I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him. 
A failure to comply with CONC doesnt necessarily lead to the debtor-creditor 
relationship being unfair. There would need to be a resultant loss as a consequence. 
Given the loan has now been fully repaid and there doesnt appear to be any 
evidence that Mr A suffered any loss either, I think it unlikely a court would determine 
unfairness here.
Authorisation of the credit intermediary/ies
In his original letter of complaint, Mr A questions the authorised status of two 
intermediaries  both related to M. The evidence available shows that the second 
loan (in June 2015) was introduced to BPF by an associated company Ill refer to as 
L. Our records show that L fell under this services Compulsory Jurisdiction from 1 
April 2014. And on that basis, it appears they did hold the necessary authorisation.
As regards the earlier loan, as no supporting documentary evidence has been 
provided, Im unable to establish, with any certainty, who the credit intermediary was 
in this case. However, Mr As original complaint letter refers to another associate 
business Ill refer to as P. This particular company fell under this services 
Consumer Credit Jurisdiction from 6 April 2007. And because of that, its reasonable 
to conclude that it held the required OFT license prior to that. So, it appears they also 
held the necessary authorisation to introduce Mr A to BPF.
What were Ms fiduciary responsibilities to Mr A?
Part of Mr As S140A claim is based upon the status of M (and their associated 
businesses) as the introducer of the loan, and their resultant responsibilities towards 
him. Its argued that the payment of any commission by BPF to M was kept from Mr 
A. But I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid M commission was 
incompatible with their role in the transaction. M wasnt acting as an agent of Mr A, 
but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under the points-based product 
agreements. And, in relation to the loans, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt 
appear it was Ms role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to 
give Mr A advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr A was always 
at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr A had previously requested those details 
from BPF. As I understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to 
suppliers (like M in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that 
basis, Im not persuaded its likely a court would find there existed an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under S140A.
Conclusions
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr A may have 
against M or BPF has expired under the LA. But based upon the evidence Ive seen; 
I think any claim in respect of the first loan in April 2007 is likely to have exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. And I dont think its unreasonable to take this into 
account.
As regards the second loan in June 2015, while BPF dont appear to have provided a 
response, the evidence suggests that a complaint was raised with BPF albeit not 
specifically in relation to claims under S75 and S140A. That said, as BPF have 
responded to these claims for the first loan, I think its reasonably for me to also 
consider these for the second.
Having done so, I havent found any compelling evidence that persuades me that any 
claim is likely to be successful for the reasons stated above. And because of that, 
and in the absence of any further information or evidence, I dont intend to ask BPF 
to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF have confirmed theyve received my PD and have nothing further to add. The PR have 
also confirmed theyve received my PD but gave no indication of whether Mr A accepts my 
findings or not. Neither have they provided any further comments or information.
Given the time given for further information or responses has now passed, Ive no reason to 
vary from my original findings. And because of that, I wont be asking BPF to do anything 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman