DRN-4139803
The complaint
Ms S bought a motor insurance policy through Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited. She 
says it provided poor service and failed to explain its actions to her.
What happened
Ms S says Atlantas systems didnt record the change of car she made online in June 2021. 
She says she was later misled about the issue and not given any information in writing, as 
promised. In May 2022 Ms S made two attempts to change her address online, but in August 
2022 Atlanta told her the address it held for her was incorrect. An advisor then took her 
through the process to change it but didnt tell her in advance that there would be a charge 
for that. Ms S said she wrote to Atlanta several times asking for explanations, but her letters 
werent acknowledged.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ss complaint. She noted that Atlanta had written to 
Ms S in June 2021 asking her to confirm the change of car As it got no response, the old 
record was left unchanged. The investigator thought systems errors may have prevented  
Ms S from making the change of address initially, so she said Atlanta should pay her £50 
compensation. She thought Atlanta hadnt dealt properly with Ms Ss letters and could have 
done more to accommodate her request for replies by post. So although it had paid Ms S 
£50 compensation, the investigator said it should pay her £50 more. 
Atlanta accepted the investigators view. As Ms S didnt respond to it, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems the change of car in 2021 didnt go through because Ms S didnt save it correctly 
online. I think Atlanta acted reasonably by writing to Ms S to seek confirmation from her in 
order to complete the change. An advisor (N) told Ms S later (in error) that the change did 
take place in June 2021 and that she would confirm it in writing. She didnt, as Atlanta noted 
that the information provided by N was incorrect. I think it could have contacted Ms S to let 
her know that N had made an error. But theres nothing to show that Ns error affected Ms S 
adversely, apart from the disappointment of not getting a promised letter.
The change Ms S made in 2022 was to her correspondence address, so documents were 
later sent to that address and Ms S had no reason to think there was a problem with the 
address Atlanta held for her. But Atlanta says Ms S was prompted at the time to change the 
address where the car was kept overnight as well. It says as she didnt do that the old record 
remained until Atlanta noted it in August 2022 and contacted Ms S. But it seems the advisor 
then changed Ms Ss correspondence address in error. In its final response letter  Atlanta 
said feedback had been given to the advisor and that Ms Ss address was recorded 
correctly. As Ms S was inconvenienced, whether the issue arose initially as a result of a 
systems error or not (Atlanta says it didnt) I think £50 compensation for it is appropriate.
In terms of Atlanta not responding to Ms Ss letters, it accepted that it hadnt replied to two of 
them and offered her a further £50 compensation. Ms S accepts that in relation to some of 
the concerns she raised, advisors called or emailed her instead of replying by post, per her 
request. Policy documents were mailed to her, but an advisor said staff working from home 
couldnt contact her by post. Its for insurers and intermediaries to decide what processes to 
have in place, and we cant dictate how they should run their businesses. But there were no 
replies at all to some of Ms Ss letters. And when she called to query the issue on 20 June 
2022 she was told by an advisor that hed ensure it was addressed, but nothing happened. I 
can see why Ms S found all this frustrating and upsetting  and she was also 
inconvenienced by it. So in my opinion, a further £50 for this issue is merited. 
The issue of Ms S not being told in advance that the advisor would make a charge for 
assisting her with an online amendment has been dealt with. Although it shouldnt have 
happened, the advisor apologised and waived the charge.
As I understand it, Ms Ss aim in complaining to Atlanta and later to us was largely to get 
explanations for the poor service she received. I think its clear that human error was to 
blame for some of it  and it seems Ms S herself made errors when trying to make online 
changes. Atlanta has noted that its working practices impacted on Ms S as well, as it 
couldnt always meet her expectations. I agree that Atlantas service was poor in some 
respects (especially in not responding to her concerns in some format, if not by post). But I 
think its acknowledgement of the issues, its feedback to staff  plus £150 compensation  is 
sufficient to put matters right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries 
Limited to pay Ms S £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman