DRN-1493415
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection insurance policies, 
taken out by Mrs W in 1997 and 1999. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading 
as Birmingham Midshires, mis-sold her both policies.
Mrs W says the policies were added without her knowledge and that she didnt want or 
need them. 
Background
In September 1997 Mrs W took out a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy to go with a new mortgage. The policy protected her mortgage repayments if she 
wasnt able to work or lost her job. The cost of this policy was around £9.33 per month 
and could have paid £139 per month in the event of a successful claim. 
Mrs W kept this cover until April 1999 when she changed it to a new PPI policy, still 
using it alongside the same mortgage, on which shed added some extra borrowing for 
home improvements. This  policy cost £10.82 per month and could have paid £188 per 
month.
Mrs Ws mortgage account with BoS was closed completely in October 2004.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mrs W disagreed 
and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive looked at what Mrs W has told us about the sale, which is of course very helpful. But 
as with any complaint, Ive also kept in mind the possibility that recollections, however 
genuine, are likely to be affected by time. Also, much of the documentation from both 
sales that I would have liked to see is no longer available  although BoS has obtained 
and sent me the screenshot information it still has relating to both policies. Taking these 
considerations into account, my decision looks at whats more likely to have happened, 
based on what Ive seen and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know 
about BoSs sales process at the time for  these types of policy. 
Mrs W told us that she bought both policies in meetings. And BoS has agreed that it made 
a recommendation that she take out the cover in both instances. That means BoS needed 
to ensure the policies were suitable for her situation. BoS also needed to provide enough 
clear information so Mrs W could make an informed choice as to whether she should buy 
the policies. 
Ive seen evidence that both policies were sold by way of the screenshot evidence BoS 
has sent me. But theres no paperwork from the time of the sale. This isnt ideal, of 
course. However, I dont consider I can say that Mrs W wasnt given a choice about 
whether to take out PPI on each occasion. 
So on balance, I think the evidence and information Ive seen is enough for me to me 
think that Mrs W most likely made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these 
policies and that on each occasion there would have been some level of discussion with 
a BoS representative. In addition, its likely that Mrs W would have had to authorise the 
monthly premiums to be drawn from a bank account by way of a direct debit. So I think it 
follows that Mrs W was likely given a choice about whether to take out MPPI in each sale. 
I also think she ought to have been aware from soon after the first policy was taken out 
that she was making regular payments for PPI cover, given that these were debited from 
her bank account. 
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mrs W. From 
what Ive seen, it looks as Mrs W was eligible for the cover. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest she would have been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for her and I think the monthly premiums - given the type / number of protections each 
policy offered - were comparable with similar products marketed at around the time they 
were sold.
Mrs W told us about her employer benefits, being at least 6 months and possibly as 
much as 12 months  although that would be unusual. But having good benefits 
doesnt necessarily mean the policies wasnt going to be of any use to her. I say this 
as each of these policies would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim. And if Mrs W had to make a claim, having the policy would mean 
shed be less likely to need dig into other financial resources. 
I think the mortgage would have been a significant financial commitment over an 
extended period. Policies like this are designed to offer protection in financially difficult 
times and so they would have provided Mrs W with cover over and above any other 
protection she had elsewhere. So, given her situation, I think the concept of protecting 
herself and her home with PPI cover could be viewed as a worthwhile and sensible 
precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale she would have been given a policy document 
which explained details of the cover and how to claim. Ive seen samples of what is likely 
to have been sent to her. And even if I cant be sure that everything happened in the way 
it should have done, from what Ive seen Mrs W agreed to take out these policies and 
each of them was suitable to her situation. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs W was hoping and Im sorry to have to 
disappoint her on this occasion. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman