DRN-4066363
The complaint
Ms W complains that her bank Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund the 
money she has lost following her falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Ms W was contacted out of the blue from a business (X) offering an investment 
opportunity. At first Ms W was sceptical about the proposition but was eventually persuaded 
by X that the investment was a good opportunity.
Ms W made an initial investment with X and could see she was making a profit. Ms W was 
then persuaded by X to make further investments but these lost money and when Ms W 
refused to make any further payments X stopped responding to her.
Ms W made the following payments to the scam via her debit card:
1 30 August 2020 - €250
2 10 October 2020 - €500
3 22 October 2020 - €500
4 29 October 2020 - €500
5 29 October 2020 - €500
6 31 October 2020 - €500
7 31 October 2020 - €500
8 4 November 2020 - €500
Our Investigator considered Ms Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms W 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Ms W and Santander set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Santander 
should refund any of the money Ms W has lost because of this scam.
Recovery of the payments
Santander was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Ms W made in relation to 
this scam to X via debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Unfortunately, Ms W made her complaint to Santander sometime after the payments were 
made and outside of the allowed times.
The payments Ms W made from her Santander account were also unable to be refunded in 
accordance with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) because the CRM code does 
not apply to payments made via debit card.
With the above in mind, I am satisfied that Santander had no options available to it to 
recover Ms Ws funds
Should Santander have prevented the payments in the first place?
Ms W has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
Santander, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Ms W is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Santander should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payments from being made.
I have looked at the payments Ms W made into the scam. Although some of the payments 
were made on the same day as each other I dont think this was uncharacteristic of Ms Ws 
account activity, as she had previously made multiple payments the same day to the same 
business. The amounts of the payment are also not so significant that I would have expected 
them to trigger Santanders fraud prevention systems.
As I think it was reasonable that the payments Ms W was making into the scam didnt trigger 
Santanders fraud prevention systems, I dont think Santander missed an opportunity to step 
in and prevent the scam from taking place. So, it is not responsible for refunding any of the 
money Ms W lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman