DRN-3244267
The complaint
S is unhappy with the standard of repairs authorised by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) 
following a claim made on a building warranty. 
S is represented in this complaint by Mr M, who is a director of the management company of 
the building. 
S and Mr M have mainly dealt with the scheme administrator during the life of the complaint. 
However, the policy is underwritten by Amtrust, which means they are responsible for the 
claim and complaint. So, for ease, I will refer to Amtrust when referencing the actions of the 
parties involved. 
What happened
S manages a building which was converted in 2011. The building consists of 23 flats and two
commercial properties and is covered by a ten-year warranty provided by Amtrust. Mr M is
the owner of one of the flats.
When the flats were bought, they came with a Premier Guarantee policy. This is typical of
the cover people receive with new build or newly converted properties. It combines a
builders warranty with an insurance product.
Amongst other benefits, this policy provided cover for building defects identified within the
first two years. Here its the builders responsibility to put defects right. But where this doesnt
happen, in specified circumstances the insurance cover kicks in.
In 2013 S raised a complaint to Amtrust, on behalf of all the residents. Around half of the
flats had experienced leaks since they were built. This, and other issues were part of the
complaint. The issues were:
1. Water ingress to some flats through suspected terrace/flat roof failure with concerns 
over the flat roof and terrace detailing;
2. Insufficient surface water drainage from the terrace areas;
3. Lack of rodding/inspection access within each flat for the above ground foul drainage 
system;
4. Concern over the adequacy of the fire and acoustic protection to the undercroft 
garage ceiling and the uneven finishing of the garage floor;
5. Concerns over access restrictions to the car park entrance and incomplete works;
6. The window specification and installation not being in accordance with a Planning 
Condition or the specification marketed;
7. The buildings accessibility not taking into account that it is of mixed use, with a focus 
on the specification adopted not being suitable for children, the infirm or those with 
mobility limitation;
8. A concern raised over the construction of floors 3 and 4, manifested as noise levels 
between homes and the communal hallway on the third floor, and with the flooring 
fitted to the 4th floor.
As the complaint was raised within the first two years of the building being converted, the
concerns were passed to the builder to arrange an inspection and provide a report. They
were also asked to produce a Schedule of Works (SoW) and likely timescales for repair.
A SoW was provided. Amtrust werent satisfied that it would address some of the issues
raised and told S and the builder they would be sending a surveyor to the building to compile
a conciliation report. This visit took place in early March 2014.
The report confirmed that points 1, 2 and 3 above were defects. It said point 4 needed
further investigation by the builder, point 5 was a contractual dispute between the residents
and the builder and wasnt covered by the conciliation process. The report also said points 6,
7 and 8 didnt show any failure on the builders behalf to comply with the technical manual
and therefore, wouldnt be classed as defects. The builder was asked for their comments, a 
revised SoW, and a timeframe for repairs to start.
The work started in October 2014 and the main roof repairs were completed by
October 2015. Some work had also been done to improve the surface water drainage. But
throughout the repairs S wasnt satisfied with the work and told Amtrust that the building was
still leaking. It also told them that the drainage system was still inadequate. Amtrust agreed
to another meeting at the building and for a further conciliation report to be provided. The
meeting took place towards the end of September 2015, and the report was provided in
October 2015.
The report said that there were three things outstanding from the report compiled in March
2014. These were:
1) Water ingress at balcony terrace flat roofs and surface water drainage from flat 
roof/terrace areas;
2) Lack of rodding points to the soil stacks in the building;
3) Basement garage fire protection to ceiling penetrations. 
It was accepted that point 1 remained a defect. It was agreed that the builder would meet
with Amtrust to confirm the remedial works. It gave several things that should be considered,
including junctions to cladding and thresholds, the number and position of rainwater outlets,
the overall capacity and design of the rainwater drainage system and defects in
workmanship.
Point 2 was considered to have failed conciliation and Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
was being considered.
In relation to point 3, the builder was asked to confirm the correct fire prevention measures
had been installed. If they hadnt, then they should be installed.In early November 2015 S raised concerns that nothing had happened since the visit to the
building in September 2015. Amtrust confirmed mid-December 2015 that they would give the
builder a further week to respond regarding the issues raised with the roof terraces.
When the builder didnt respond Amtrust suggested they liaise with a different surveyor to
look at the terraces and suggest a way forward. The builder accepted this suggestion and a
visit to the building was arranged for mid-February 2016.
S was appreciative of the visit but upset as it didnt feel the surveyor had been provided with
a comprehensive breakdown of the areas of concern. The surveyor was asked to assess the
terraces and the drainage from them. But S still felt that the main roof itself was defective,
which the surveyor hadnt been asked to comment on. Whilst the surveyor didnt comment
on the main roof and its condition, the report concluded that further, invasive inspection was
needed to determine why the difficulties of the water drainage were still apparent. Amtrust
asked the surveyor to provide an estimate for this work, which was subsequently agreed,
and a further visit was arranged. This took place mid-April 2016.
While this report was being compiled, S noticed more pooling of water on the main roof and
some movement in the structure beneath. It asked for the manufacturer of the roof covering
to visit and inspect.
The report on the roof terraces was sent to Amtrust and the builder at the end of April 2016,
and again in early May. The report concluded that there were issues with the rainwater
drainage system and overall drainage on the terraces. The builder didnt respond to the
report until mid-July 2016. The builder told Amtrust that it wouldnt be carrying out any more
work on the building, including to the roof terraces. In between the report and the builder
responding, two further leaks were reported at the building.
As the builder had failed to carry out the recommendations of the conciliation report, Amtrust
let it know that it would now be taking over the claim as the conciliation process had failed.
They also wrote to S to confirm theyd now be handling the claim for the defects identified.
They were:
1) Surface water drainage from flat roofs/terrace areas;
2) Fire protection in the car park;
3) Inspection provisions to the internal above ground drainage system.
They said the main roof had been repaired by the builder so wouldnt be considered again.
Amtrust asked the previous surveyor to complete the drainage work. This work started in
November 2016. Shortly after starting the work, the contractors reported there were several
issues with the waterproof layer that needed repairing. A further report was provided.
The report concluded that there were problems with the work carried out by the builder in
2014 and 2015 when repairing the main roof. Because of this, the contractor couldnt
continue with the work to repair the drainage system. More work was needed to repair the
membrane, and they hadnt originally provided a quote for this additional work. They agreed
to finish the work theyd started, and then to leave the site until the next steps had been
agreed.
Amtrust notified the original builder of the problems that had been found and asked them if
they wanted to get their contractor to rectify the work. The builder didnt respondappropriately, so Amtrust told them they would continue with the work with the surveyor
theyd appointed.
It wasnt until March 2017 that the estimate was provided, and work begun again. At this
stage more defects with the main roof were identified. The surveyor provided a further
estimate for the works, which totalled £189,217.20. Amtrust gave this information to the
original builder and asked for a guarantee of the original repair work completed in 2014 and
2015. The builder had provided a guarantee in 2015, but that was only for the product used.
It didnt guarantee the workmanship or application of the product. A guarantee for the repair
work wasnt provided.
Amtrust approved the schedule of works, and work to the roof terrace areas and drainage
system took place over the next few months. It was completed by March 2018, at which
point Amtrust asked for another report to be done.
Following this report, a few issues were still not finished. The surveyors that had completed
the work the previous year were no longer in business, so another surveyor was asked to
assess the report and the work needed and provide an estimate. Once the estimate had
been provided, Amtrust told S that it would cash settle the rest of the claim. It offered
£11,685.60 for the work it considered still needed to be covered by the claim.
S didnt accept this and commissioned its own report. It was completed in September 2018.
This report contradicted the final report in March 2018 considerably. Whilst it accepted the
work that had been done had made some improvement, it maintained that the initial main
roof had not been constructed properly and was still letting in water to the flats below. It also
said that the falls still werent at the standard expected and the rainwater drainage system
was insufficient in places.
Amtrust were given a copy of this report but dismissed it. They stood by their cash
settlement offer.
As S didnt agree it brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the
complaint. She said that the cash settlement offer was fair, and all the other work had been
completed.
S didnt agree so it was passed to me for a decision. Before I felt able to make any decision
on this, I asked both sides to agree to a final, independent surveyors report to be completed.
The surveyor was chosen by S and was asked to consider four things. They were:
1) The design and construction of the roof structure, including the waterproof protective 
membrane fitted;
2) Any subsequent repairs to the roof structure, and the integrity of those repairs;
3) The surface water drainage from the main roof and all the flat roofs and terrace 
areas;
4) The rainwater drainage system in place. 
The surveyor was also asked to give his opinion on the following:
1) Whether or not there has been a breach of the technical requirements in line with the 
policy in the design and construction of the roof structure  and if there has;The extent of the damage caused by it;
And in his opinion whether or not any repairs to address it (and any resulting 
damage caused by it) are lasting and effective. 
The report has been shared with both parties. Both parties have accepted the findings. S
has also explained the impact this situation has had on the leaseholders over the years. It
has said the building has been continually leaking, and many of the flats have had their
terraces lifted and replaced several times. Many have also suffered internal damage as a
result of the leaking since occupation.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 November 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have sent in a lot of correspondence regarding this complaint. And the
circumstances of the claim are well known to both parties. Id like to reassure them both that
Ive read everything provided, but I wont be commenting on everything thats been
mentioned. Ill be concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
The issues I asked the independent surveyor to consider are those that are considered
defects in accordance with the Premier Guarantee policy. I know S feels there are other
issues that fail to comply with building regulations and the Premier Guarantee Technical
Manual, but they arent covered by the insurance policy. They are design issues, which I
know S has taken up with their local authority regarding concerns about the building being
signed off  but they dont come under the defects part of the insurance policy.
I think its worthwhile here to also explain what our service can and cannot consider in this
case. Our remit is very narrow, and I think its important for S to understand that. Im only
permitted to consider a regulated activity. As this claim was made within the first two years of
the building being completed, the conciliation process was followed. And the Premier
Guarantee policy only becomes a regulated activity, in this case an insurance policy, if the
conciliation process isnt completed by the original builder and Amtrust need to take over the
claim. Its at this stage that Section 3.2 Defects Insurance of the Premier Guarantee policy
comes into force  meaning the insurance policy is now active. But the conciliation process
itself isnt a regulated activity, and therefore it isnt something that I can consider. Included in
this is how the conciliation process was carried out, what faults were identified and what
repairs, if any, were deemed necessary. I know that S believes the issues with the windows
and access to the garage along with other concerns, should be considered as part of my
review. But they werent identified as defects by the conciliation report and therefore dont
come under my remit for consideration. The defects were identified as the main roof and its
covering, the terrace roof areas and the rainwater drainage from all surface areas, and these
are the areas I asked the independent surveyor to report on.
As both sides have accepted the report from the independent surveyor dated 27 May 2021,
and the report confirms that the areas under consideration are defective, I dont need to
make a decision on those aspects. What I need to decide is what needs to happen now to 
put things right for the leaseholders, and what Amtrust need to do to progress this claim the
right way.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook set outs a number of Principles for
Businesses (Principles) that Amtrust must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly.Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers and
distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of
their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being
provided.
As Ive mentioned before in this decision, the relevant section of the Premier Guarantee
policy here is 3.2 Defects Insurance. This says that:
The Underwriter shall have no liability unless:
a)
the Developer has refused to respond to the claim within a reasonable time period;
and/or
the Developer has withheld consent to resolve the dispute by using the Conciliation 
Service; and/or
the Developer has accepted the decision of a building surveyor after using the 
Conciliation Service but has failed to carry out the works or repairs recommended 
in the surveyors report within the time stipulated.
So, in this case Amtrust will get involved if any of the above reasons come into force. And I
think its reasonable to suggest they could, and should, have got involved with the claim from
an earlier date. S brought the problems with the building to their attention in 2013, and it
wasnt until later in 2016 that Amtrust decided they needed to take over, as the builder hadnt
complied with the conciliation report or any subsequent reports that had been
commissioned. Im not persuaded that this is a reasonable time period and am satisfied
Amtrust should have stepped in much sooner. S had raised concerns when the initial repairs
started in October 2014 that the building was still leaking, and there were numerous delays
caused by the builder not responding when asked for an update or to undertake more
remedial work. I think Amtrust had opportunities to take over the claim before they eventually
decided to do so. Amtrusts regulatory responsibilities, set out above, means they must act in
good faith when taking over the claim. And they must also have regard to S interests as well
as their own. I dont think they have done this throughout this claim.
Amtrust have asked for a further report to be commissioned by the independent surveyor, as
theyd like to understand the potential costs involved to make the building watertight and the
defective areas compliant. And theyve asked our service to arrange that. But that isnt
something Im able to do. My role is to decide if Amtrust dealt with the initial complaint and
claim correctly and, if they havent, what needs to happen to put that right. It isnt for me to
handle the claim moving forward or to liaise with all respective parties about the best way for
that to happen.Having said that, I have to point out that Amtrusts responsibility in relation to dealing with S
claim doesnt end with this decision, as the report has highlighted significant defects with the
building which Amtrust need to take action over, and the necessary repairs remain
outstanding. My findings have been made only in relation to Amtrusts handling of the claim
up until the date of this decision. However, the life of this claim will continue beyond the date
of this decision. Amtrust have responsibilities to follow through with this claim, as set out in
the Principles, regulations and guidance that I mentioned earlier. Amtrusts handling of the
claim hereafter may give S and/or the leaseholders reason for further complaints to our
service.
Amtrust have said they need a Scope of Works (SoW) put together to ascertain the costs of
the remedial work required. I intend to tell Amtrust to commission that SoW so its clear what
work is required as a result of the defects highlighted in the independent surveyors report.
What I would expect, and urge, Amtrust to do is to move forward on this quickly, in line with
their responsibilities, to ensure the claim can be progressed and a suitable resolution can be
found for all sides. With this in mind, Amtrust should agree to adhere to the following
timescales, unless prevented from doing so by unforeseen circumstances:
Amtrust will contact S within four weeks of the acceptance of this decision to arrange 
a date for the SoW inspection, in preparation for the SoW report;
The date for the SoW inspection to begin should be arranged within two months after 
the initial contact, with the report to follow promptly thereafter, in line with Amtrusts 
responsibilities. 
Several flats have suffered internal damage, as have the communal areas such as stairwells
and corridors. These flats and communal areas must be included in the SoW to ensure they
are put back into the position they were in prior to any leaks occurring.
I also have to consider the distress the delays have caused. This claim has been going on
for many years now, and the latest independent report commissioned correlates to the
defects highlighted in reports prepared by S choice of surveyor in 2013 and 2018. Amtrust
have had every opportunity from those reports to do what they needed to do to ensure the
building was watertight and draining correctly. But they chose not to accept the findings from
the reports in 2013 and 2018. Those delays have allowed the building to continue to suffer
damage, internally and externally, and have left all concerned with a building not fit for
purpose at certain times of the year and during inclement weather conditions. Some flat
owners have also experienced problems when trying to sell their flat or arrange for new
tenants, and the building insurers have been reluctant to confirm cover without any
exclusions while the uncertainties around the building have remained. They should be
compensated for that and I intend to ask Amtrust to pay S £10,000 compensation, which S
can use to compensate the leaseholders theyre representing.
Any delay from here is likely to cause further concern for S and/or the leaseholders and
could result in further complaints to our service. (Any further complaints would have to be
based on Amtrusts actions in relation to the ongoing claim after the date of this decision, as
opposed to during the period which I have considered). I sincerely hope that this will not 
occur, and Amtrust will do what theyre required to do. Its certainly my intention with this
decision to give them the opportunity to show the claim can be handled proficiently, and in
accordance with their responsibilities, from this point onwards. If there are further failings,
Amtrust could be liable for further costs. But that would be a matter for a different
ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances.
But I would like to emphasise again, the commitments and awards Im intending to ask
Amtrust to undertake are only my findings on how theyve handled the claim up until the dateof this decision.
Amtrust responded to the provisional decision and accepted the recommendations in full. 
S also responded. Whilst they accepted parts of the provisional decision and were pleased 
to see Amtrust had acknowledged the failings in the handling of the claim up to this point, 
they felt further compensation was warranted. S said the leaseholders had also incurred 
costs throughout the claims history. These costs included internal repair costs and the costs 
the leaseholders incurred as a result of arranging their own surveys and reports, as well as 
legal costs they received for advice and guidance between 2016 and 2018. 
S provided impact statements from several of the leaseholders, explaining in more detail 
how theyd been affected by the events at the building over the previous few years. They 
also provided the invoices still available for the associated costs incurred. 
It was clear from the impact statements the degree to which some leaseholders had suffered 
in terms of both physical health and mental wellbeing over many years while the building 
continued to leak, and no resolution looked in sight. 
Having reviewed the impact statements and the invoices for the costs incurred, I felt it was 
reasonable for the compensation amount to be increased, and to include some of the costs 
incurred too. I explained this to Amtrust and provided them with the invoices and impact 
statements to consider. 
Further responses were received from both parties around the distress and inconvenience 
award and the associated costs. Taking the various elements into consideration, Amtrust 
have come forward with an offer of £30,000 to compensate collectively for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by the residents and including for associated costs. 
On behalf of the residents, this is an amount S is agreeable to in acknowledgement of the 
impact and to bring the complaint to a close.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to all parties, and my 
provisional decision explains in great detail what has happened up to this point. I dont think 
theres any need to explain it again here. 
While Amtrust accepted the recommendations in the provisional decision, I want to reiterate 
that means Amtrust are to commission the SoW so its clear what work is required as a 
result of the defects highlighted in the independent surveyors report. I would expect, and 
urge, Amtrust to move forward on this quickly, in line with their responsibilities. I can see that 
Amtrust are doing this.
Im pleased that Amtrust have also recognised the impact their handling of this claim has 
had on the leaseholders at the building. Its to their credit that they have reassessed the 
recommendations in my provisional decision. And returned with a significantly more 
substantial collective award of £30,000, which I think this is a fair amount to recognise the 
distress and invoiced additional costs the leaseholders have been caused.
Its clearly been a difficult time for S and the leaseholders too. I hope this award goes some 
way to helping them to move forward. Whilst there is still some way to go with the claim and the repairs, I hope Amtrust and S can work closely together to ensure a much smoother 
journey over the coming months to achieve a watertight building. 
Lastly, I must point out that this decision and the compensation award and commitments of 
Amtrust are only my findings on how theyve handled the claim up until the date of this 
decision. I repeat that any delay from here is likely to cause further concern for S and/or the 
leaseholders and could result in further complaints to our service. (Any further complaints 
would have to be based on Amtrusts actions in relation to the ongoing claim after the date of 
this decision, as opposed to during the period which I have considered). I sincerely hope that 
this will not occur, and Amtrust will do what theyre required to do. Its certainly my intention 
with this decision to give them the opportunity to show the claim can be handled proficiently, 
and in accordance with their responsibilities, from this point onwards. If there are further 
failings, Amtrust could be liable for further costs.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited must:
As a result of the latest independent report in May 2021, Amtrust are to commission 
a Scope of Works that makes it clear what work is required, including internal 
damage to flats and all the communal areas.
Pay S £30,000 compensation for the distress caused, including associated costs 
incurred, by the handling of the claim and the delays seen up until the date of this 
decision, which sum S will use to compensate the leaseholders theyre representing. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman