DRN-1571241
The complaint
Ms L and Ms P are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. refused to pay their holiday cancellation claim.
What happened
Ms L and Ms P cancelled their family holiday on the day they were due to travel.
They made a cancellation claim on the annual travel insurance policy they held with Mapfre, 
but the claim was declined. Mapfre said that when the policy was taken out, Ms P was 
already suffering with the symptoms that subsequently caused the holiday to be cancelled. 
And the policy doesnt cover cancellation claims in such circumstances. Mapfre said the 
policy wasnt fit for purpose so offered a pro-rata refund as well as £80 to recognise the 
significant delays in its claims-handling process and the resulting inconvenience Ms L and 
Ms P had been caused.
Ms L and Ms P didnt agree with what Mapfre said and asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms P had a pre-existing medical condition and recommended 
Mapfre should reconsider the claim. But Mapfre disagreed, so the complaint has come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think it was fair of 
Mapfre to decline Ms L and Ms Ps claim  Ill explain why.
Mapfre says it declined this claim because insurance is only meant to cover events that are 
unexpected or unforeseen. It says Ms P was experiencing symptoms before the policy was 
taken out which mightve escalated, so it wasnt an unforeseeable possibility that the holiday 
would be cancelled. It also pointed to the policy terms and conditions which say it will not 
cover:
Cancelling or cutting short your trip because of a medical condition or any illness related to 
a medical condition you knew about at the time of taking out this insurance and/or, prior to 
the booking of any individual trip unless this has been declaredand we have accepted 
cover for this in writing (see Declaration of medical conditions on pages 3 and 4). 
Mapfre also pointed to the declaration of medical conditions, in particular where it says:
If, at the time of purchasing this policy or when booking a trip, the following criteria apply to 
you or anyone insured under this policy, you will not be covered for any claim arising directly 
or indirectly from that medical condition:
Medical exclusions criteriaA Anyone who is receiving or waiting for medical tests or treatment for any medical condition 
or set of symptoms that have not been diagnosed
B Anyone who is travelling against the advice of a medical practitioner or travelling to get 
medical treatment abroad
C Anyone named on the policy who is not registered with a medical practitioner in the United 
Kingdom
Despite what Mapfre has said, I think the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) does apply in this case. CIDRA places certain obligations 
on both the insurer and the person buying the policy. This includes that the insurer has a 
duty to ask clear and specific questions. And the person buying the policy has a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in response to these questions.
With this in mind, Mapfres records indicate the policy was bought online, but I dont know if 
that was direct with Mapfre or, perhaps, through a price comparison website. And I havent 
been given anything which shows exactly what questions were asked and/or what answers 
Ms L and Ms P gave. But I think, in pointing to the medical exclusions section of the terms 
and conditions Mapfre seems to be suggesting that questions phrased in the same way 
wouldve been put to Ms L and Ms P when they applied for the policy. 
The relevant bit of the declaration in this case seems to be Anyone who is receiving or 
waiting for medical tests or treatment for any medical condition or set of symptoms that have 
not been diagnosed.
Mapfre says that when the policy was taken out Ms P had a set of undiagnosed symptoms 
for which she planned to seek medical advice. But I dont agree.
I say this because Ms P says she thought the abdominal pains she was experiencing before 
the policy was taken out were the usual type that related to her menstrual cycle. But, two 
days after the policy was taken out, the pains increased in severity to the point where she no 
longer thought they were normal and so chose to seek medical advice. I also think the 
following information, provided by the doctor who completed the medical certificate, supports 
what Ms P says:
The abdominal pains that gave rise to the claim began two days after the policy was 
taken out and it was on this same date that Ms P first consulted a doctor.
Ms P had not suffered from the same or a related condition in the past five years.
There was no ongoing medical condition or medical complication directly attributable 
to the condition being investigated by a medical professional either on the date the 
trip was booked or the date the policy was purchased.
Ms P told the doctor she had been experiencing intermittent pain for two weeks but 
the pain she had been experiencing before the policy was taken out was put down to 
period pain and was not concerning.
Given the nature of the pain Ms P was experiencing, I dont think it was unreasonable of her 
to think it related to her menstrual cycle and wasnt indicative of an underlying condition 
which might prevent her from going on her family holiday. In short, she didnt think she was 
unwell or suffering from an illness which needed medical attention until the pain got 
progressively worse, which just happened to be two days after the policy was taken out. 
At the point when the policy was taken out, Ms P was not receiving or waiting for medical 
tests or treatment. Nor did she believe  or reasonably should have believed  she had a set 
of symptoms that required diagnosis. So, assuming she was asked a question phrased 
similar to that quoted above, I dont believe it was wrong for her to answer in the negative.I can understand why any insurer would want to know if a potential customer was feeling in 
any way unwell or in pain before offering cover. Because, as Mapfre has point out, insurance 
is intended to cover unexpected events. But thats why its so important for all insurers to ask 
clear and specific questions when it has the opportunity to do so, before the policy is offered 
and accepted. 
In this case, I dont think Mapfre asked Ms P the questions it needed to in order to find out 
about the pain shed been experiencing before the policy was taken out, so that it could fairly 
exclude cover for any related conditions.
Accordingly, I dont think it was fair for Mapfre to decline the claim for the reasons it has 
given. And doing so has caused Ms L and Ms P to suffer some trouble and upset, for which 
they should be compensated.
Putting things right
To put things right Mapfre should:
reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy. 
add 8%pa simple interest to any settlement amount from the date the claim was 
submitted up until the date of settlement. If Mapfre considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms L and 
Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if 
appropriate.
pay £80 compensation in recognition of the overall trouble and upset caused during 
the handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman