DRN-3796915
The complaint
Mr S complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), declining a claim under his home insurance 
policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mr Ss property suffered damage, to tiles on 
the main roof and a flat roof at the rear of the property, as well as to a chimney. There was 
also damage to a shed from the felt that came off the flat roof. He contacted QIC to tell them 
about the damage and lodge a claim.
QIC said theyd arrange for a surveyor (L) to visit the property and assess the damage. 
Because of the number of claims from Storm Eunice, L couldnt visit until a month after the 
incident. Because the damage left the interior of the property exposed, Mr S arranged for 
temporary repairs to mitigate further damage (although more rain fell and affected the 
interior of the property, including the power supply).
L inspected the damage, but in his report he declined all aspects of the claim. On the flat 
roof, from pictures taken before the temporary repair, L concluded it was in poor overall 
condition prior to the incidence, having previously been painted over and with cracks/splitting 
around the perimeter and signs of solar degradation. On the damage to the chimney, L said 
a section of mortar had cracked and come away where it had previously been re-done above 
the lead flashing. L concluded the damage wasnt the result of a one-off event of storm 
damage, rather the storm had merely highlighted pre-existing issues as opposed to being 
the proximate cause of the damage. As such, the damage wasnt covered under the policy. 
On the internal damage, L noted rainwater had come in, affecting bedrooms at the rear of 
the property and the kitchen. But because Mr Ss policy didnt include cover for accidental 
damage (and the claim for external damage to the flat roof and chimney had been declined) 
then the claim for the internal damage was also declined.
Mr S challenged Ls report and the decline of his claim. He thought Ls report contained 
several discrepancies about the details of his property. Nor did it consider all aspects of the 
damage hed told QIC about (the main roof tiles and shed). He also thought Ls attitude 
during the survey was abrupt and dismissed the points of mitigation hed raised. Mr S also 
said hed had contractors inspect and work on both the flat roof and the chimney, who hadnt 
raised concerns about the condition of either. Based on this, Mr S complained to QIC.
QIC didnt uphold the complaint, confirming their decision to decline the claim in their final 
response. While they accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, based 
on Ls conclusions about the condition of the flat roof, the chimney mortar and the flashing 
before the incident, they said the storm highlighted pre-existing issues of degradation and 
deterioration over time. It wasnt the cause of the damage. On the internal damage, as the 
claim for external damage had been declined, the policy wouldnt cover the internal damage 
as storm damage. And as the policy didnt include accidental damage cover, the internal 
damage couldnt be considered under that section.
Mr S then complained to this service. He didnt think QIC had acted fairly in declining all 
three elements of his claim. Theyd omitted tile damage, despite it being highlighted to them 
and L. He thought damage to the chimney was due to the storm as the high winds had 
uplifted the flashing, damaging the mortar. Damage to the flat roof was also caused by the 
storm. Decline of the claim had caused significant financial loss and stress, he thought QICs 
refusal to expedite a survey of the damage also led to further [avoidable] internal damage. 
His health had been affected by QIC refusing to provide alternative accommodation when 
the property was uninhabitable. He wanted QIC to accept all elements of his claim and pay 
for the damage. He also wanted compensation for the stress hed suffered and the impact on 
his health.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He thought storm conditions were present at 
the time of the incident and the damage was consistent with that expected in a storm. He 
considered evidence from contractors whod previously worked on the flat roof about its 
condition but concluded there were indications of deterioration and QIC acted reasonably in 
declining this aspect of the claim. On the chimney damage, he thought signs of cracking 
indicated a pre-existing issue and so QIC had fairly declined this aspect. On the roof tile 
damage, he noted this hadnt been considered by L in their report. But he noted QIC had, as 
a goodwill gesture, agreed to reimburse Mr S for the cost of repair (£180).
On the damage to the interior of the property, the investigator didnt think it was fair for QIC 
to decline the claim because theyd declined the claim for damage to the exterior of the 
property. He thought the storm was the direct cause of the interior damage (there were no 
indications the damage existed before the storm). On alternative accommodation, the 
investigator thought this would only be considered had QIC accepted the claim  as theyd 
declined the claim, he wouldnt have expected it to be offered. On the attitude of L during the 
inspection, while he didnt doubt what Mr S had said, as he wasnt present it wasnt possible 
to determine exactly what had happened.
Based on his findings, the investigator thought QIC should cover the cost of repairs to the 
damage of the interior of the property. They should also pay the £180 cost of repair of the 
roof tiles and £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Mr S responded to say he was disappointed with the investigators view about QIC declining 
the claim for exterior damage. He provided further evidence, including photographs, that he 
believed showed how the damage to the chimney and the flat roof may have occurred.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said that as the storm damage wasnt the direct cause of the damage to the 
exterior of the property, the consequent internal damage couldnt be considered under the 
policy (as storm damage). As the proximate cause of the external damage was gradual 
deterioration, then the internal damage was also a direct result of that gradual deterioration. 
While they would have considered the internal damage under accidental damage, as Mr S 
didnt have accidental damage cover, they couldnt do this.
In my findings, I concluded it was reasonable for QIC to decline the element of Mr Ss claim 
for damage to the flat roof. But I concluded they hadnt acted fairly in declining the element 
of the claim for damage to the chimney. I also concluded QIC hadnt acted fairly in declining 
the claim for interior damage. 
Having reached these conclusions, I considered what QIC needed to do to put things right. I 
thought it was reasonable for them to pay for the repair to the main roof (£180) as a goodwill gesture, so they should pay Mr S the £180 if they hadnt already done so. On the external 
damage to the chimney, I thought they should assess that in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Similarly, I thought they should assess the interior damage in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate).
On the issue of compensation, I considered what Mr S described about the stress the 
incident caused him, and what he said about how he felt he was treated by QIC (and his 
dealings with L). On the latter, I didnt reach any clear conclusion about what may have 
happened. But thinking about the incident and what happened overall, I thought it would 
have been stressful for Mr S. Taking account of all the circumstances, I thought £200 for 
distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator in some respects, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id first want to say I appreciate what Mr S has told us about his health and how it has 
affected him. I also recognise the incident and the damage caused to his property will have 
been stressful to him. Ive borne this in mind when deciding (as is my role) whether QIC has 
acted fairly towards Mr S.
There are several main elements to Mr Ss complaint for me to consider. First, whether QIC 
acted fairly in declining Mr Ss claim for the damage to the exterior of his property. That is, to 
the chimney, to the flat roof and to the tiles of the main roof. Second, whether QIC acted 
fairly in declining Mr Ss claim for the damage to the interior of his property that followed from 
the damage to the exterior (the latter leading to rainwater coming in, despite the temporary 
repairs). Third, theres the stress Mr S says the incident (and QICs handling and decline of 
his claim) has caused him. Within this, theres also Mr Ss unhappiness at how L carried out 
the inspection of the damage. 
On the first issue, Ive noted L didnt consider the damage to the main roof tiles in his report 
(despite Mr S saying he drew it to his attention). However, Ive also noted QIC have agreed 
to pay for the cost of repairing the damage to the tiles as a goodwill gesture. As such, they 
havent considered it as a claim under the policy, meaning they havent applied any policy 
excess that would otherwise have been due. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Coming back to the other elements of damage (the flat roof and chimney), Mr S says the 
storm caused the damage and both were in good condition prior to the incident. Hes also 
provided evidence from contractors who carried out work in the period before the incident, 
including their view (on the flat roof) it was in good condition. QIC say (based on Ls report) 
the flat roof was in poor overall condition prior to the incidence, having previously been 
painted over and with cracks/splitting around the perimeter and signs of solar degradation. 
On the damage to the chimney, L say a section of mortar had cracked and come away 
where it had previously been re-done above the lead flashing. Based on this QIC say the 
damage wasnt the result of a one-off event of storm damage, rather the storm had merely 
highlighted pre-existing issues as opposed to being the proximate cause of the damage. In considering the two views, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from pre-existing 
issues, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Mr Ss property at the time of the incident. noting a highest wind speed of 71 mph. This 
accords with the weather reports from the weather firm this service uses, which indicate a 
dry storm at the time of the incident (and the same wind speed of 71 mph). So, Ive 
concluded there were storm conditions present around the date of the incident.
 
On the second question, the description of the damage and photographs indicate damage to 
the flat roof (the felt being blown off); to the chimney (raised flashing and cracked mortar); 
and to the main roof (dislodged tiles). All three types of damage are ones wed expect in 
storm conditions, particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with 
that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Mr S and QIC disagree. Ive considered 
both views carefully, together with the report from QICs surveyor and the views of Mr S and 
the evidence hes provided from his contractors. Ive also considered the photographs 
provided by Mr S and QIC (before and after the incident) as well as the further information 
and representations made by Mr S and QIC when responding to our investigators view. 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded QIC have acted fairly in declining Mr Ss 
claim for exterior damage. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: We 
dont coverd. anything that happens gradually.
Considering the issue of the flat roof first, QIC refer to Ls report, which states the flat roof:
is in a poor overall condition, we can see that it has previously been painted over 
and the felt around the perimeter looks cracked/split and shows sign of solar 
degradation.QIC also say the felt could only have been lifted from the roof if the wind had got underneath 
it, which would have been the result of cracks or gaps in the felt (which would have been the 
result of deterioration).
However, Mr Ss contractor has provided the following opinion (referring to some work they 
carried out at the property, rendering the external walls):
Whilst working up the scaffold, the owner of the property, Mr S, requested that I 
could check his main roof and his flat roof. The roof looked in good order with no 
visible defects, I took a photo for Mr S, which believe he has a copyI took of the 
roof on 29th April 2021.
In summary, I can confirm that on 29th April 2021, when I inspected the roof at the 
above address, there were no visible defects or issues.
Mr S also says the flat roof was affected by the dislodging of tiles from the main roof, 
allowing the wind to blow through the roof and under the boards beneath the felt roof, 
destabilising and lifting the felt surface entirely. 
Ive considered all these points carefully, but on balance Im more persuaded by QICs (Ls) 
view. From the photographs both before and after the incident there are signs of the felt 
suffering deterioration. Around the perimeter and across the flat surface, which appears 
uneven and with some gaps at the edges. While Ive noted the view of Mr Ss contractor 
when he viewed the roof in April 2021, though he states there are no visible signs of 
deterioration, Im not persuaded given what Ive said about the photographs. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the roof being destabilised and lifted due to 
wind entering through the gap left by the dislodged tiles on the main roof. However, Im not 
persuaded this explains the felt roof being lifted. The boards under the felt roof appear to be 
intact, which isnt consistent with what Mr S has said. Nor can I see how wind would have 
moved through the gap in the main tiles as Mr S suggests and lift the boards (and detach the 
felt). So, Im persuaded by QICs view that the wind could only have lifted the felt by getting 
in through gaps and cracks (which Ive said above I think there is evidence of).
Ive also not seen any evidence to indicate when the felt roof was last worked or (or 
replaced). Mr S says he moved into the property in 2015, suggesting no work on the roof 
since that time. Ive also considered that its generally accepted that felt-covered flat roofs 
have a more limited lifespan than slate-covered, pitched roofs (depending on the precise 
method of construction). In the absence of any indication of major work (or replacement) on 
the roof, together with what Ive said about the appearance of the roofs condition before the 
incident and the likely cause of the wind lifting the felt roof, Ive concluded QIC have shown it 
was reasonable to apply the exclusion to decline this element of the claim.
Turning to the issue of the damage to the chimney, Ls report stated:
The chimney has a section of mortar coming away where it has been re-done in a 
small fillet above the lead but not adequately sized or adhered to the chimney and 
has cracked and fallen away.
QIC accept the mortar at the base of the chimney was re-done, but say the photographs 
indicate it had started to crumble and crack, indicating deterioration. QIC say the 
deterioration of the mortar (applied on top of the lead flashing) has allowed the flashing to 
de-bond from the roof, which has then been highlighted by the wind. Mr S says the flashing 
flipped up along the roof line due to the excessive wind speed and consequently dislodged 
and broke the mortar in the chimney (allowing water to enter the roof and loft). Ive considered both views carefully, together with the photographs of the chimney. On 
balance, Im persuaded by Mr Ss view. I say this because the photograph of the chimney 
and roof ridge tile line leading to the chimney taken after the storm shows the lead flashing 
along the tile line has been blown upwards (though the ridge tiles themselves appear to have 
remained in place). This lead flashing then runs to the piece of flashing adjacent to the 
chimney, which has similarly flipped upwards. I think that has dislodged the mortar sitting on 
top of it. While there is some cracking of the mortar around the rest of the base of the 
chimney, its remained in place and hasnt broken away in any other place. This suggests 
any cracking is only superficial. So, I dont think mortar deterioration has caused the damage 
to the chimney.
Based on this, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in applying the exclusion to decline 
this element of the claim.
Having concluded QIC acted fairly in declining the claim for the exterior damage to the flat 
roof  but unfairly in declining the damage to the chimney - Ive considered their decline of 
the internal damage. Mr S maintains QIC should accept all elements of this claim (including 
the interior damage). He believes the storm damage not only affected the exterior parts of 
his property, but the latter meant rainwater was able to enter the interior of the property and 
cause damage (despite the temporary repairs). QIC say that as the storm damage wasnt 
the direct cause of the damage to the exterior of the property, the consequent internal 
damage couldnt be considered under the policy (as storm damage). As the proximate cause 
of the external damage was gradual deterioration, then the internal damage was also a 
direct result of that gradual deterioration. While they would have considered the internal 
damage under accidental damage, as Mr S didnt have accidental damage cover, they 
couldnt do this.
Ive considered both views carefully, but I dont agree with QIC, concluding they havent 
acted fairly. Ive come to this view for several reasons. First, while I agree theyve acted 
reasonably in declining the claim for the exterior damage to the flat roof (but not the 
chimney) on the grounds of deterioration, I dont accept this means the interior damage is 
also, automatically covered by the same reasons for decline. I say that because theres no 
indication of any interior damage prior to the storm (the interior photographs show the 
property to be in a good condition and Mr S has told us hes been renovating the property 
since he moved into it). So, the interior damage is a direct consequence of the storm and the 
subsequent ingress of rainwater. 
And as Ive concluded the exterior damage to the chimney was unfairly declined, then any 
damage from rainwater ingress through that part of the property should be covered.
Based on this, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining the claim for internal 
damage. Having reached this conclusion, QICs decline to consider the internal damage 
under accidental damage (as that cover wasnt included in Mr Ss policy) isnt something I 
need to consider further.
Having reached the conclusion QIC have acted fairly to decline the claim for exterior 
damage  but theyve acted unfairly to decline the claim for interior damage - Ive thought 
about what I think QIC need to do to put things right. 
Having agreed to pay for the repair to the main roof (£180) as a goodwill gesture, which I 
think reasonable, QIC should pay Mr S the £180 if they havent already done so. On the 
external damage to the chimney, I think they should now assess that in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, as 
appropriate). Similarly, I think they should assess the interior damage in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, as 
appropriate).Having reached these conclusions, Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Mr S 
has described the stress the incident has caused him, and Ive thought about this carefully. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about how he feels he was treated by QIC (and 
specifically his dealings with L). On the latter, Ive noted what Mr S has said, but I cant reach 
any clear conclusion about what may have happened. But thinking about the incident and 
whats happened overall, I think it will have been stressful for Mr S. Taking account of this 
and all the circumstances, I think £200 for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay for the repair to the main roof (£180) if they havent already done so.
Assess the claim for external damage to the chimney in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy (including, any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Assess the claim for interior damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy (including, any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Pay £200 for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr S responded to say he was pleased at the provisional decision conclusions about 
damage to the chimney and the internal damage. He wanted to bring the case to a 
conclusion as quickly as possible. He made several points. First, that the provisional 
decision didnt indicate any amount for the cost of repairs, and QIC hadnt considered 
replacement of kitchen units that had suffered water damage (the cost of replacement he 
estimated to be £8,000). Nor had QIC made any assessment of damage to contents in the 
property (and the provisional decision didnt mention contents, which he wanted to be 
included in any final decision). 
QIC responded with several points. First, they said they £180 theyd offered towards roof 
repairs was a goodwill gesture  it wasnt offered as cover under the policy. As such, no 
excess would be applied. They wouldnt consider any further damage for this area (roof 
repairs) under the policy.
Second, having previously reviewed the damage to the chimney, they were satisfied the 
damage wasnt a direct result of a storm and the missing mortar in the chimney was due to 
gradual deterioration of the mortar. Third, as they hadnt covered any external damage under 
the storm section of the policy, they wouldnt provide cover for internal damage under the 
storm section either. Nor would they consider any internal damage under the accidental 
damage section of the policy, as Mr S hadnt taken out this element of cover. But they did 
accept the proposed £200 compensation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr S.
Ive considered carefully the points made by both Mr S and QIC.Taking the points raised by Mr S first, the provisional decision didnt indicate any amount for 
the cost of repairs, as it isnt the role of this service to assess and settle claims. Its the 
responsibility of the insurer (QIC in this case). Which is why the provisional decision referred 
to QIC assessing the claim for external damage (to the chimney) and to the internal damage. 
The latter would include any water damage Mr S says was caused to kitchen units and to 
any other contents in the property. So, it would be for QIC to assess these elements of 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Id expect that to involve 
discussion with Mr S and the outcome of the assessment would include the value (again, it 
isnt the role of this service to put a value on claims). 
On the points raised by QIC, I acknowledge theyve made a goodwill gesture to cover the 
cost of repairs to the roof tiles (not the chimney or the flat roof). As such, its not a claim 
under the policy, so I agree a policy excess wouldnt be applied. But QIC have agreed to 
make the payment, which I concluded was reasonable and should be paid (if it hasnt 
already been paid). So, I havent changed my view on this point.
On their second point, damage to the chimney, QIC have simply reiterated their view that the 
damage wasnt a direct result of a storm and the missing mortar in the chimney was due to 
gradual deterioration of the mortar. I considered this view carefully in my provisional 
decision, but concluded I was persuaded by Mr Ss view of how the damage was caused. 
That was, the lead flashing along the tile line had been blown upward, including the piece of 
flashing adjacent to the chimney. I thought that dislodged the mortar sitting on top of it. As 
the mortar around the rest of the base of the chimney remained in place and hasnt broken 
away, this suggested any cracking was only superficial. So, I didnt think mortar deterioration 
caused the damage to the chimney. QIC havent offered any new evidence that has caused 
me to change my view on this point.
On QICs third point (that as they hadnt covered any external damage under the storm 
section of the policy, they wouldnt provide cover for internal damage under the storm 
section either) Ive also considered this point. In my provisional decision I set out my reasons 
for disagreeing with QIC. Firstly, while I agreed theyve acted reasonably in declining the 
claim for the exterior damage to the flat roof (but not the chimney) on the grounds of 
deterioration, I didnt accept this meant the interior damage was automatically covered by 
the same reasons for decline. I concluded the interior damage was a direct consequence of 
the storm and the subsequent ingress of rainwater. And as I concluded the exterior damage 
to the chimney was unfairly declined, then any damage from rainwater ingress through that 
part of the property should be covered. QICs response doesnt address these reasons, so I 
havent changed my mind on this point. And as my conclusion didnt rely on the damage 
being covered under the accidental damage section of the policy (which Mr S hadnt taken 
out) then this point doesnt change my overall conclusion.
Ive noted QIC accept the provisional £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (on 
which Mr S hasnt commented) so I havent changed my view on that element of the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay for the repair to the main roof (£180) if they havent already done so.
Assess the claim for external damage to the chimney in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy (including, any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Assess the claim for interior damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy (including, any excess under the policy, as appropriate). Pay £200 for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman