DRN-4493324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the settlement paid by Great Lakes Insurance SE under their
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J hold annual travel insurance cover with Great Lakes. They were due to travel
abroad on 8 March for a two-day trip, but their flight was cancelled by the airline due to bad
weather. They returned home and re-booked their flight for 10 March, but the airline also
cancelled that flight and couldnt offer Mr and Mrs J an alternative. Mr and Mrs J therefore
decided to get a train to their destination. They did this on 10 March, and booked a new hotel
room abroad for 10 to 12 March.
Mr and Mrs J were able to obtain a refund of their flight from the airline. They made a claim
to Great Lakes for the airport parking costs, hotel costs for 10 to 12 March, and outward and
return train tickets.
Great Lakes dealt with the claim under the travel delay section of cover, and paid Mr and
Mrs J £100 to settle the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs J brought a complaint to this
Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Great Lakes had
assessed the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Ive read the policy terms and conditions. The travel delay section of the policy explains 
that benefit is payable if there is a delay to departure of at least 12 hours due to failure or 
delay of pre-booked public transport. It says if that happens, Great Lakes will pay benefit for 
each 12-hour period that the insured is delayed on their outward journey, or the full deposit 
or cancellation charges if the insured chooses to cancel the trip.
Great Lakes paid benefit under this section of the policy, and used the time that Mr and
Mrs J caught their train to work out how much should be paid. Whilst I can understand Great
Lakes reasoning here, Ive read the remainder of the policy and I think the claim would also
be payable under the missed connection cover. This says:
Disruption of Your scheduled travel itinerary due to the failure or delay of any pre-
booked Public Transport to the Trip destination point.

1. Reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses of an 
equivalent standard (up to the sum insured) to the original booking, 
necessarily incurred to reach the booking destination.
The policys definition of public transport includes scheduled airline flight operating to a
published timetable to join the booked travel itinerary.
We checked with Great Lakes, and it said the missed connection section would only apply if
the scheduled itinerary included a connection that was missed.
I appreciate the heading says missed connection. But theres nothing in the policy wording
of the section to say a connection would have to be missed for a claim to be payable. The
policy only says there would need to be disruption of the scheduled travel itinerary due to the
failure of any public transport to the destination point. Thats exactly what happened to Mr
and Mrs J, and so they incurred additional travel expenses in order to reach their destination.
Whilst Great Lakes may have intended for this section to only cover failure/delay of public
transport where the original itinerary included two or more means of public transport to reach
the destination point, that is not what the policy says. So it seems theres an inconsistency
between the section heading and the actual wording. I think it would be fair for any ambiguity
to be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Js favour.
I see the policy doesnt allow Great Lakes to pay a claim under both the travel delay section
and the missed connection section. As Mr and Mrs J would be entitled to a higher amount
under the missed connection section, I intend to find that Great Lakes should cover Mr and
Mrs Js additional travel expenses that they incurred to reach their destination under the
missed connection section of cover. Great Lakes can deduct the £100 already paid under
the travel delay section.
Ive checked the rest of the policy, and there isnt any cover for Mr and Mrs Js parking costs,
hotel costs or their return travel costs.
I asked both parties if they had any further comments to make before I made a final decision. 
Mr and Mrs J responded to say they had no issues with my provisional decision. 
Great Lakes responded to say the claim wouldnt fall under missed connection as the 
booking didnt include any connections which were missed. It therefore thought it had 
correctly assessed the claim under the travel delay benefit. Great Lakes also said that as the 
original flight was cancelled by the airline, then the airline should refund the cost of the flight, 
and it doesnt know if Mr and Mrs J ever approached the airline.
As both parties have responded before the deadline I gave, Ill now make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes doesnt agree with me that the claim should be covered under the missed 
connection section of the policy. It says the purpose of this is to provide cover for additional 
travel and accommodation costs if the policyholder were to miss their connection.
However, Great Lakes hasnt addressed my point that the policy wording doesnt say a 
connection has to be missed for a claim to be payable. It says there needs to be a disruption 
of the scheduled travel itinerary due to the failure of any public transport to the destination 
point. It seems to me that is what happened to Mr and Mrs J. 
As Ive said, Great Lakes may have intended for the policy to only cover the failure/delay of 
public transport where the original booking included two or more means of public transport to 
reach the destination, but that isnt what the policy actually says. I therefore remain satisfied that it would be fair for Great Lakes to cover Mr and Mrs Js additional travel expenses that 
they incurred to reach their destination under the missed connection section of the policy. 
Great Lakes says it doesnt know if Mr and Mrs J approached the airline for a refund of their 
cancelled flight. I explained in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs J had obtained a 
refund from the airline for the flight, and so this didnt form part of their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay 
for Mr and Mrs Js additional travel expenses that they paid to reach their destination under 
the missed connection section of the policy, in line with the remaining policy terms (Great 
Lakes can deduct the £100 already paid under the travel delay section).
Interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% simple per annum from a month after the
claim was made to the date of settlement*.
* If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman