DRN-2915381
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly threatened to 
close its business bank account.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by one of its directors, Mr J.
What happened
T hold a bank account with Barclays and in May 2020, it applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan. 
Shortly after Ts application was submitted, Barclays called Mr J to clarify some information 
they thought was incorrect when the bank had carried out their required checks. Mr J was 
unhappy with the questions asked by the Barclays member of staff and asked for a manager 
to call back.  
A manager returned Mr Js call, and Mr J says he was told Barclays would be closing Ts 
business account which caused him severe distress and disrupted the business. So Mr J 
made a complaint. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said Mr J used inappropriate language on 
the calls with both the member of staff and the manager, so they were unable to help him 
progress Ts loan application further. The bank also said the manager had told Mr J if he 
continued to use this language, they would close the account  but this was only a warning 
and no further action was taken except to cancel the Bounce Back Loan application. 
Barclays said Mr J insisted the information held with the bank was correct and wouldnt listen 
to the staff whod called him. 
The bank explained, as the information differed to what was held on Companies House, 
they couldnt proceed with Ts application and had no option but to cancel it. Barclays 
acknowledged this may have caused frustration for Mr J, but said they wouldnt accept him 
talking to staff inappropriately. And if it happened again, they would look to close Ts 
account. 
Mr J felt Barclays had acted unfairly by telling him they would close his account. He said 
hed been forced to open an account for T elsewhere causing it inconvenience. So he asked 
this service to look into Ts complaint and obtain a copy of the call recording with the bank. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Barclays hadnt been 
able to provide a call recording of the call as it had been made from a Barclays branch, 
rather than the helpline. The bank had explained that due to the volume of Bounce Back 
Loan applications they had received, theyd needed to use branch staff to liaise with 
customers, but these calls were made from corporate mobile phones and not recorded as 
they would be normally  which our investigator didnt think was unreasonable.
The investigator said as she couldnt listen to the call, she had to base her opinion on the 
other evidence available. She acknowledged Mr J disagreed, however shed reviewed the 
call notes, statements from the branch staff and call notes from previous interactions with 
Mr J when it had been recorded that hed also used inappropriate language. So she was 
persuaded this was more likely to have happened. 
So based on the statements and notes, the investigator said she didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly by not proceeding with Ts application. She also said the terms and conditions 
of Ts account gave Barclays the right to the close an account if a customer behaved 
inappropriately, and based on what shed seen, she thought it was likely there had been an 
issue - so it was reasonable the bank had warned Mr J what could happen should he 
continue. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said Barclays had told him Ts account would be closed which is why 
he moved it to another bank. He said hed not been rude and that it was in the banks 
interests not to have the call recording. Mr J also said it wasnt fair Barclays hadnt 
proceeded with Ts application. He also said it was unfair the investigator had placed more 
weight on the banks version of events as it was in the banks interests to protect themselves 
as hed said he was going to complain about the processing of Ts Bounce Back Loan 
application. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr J and Barclays have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint and Ive taken 
onboard all their points. Where evidence is unavailable, incomplete or contradictory, I must 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the evidence available and the wider circumstances. And I have needed to 
do that here.
Mr J has told us he doesnt agree with Barclays decision not to proceed with Ts application. 
So I need to see if the bank acted reasonably in how they processed the application. 
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government-backed scheme, there were still 
eligibility requirements, with checks having to be made and with some discretion for lenders 
to have the final say as to whether to approve the loan. The checks a borrower would be 
subject to when applying for a loan from any lender included, customer fraud, Anti-Money 
Laundering and Know Your Customer checks.
When Barclays completed their checks, they identified some discrepancies in the information 
Mr J had provided, compared to what was showing at Companies House. Ive seen evidence 
of Barclays system notes that show several different members of staff tried to explain to 
Mr J what they needed to progress Ts application but werent able to do so. As Barclays 
werent able to satisfy themselves the information was correct, they couldnt be sure theyd 
be able to comply with their regulatory requirements and those of the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. So the bank didnt proceed with Ts application and I think Barclays acted 
reasonably as theyd tried several times to clarify the discrepancy and couldnt leave 
applications outstanding.
Mr J has also told us he doesnt agree he was rude to the Barclays staff and hes unhappy 
the calls in question werent recorded. He also says he was told Barclays would be closing 
Ts business account rather than in the future if his behaviour didnt change. I acknowledge Mr J is unhappy that the calls werent recorded but Barclays has already explained that this 
was due to the high volume of applications the bank received for the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, so additional staff were needed to speed up the application process. 
As the Scheme was set up to enable businesses to receive funding as quickly as possible, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to take this step. I also recognise Mr J thinks 
this has breached the GDPR rules, but I dont agree. I say this because these rules apply 
when calls are recorded  not when they arent  and Mr J is able to obtain a copy of 
Barclays written records via a subject access request should he wish to do so. However, 
Mr J should be aware as T is a business, that this may not provide the same information as 
a personal request and he may not get the information he requires.
  
Mr J has said he was told Barclays would be closing Ts account and thats why he went to 
the trouble of opening an account elsewhere. He also says Barclays version of events differs 
to his own. As I dont have access to the call recording, I cant say for certain what was said. 
However, I have seen the note which says Mr J was given a warning and if the call was 
unproductive, I think its possible there may have been some miscommunication here.
Ive also seen other Barclays notes, which were recorded by different members of staff at the 
point the calls took place. And each of the system notes said there had been some difficulty 
when speaking to Mr J. 
So based on the evidence which was created at the time of the calls and the number of 
instances, Im persuaded Barclays had satisfactory reason to tell Mr J they would take action 
to close his account - should he continue to deal with them in this manner. And given that I 
havent seen any evidence Barclays took any action to close Ts account after the call took 
place, I think its most likely that Mr J was only given a warning during this call. So I dont 
think Barclays have behaved unreasonably here.
I recognise that Mr J feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong. So, I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman