DRN-4181588
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) didnt return a bill of exchange 
when it declined the bill  as payment towards Mr Ds credit card. He would like 
compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for  my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr D has already had one complaint dealt with by this service in relation to his 
payment being declined. This complaint specifically deals with the fact that  once  
Capital One said it was unable to use the bill of exchange towards Mr Ds credit card 
payment Mr D asked for this document back but says he hasnt received it.
Capital One told us it sent the bill of exchange back  22 October 2022, the notes on 
its system however only refer to a letter being sent not to the bill being returned. 
Capital One has explained it uses standard delivery not a tracking service so it cant 
track if the bill was delivered or not. Based on this information I cant be entirely sure 
the bill of exchange was returned or not.
The information that has been provided is confusing.  I have seen a letter sent to Mr 
D dated 25 October 2022 which says the payment is in the process of being cleared. 
I have also seen a date stamp of 19 October 2022 on the letter Mr D sent with his 
payment which states no payment processed. I dont have an explanation for this 
anomaly  the letter could have been generated by a systems or human error. But I 
dont feel the anomaly in these dates amounts to an attempt to defraud or 
deliberately deceive as Mr D believes. Capital One agreed with our investigators 
view to pay £75 compensation for the confusing communications and I think this is 
fair.   
Mr D has asked that the full value of the bill  just over £400 -  is refunded on the 
basis the bill could still be cashed. I dont think Mr Ds request is reasonable.  We 
know the bill wasnt cashed so Mr D he isnt out of pocket . And given Capital One 
has told us it doesnt use bills of exchange towards credit card payments  I dont think 
there is any risk of the bill being cashed, assuming of course Capital One  still has it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr D £75 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in relation to returning his 
bill
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman