DRN-3431370
The complaint
Mr B complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B was approved for one loan on 22 September 2021 and it was for £300 and repayable 
at £15 a week for 35 weeks. The total to pay was £525. In February 2022 when Morses 
wrote to us with its response to the complaint it said that the loan was open and the 
outstanding balance was £525. Morses has informed me of the updated position 
(September 2022) which is that Mr B has paid nothing towards the loan.
Morses explained that it had credit referenced Mr Bs declared income (just under £404 a 
week) and had run a credit check as well. Mr B had given Morses an expenditure sum of 
around £135 a week. So, Morses says that it considered the loan affordable.
One of our adjudicators thought that Mr Bs credit file revealed enough that Morses ought to 
have done further checks before lending. But from what she had seen on the information she 
had from Morses and Mr B she did not think that enough was revealed for the loan 
application to have been turned down.
Mr B disagreed and so the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 September 2022 in which I gave reasons why I considered that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
I gave time to both parties to respond.
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision and Morses has updated me to say that Mr B 
has paid nothing towards the loan so far. Morses has told me that the account was passed 
to a DCA by which I think it means a Debt Collection Agency. 
The reply date is today and as I have heard from both parties I issue my final decision now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but that is not applicable for Mr B as he 
took one loan only which means that there was no pattern of lending.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Following my provisional decision  the findings for which were the same as those given 
here  I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Reviewing Morses credit search the results revealed a great deal of debt and historic 
financial issues. Mr B had had more than one County Court Judgment in the past (the most 
recent one being May 2018) which together totalled £2,249, and many defaults, the most 
recent being only four months before he applied for the Morses loan.
For a first loan and for a modest sum of £300 applied for then normally I would not consider 
it proportionate for additional checks to be warranted. But here, Mr B had nearly £22,000 
worth of debts on the active accounts. 
The credit search showed he had 16 active SHARE records, and he was due to repay £787 
a month on any fixed term accounts which are active according to the credit search Morses 
has provided for us to review. 
Mr B had used 16 different companies in the previous six months leading up to the Morses 
loan application. All of this indicates that Mr B had financial issues and so here I would have 
expected Morses  to have done more.
But whether Morses did do further checks or not, even using the details Morses already had, 
then I have looked at what Mr B likely would have been repaying each month  or was 
meant to have been repaying each month  for his credit. That was £787 plus the £65 (monthly equivalent of £15 a week) for the Morses loan which 
together would have meant £852 each month. 
Mr Bs declared (and Morses says verified) income was the monthly equivalent of £1,750 
which meant that Mr B was committed to paying between 48% and 50% of his income on all 
his debts. In the circumstances I consider this to have been far too high to be sustainable. 
And because of this I think that Morses had enough information before it lent to realise it 
ought not to have further lent to him. 
Since issuing that provisional decision Morses has sent no further information about the core 
of the complaint. I have reviewed the complaint and my conclusion is the same. I uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I made it clear that on the evidence I had it looked as though Mr B 
had paid nothing towards the loan and in those circumstances there would be no refund due 
to him. But nonetheless Mr B was content about the provisional decision and so it seems he 
did not disagree. So, the core of the debt (£300) is still payable to Morses  without any of 
the additional fees, interest or charges (including any of the third party DCAs fees and 
charges). Mr B has paid nothing towards the loan and so there can be no refund or set-off.
Mr B will owe to Morses the capital sum of £300 which means that Morses must remove all 
unpaid interest and charges which includes any third partys charges as well. But 
considering what I have said about Mr Bs financial position, I remind Morses to approach 
Mr B and the debt in a positive and sympathetic way.
And Id expect Morses (and any third party DCA) to amend Mr Bs credit file by removing any 
adverse payment information from there.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct that Morses Club PLC does as 
I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman