DRN-2801447
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plcs cashback policy discriminated against them 
because they live in Scotland.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a joint account with Santander, a 123 current account. This account has 
a cashback feature, in which account holders who pay their household bills by direct debit 
are paid a percentage of their payments by Santander. For water bills, this was one per cent, 
but in July 2020 Santander wrote to its customers to tell them that this would be increased to 
three per cent, with effect from October. Mr complained that he and his wife would not 
benefit from this increase, because they live in Scotland, and their water bills are not 
charged separately but as part of their council tax bill. Council tax bills continued to receive 
cashback at one percent.
Mr M argued that Santanders policy was discriminatory, because people living in Scotland 
would not benefit from it, whereas people in England would. The bank did not uphold his 
complaint, so he referred this complaint to our Service, on behalf of himself and his wife.
Our investigator decided that Santander had done nothing wrong. He said it was not within 
his remit to decide whether Mr and Mrs M had been discriminated against, but only to say 
whether they had been treated fairly, and he thought they had been. He said that Santander 
had made a legitimate business decision, had given proper advance notice of it, and had 
given its customers a number of options they could take if they no longer thought the 123 
account was suitable for them. He also noted that not everyone in Scotland pays for their 
water in their council tax bill, and that people who pay Scottish Water directly would benefit 
from the cashback increase.
Mr M still thought this was unfair, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that water bills are administered differently in different parts of the United Kingdom 
is not Santanders fault. I dont think Santander is obliged to organise its cashback policy so 
that any such differences are irrelevant. I also note that Mr and Mrs M are no worse off 
financially since the change than they were before. So I dont think they have been treated 
unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021. Mr M may reply on behalf of them both.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman