DRN-2837121
The complaint
Mr G complains about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) poor service when 
he made a mobile phone insurance claim. My references to AIG include its agents.
What happened
Mr G has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. AIG is the insurer.
In June 2020 Mr G claimed for his damaged mobile phone. Mr G complains about the  
problems with AIG collecting his phone and when it was returned to him the phone was still 
damaged. He contacted AIG and there was again a problem with collection. Also AIG took 
over three weeks to repair the phone.
AIG accepted there were problems with the collection of the phone, the first repair, the delay 
of the second repair and its communication. It offered Mr G £215 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Mr G complained to us as he thinks AIGs offer isnt enough particularly when hed paid a 
claim excess of £100. 
Our investigator said AIGs compensation offer was reasonable. 
Mr G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
he was unable to leave his home for four weeks because he was waiting for AIG to 
collect his phone. This was immediately after the first Covid-19 stay at home 
restrictions had been lifted so it had a big impact on him. Having no phone effected 
his opportunity to find work and his mental health over that period
he spent over seven hours on the phone to AIG as he was constantly chasing it. AIG 
didnt phone him back or email him as it said it would  
as he couldnt leave home for 30 days £215 compensation was only £7 a day and 
that didnt take into account the hours he spent on the phone to AIG.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIG doesnt dispute it gave poor service to Mr G. The issue I need to decide is whether its 
offer of £215 compensation for Mr Gs distress and inconvenience due to its poor service 
was enough, and I think it was. I dont uphold this complaint because:
AIGs records show there were around four failed collections for Mr Gs phone. I dont 
accept the failed collections meant Mr G couldnt leave his home for four weeks. 
Each collection was booked for a specific date, not a range of dates. This isnt a 
situation where AIG booked collections then failed to turn up on multiple consecutive 
dates which meant Mr G had to stay in every day
AIG took too long to return Mr Gs phone the second time it was repaired which 
would have been very frustrating for him. But Ive no evidence to support that he had 
no other way to look for work opportunities he was likely to get and anyway the policy 
specifically doesnt cover any loss related to you being unable to use your phone.
Mr G phoned AIG on several occasions due to the failed collections and chasing 
what was happening about the return of his phone for the second time. That took up 
his time and AIG accept it should have kept Mr G more informed about the claim 
progress. But generally I dont award compensation just on a time spent basis. Im 
considering Mr Gs overall trouble and upset caused by AIG
while I dont accept that the failed phone collections meant Mr G had to stay at home 
for four weeks, I do accept Mr G was annoyed, frustrated and put to some 
inconvenience by AIGs poor service. However, I wouldnt have awarded more than 
£215 compensation, which AIG had already offered. Under the terms of the policy 
Mr G did have to pay a £100 claim excess but I dont take the excess into account 
when deciding a reasonable amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
which is a separate matter.  
Im satisfied AIGs offer of £215 compensation for Mr Gs distress and inconvenience was a 
reasonable amount. If Mr G now wishes to accept AIGs offer he should contact it direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman