DRN-3065353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy about the administration of the maturity of their mortgage 
endowment policy with Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out their endowment policy with Clerical Medical in 1995 to protect and 
repay their mortgage with a high street lender. The policy was assigned to the lender, which 
meant it was entitled to the maturity value. This lenders mortgages were transferred to a 
lender Ill call N in 2007. Subsequently, many of the mortgages N held were transferred to 
other lenders, one of which was H.  If a policy was assigned to a lender at the time of the 
transfer the assignment would also be transferred to the new lender.
In 2000 Mr and Mrs F re-mortgaged their home to a different lender. At that time it would 
have been normal for the endowment policy to have been reassigned to Mr and Mrs F by the 
first lender. However, it doesnt appear that it was. As such, when all of the original lenders 
mortgage business was transferred to N, so was the policy assignment, even though there 
was no mortgage with it at that time.  
Clerical Medical has informed us that its records were subsequently changed to show that 
the assignment had been transferred to H. Clerical Medical has explained that it believes this 
was done as a result of a bulk change made on multiple policies, based on a single 
communication from the lender. As such, there is no record of the change instruction on the 
individual policy record.
The policy was due to mature in April 2020. As Clerical Medicals records showed that the 
policy was assigned to H, it wrote to H in December 2019 to ask if H still had an interest in 
the policy and if not, it asked H to provide confirmation of that.
At the beginning of March 2020 Mr F called Clerical Medical to find out about the maturity 
process. The process was explained, along with the fact that its records showed that H had 
an interest in the policy. Mr F said that wasnt the case and confirmed no lender had an 
interest in the policy. Details to contact H were provided and a maturity pack was ordered to 
be sent to Mr and Mrs F. Mr F wrote to H to request that it confirm it had no further interest in 
the policy, but it didnt respond.
The maturity pack was produced on 10 March 2020. This confirmed that Clerical Medicals 
records showed that the policy was assigned to H. It was explained that if this was not the 
case, Mr and Mrs F would need to provide a letter from H stating that it had no interest in the 
policy. They were also told what the maturity value would be, assuming the remaining 
premium due was paid. 
Mr and Mrs F informed Clerical Medical later that month that theyd never had a mortgage 
with H. They confirmed which lender the policy had been assigned to and that theyd 
re-mortgaged twice since then. They asked for confirmation that Clerical Medical would pay 
them the maturity proceeds. 
Mr F chased a few days later and Clerical Medical agreed to chase H for the required 
response. A chaser letter was sent to H that day. Another chaser was sent around three 
weeks later, in the middle of April 2020.
At the end of April 2020 Mr and Mrs F complained about not having received the maturity 
value. Clerical Medical told us that it was while it was investigating the complaint that it 
thought to contact N about the assignment, in case it had been incorrectly told that the 
assignment had been transferred to H. It wrote to N at the beginning of June 2020.
Clerical Medical upheld Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and paid them £250 for the inconvenience 
theyd experienced during the maturity process. It confirmed that during its investigation into 
the complaint that it had identified that it hadnt been communicating with the correct 
company. It said that whilst H had taken over a number of mortgages from N, H didnt have 
an association with their policy. As such, it had written to N. 
Clerical Medical chased N for a response in August, two months after it had originally written 
to it.  A further chaser was sent a week later. No response was received to any of its letters.
Mr F emailed Clerical Medical on 18 October 2020. He had been corresponding with N and it 
had provided him with a letter of no further interest for the policy. This letter was dated 
15 October 2020.  A copy was attached to the email. 
Mr and Mrs F raised further concerns with Clerical Medical about the maturity of the policy. 
They were unhappy about the overall time that had been taken for the maturity to be 
completed. In addition, they questioned why the maturity hadnt been paid in July, as this 
was when N had confirmed it had provided what Clerical Medical needed. 
Clerical Medical responded again. It said it was unable to uphold the complaint about it not 
processing the maturity in July as it hadnt received the letter Mr F had referred to. However, 
Clerical Medical acknowledged that it had caused delays and paid Mr and Mrs F late 
payment interest for the periods of those delays in 2020: 21 April to 5 June, 2 July to 
17 August and 14 September to 6 November. It said the periods it didnt pay interest for 
were those where it was waiting for something from N. In addition, it offered Mr and Mrs F a 
further £200 for the inconvenience theyd suffered due to the further delays in settlement.
While Clerical Medical confirmed the maturity payment would be processed in October 2020, 
it wasnt possible because of a change in computer system, which had prevented the 
maturity from being issued. Mr and Mrs F were assured the payment would be made by 
cheque the following week, but no cheque was received. A further complaint was made.
The maturity payment was made by bank transfer on 30 November 2020.
Clerical Medical confirmed that the cheque hadnt actually been sent. It apologised for this. It 
paid Mr and Mrs F interest on the maturity value for the additional delay. It also paid them a 
further £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied with the response they received from Clerical Medical and 
asked us to consider the complaint. When they did, they questioned why the late payment 
interest hadnt been paid for the entire period between the maturity date and the date of 
payment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She was satisfied that the £700 Clerical 
Medical had paid Mr and Mrs F for the inconvenience they had suffered was an appropriate 
amount. However, she concluded that it should pay late payment interest on the maturity 
value for the entire period between the maturity date and the date of payment. Clerical Medical didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said that at some point it 
must have received a bulk update from H regarding the transfer of assignment of policies 
from N. As such, it had correctly written to H in the first instance. It was only in light of the 
lack of response from H that it thought of writing to N. 
Our investigator considered what Clerical Medical had said, but she didnt change her 
conclusion. She was satisfied that Mr and Mrs F had been deprived of the money owed to 
them in April 2020 due to no fault of their own. She remained satisfied that late payment 
interest at 8% simple per annum should be paid for the entire period the maturity payment 
was outstanding.
Clerical Medical maintained that it hadnt done anything wrong in approaching H as its 
records would only have been updated if it had been told to do so by H or N. It doesnt check 
that assignment until claim stage and then it is checked if the assignment is still valid. That is 
what it did in December 2019, as its records showed that the policy was assigned to H. It 
also said that whilst its first complaint response had said it had incorrectly contacted H, this 
was not the case. Clerical Medical believed its complaint handler had incorrectly interpreted 
an internal communication which said that the interest noted for H appeared to be a mistake, 
i.e. Clerical Medical had been given incorrect information, rather than it had made a mistake. 
Clerical Medical maintained that it shouldnt have to pay late payment interest for the periods 
it was waiting for N to do something.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for determination.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Below are excerpts. 
This complaint is about two short periods of time for which Clerical Medical has refused to 
pay late payment interest to Mr and Mrs F on the maturity value of their policy. It has done 
so because it considers that a third party is responsible for those periods of delays. 
I have considered Clerical Medicals position on this matter, but I dont consider its 
reasonable. As our investigator confirmed, Mr and Mrs F were at no fault during any of this 
period and actually resolved the matter themselves. However, they were deprived of their 
money for many months. 
It is normal industry practice for a life assurance company to pay late payment interest if a 
maturity or surrender is paid significantly outside normal service standards. Why those 
service standards were missed is important, but if it is not the policyholders fault, late 
payment interest will be paid, whether the life assurance company considers the delays were 
its fault or not. I see no reason for Clerical Medical to have departed from this approach. Of 
course, if it feels strongly enough about the lender having caused delays, it is open to it to 
approach the lender for a contribution after it has paid the appropriate interest to 
Mr and Mrs F.
and
Clerical Medical should calculate late payment interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum for 
the period from the maturity date to the date the maturity value was paid. From this sum it 
should deduct the interest already paid. 
If Scottish Widows Limited deducts tax from the interest payment it should provide 
Mr and Mrs F with appropriate documentation for use with HMRC if they request it. The resultant sum should be paid to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F accepted my provisional decision. 
Clerical Medical didnt respond, although I am satisfied it received the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided further evidence or comment, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions. I remain satisfied that this complaint should be upheld, and interest paid for the 
entire period Mr and Mrs F were deprived of the maturity value.
Putting things right
Late payment interest should be calculated on the maturity value, at a rate of 8% simple per 
annum, from the date of maturity to the date it was paid to Mr and Mrs F. From this sum the 
interest Clerical Medical has already paid should be deducted.
If Clerical Medical has deducted tax from the previous interest payment and deducts tax 
from the additional interest awarded here, it should provide Mr and Mrs F with appropriate 
documentation for use with HMRC if they request it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Scottish Widows Limited trading as 
Clerical Medical to settle this complaint as detailed above in putting things right.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman