DRN-3736454
The complaint
Mr W complains West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) unfairly settled his claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of West Bay involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to West Bay.
What happened
Following an incident where a third-party vehicle crashed into Mr Ws car, he made a claim 
on his motor insurance policy that he held with West Bay.
West Bay found Mr Ws car to be a total loss and made an initial settlement offer of £2,450 
which was increased to £2,500 after he disputed the amount.
Mr W disagreed with the amount paid. He said he would like his car to be valued at £4,000. 
He said a replacement car was unavailable for the price offered.
As Mr W was not happy with West Bay, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said the offer 
made by West Bay was within the range of the trade guide prices, and so this was a fair and 
reasonable offer. They said they cant fairly ask it to increase its valuation offer.
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.#
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether West Bay acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr W following the write-off of his car. My 
role is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of 
settlement is fair.
I firstly looked at the details within Mr Ws motor insurance policy with West Bay. Within the 
policy terms and conditions it says;
Market Value - The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, 
model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage 
happened.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices. Its usual for cars to sell for less than 
advertised. Thats why we use the trade guides, as these provide stronger evidence of retail 
selling prices.
I looked at the information West Bay had used when calculating the market value for 
Mr Ws car. It saw that it obtained valuations from three of the main trade guides in order to 
obtain an accurate valuation.
In this case, the trade guides gave a fairly wide range of values, however its fair to note that 
the terms and conditions of your policy (and our approach to complaints of this nature) mean 
that West Bay dont have to offer the top or average guide price for a vehicle when it has 
been assessed as a total loss. Our approach is that provided the insurers offer is within the 
range of the trade guide prices (which are based on retail transacted prices  not trade 
values), we think it is fair and reasonable.
Ive considered West Bays final offer, to see if its in line with the valuation 
recommendations. It offered £2,500 as the pre accident valuation for Mr Ws car. This is  
within the range of the trade guide prices so, I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr W said since the pandemic there has been a booming second-hand car trade. He said he 
spent a lot of time looking for a replacement car. I do agree that there is a shortage of 
second-hand cars available in the market at the current time, but this is a situation that is 
outside the control of West Bay and it cannot be held responsible for this.
I do accept that prices of used cars can change on a regular basis. This could be an 
increase or decrease. The trade guides do regularly update their valuation algorithms which 
can cause different values to be given if they're run on different dates. This is the reason 
why we take the approach that if West Bay can demonstrate, as it has done here, that it 
used a fair process to value the car initially then we wouldn't interfere with the offer it has  
made. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, and I understand he had to travel a 
distance to obtain a replacement car, however, for the reasons given Im not persuaded that 
West Bay have acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling his claim at £2,500. Therefore, I 
cant fairly ask West Bay to increase their valuation offer.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and do not require West Bay to do anything
further in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman