DRN-3932826
The complaint
Ms G and Mr W complain Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed over many months 
to deliver a replacement debit card to their overseas address.
What happened
Ms G says she moved overseas in July 2021 and updated the address for her sole and joint 
accounts online. Ms G says despite several requests for replacement debit cards these 
never arrived. Ms G says she was unable to access online banking or use her bank account 
for almost a year. Ms G also felt Nationwide had cancelled in error a debit card on her joint 
account with Mr W causing further issues. Ms G says she eventually received her debit card 
by arranging for it to be sent elsewhere for onward transit, but not with Nationwides help. Ms 
G says Nationwide havent adequately compensated her for the inconvenience and upset 
she has gone through over this time. 
Nationwide says it sent several debit cards to the correct address it held on file and its not 
responsible if those cards werent delivered for any reason. Nationwide says the debit card 
on her joint account wasnt cancelled in error as it carried out the instructions provided in a 
web chat with a member of its staff. As a gesture of goodwill Nationwide paid Ms G and Mr 
W £25 to the joint bank account. 
Ms G and Mr W werent happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says from the information provided Nationwide had cancelled the debit card to 
the joint account as it had been instructed, so it wasnt at fault. The investigator felt although 
she couldnt hold Nationwide responsible for the non-delivery of the debit cards to the 
address overseas, it could have provided an alternative way of sending these bearing in 
mind there had been multiple occasions previously when its method of sending them had 
been unsuccessful.
With that in mind the investigator felt Nationwide should pay Ms G and Mr W a further £300 
given the stress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Nationwide initially felt the amount suggested by the investigator wasnt fair, but later agreed 
to pay this amount. Ms G and Mr W felt the matter should be considered by an ombudsman 
to review the level of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms G and Mr W having moved overseas, 
not to have received their debit cards and have access to their online banking, despite 
several requests to Nationwide to put this right. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide could have done anymore to 
have helped Ms G and Mr W when it became aware the debit cards it sent to them, hadnt 
arrived at their address overseas. 
The first thing to say here is Nationwide having re-considered the investigators view have 
agreed to pay the £300 recommended redress the investigator suggested but Ms G and Mr 
W didnt feel this went far enough, given the lack of support Nationwide provided and the 
trouble and upset they went through. So, when considering this complaint I will focus on 
whether the amount of redress is sufficient here.  
Ms G says they now have access to their online banking and have the debit cards they need 
but only due to the fact she arranged for a temporary change of address to a friend in the UK 
and not as a result of any help from Nationwide. 
Its worth mentioning that although Ms G says Nationwide also cancelled the wrong debit 
card relating to the joint account, like the investigator the web chat notes seem to indicate 
Ms G asked for that card to be cancelled, so its fair to say Nationwide werent at fault here. 
The centre of this complaint concerns the number of occasions debit cards were sent to the 
overseas address, which Nationwide have shown were sent to the correct address overseas 
but were never received by Ms G  or Mr W and Ms G believes Nationwide could have done 
more to help them. 
Its reasonable to say that perhaps Nationwide could have tried to have established a work 
around for the access to the online banking problems Ms G faced, by not having her debit 
card. That said, sending communications of any type overseas will have challenges and 
theres no guarantee this issue may not reoccur going forward- after all Nationwide cant be 
held responsible for postal service issues here or overseas. Unlike the investigator I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Nationwide to issue future debit cards by tracked post or 
courier, as thats not part of its standard service or procedures. 
So going forward its important Ms G and Mr W consider putting in place a suitable 
alternative for future correspondence, given the postal issues they have experienced in the 
past as Nationwide have made clear, overseas communications remain challenging and 
thats not unreasonable for it to say. 
That said Nationwide have accepted it could have provided a better service at the time and 
have offered to pay a further £300 making £325 in total. With that in mind and as its not the 
role of this service to penalise banks when service issues arise, I am satisfied that is a fair 
amount of redress given the length of time involved here. 
While Ms G and Mr W may not agree, I am satisfied this offer of compensation is a fair 
outcome.
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms G and Mr W a further £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms G and Mr W a further £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman