DRN-1662162
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading a Halifax mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). She paid a monthly fee 
for the account and received several potential benefits in return. She thinks that Bank of 
Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened 
Miss B has banked with Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has looked 
at its records for her, which I believe are reliable, and has told us they show that: 
in October 2009, Miss B opened a fee-free account,
in May 2010, Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA, which replaced her fee-free 
account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in July 2015, Miss B switched back to a fee-free account,
Miss B closed her account in September 2017.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Bs complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give Miss B any money back. Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss B and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Miss B has told us quite a bit about her recollections of the way Bank of Scotland sold her 
the URCA. Shes said that she remembers going into one of its branches, possibly to 
enquire about a mortgage, and that one of the banks representatives sold her account while 
she was there. Shes told us that Bank of Scotland pressured her into buying the account 
and that she only bought it due to this pressure. Shes said that she didnt want the benefits 
the URCA could provide and has described them as worthless for her. 
Bank of Scotland has agreed that it sold the URCA to Miss B during a meeting at one of its 
branches but has denied applying pressure. It thinks it did things fairly and gave Miss B a 
choice to keep her fee-free account or to buy the URCA.
Obviously, I wasnt present during the discussion between Bank of Scotland and Miss B, and 
neither party has been able to send us any detailed records from the time, so I cant be 
certain about what happened. But I have considered the evidence that is available to decide 
what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2010, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Miss B, as well as giving her a choice, I 
would have expected it to tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly, and without 
pressure; and in an advised sale I would also have expected it to check that the URCA was 
appropriate for her circumstances. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that it sold the URCA to Miss B on an information-only basis. 
This was its usual approach in 2010 and I havent seen anything to make me think it 
changed its normal practice for Miss B. So, I have considered this complaint to be about an 
information-only sale.
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included insurance for travel and mobile phones 
and use of a car breakdown service. Bank of Scotland also offered customers with URCAs 
lower cost overdrafts than it usually provided to customers with fee-free accounts. I fully 
accept that Bank of Scotland may have spoken to Miss B positively about these benefits, 
after all it was trying to sell the URCA to her, but Im not convinced it pressured her. I think 
its more likely that at the time she found some of the benefits potentially useful to her. For 
example, I understand that she travelled from time-to- time and may have had a potential 
need for travel insurance. Indeed, Bank of Scotland has records which show she made 
enquiries about the travel insurance later on. And its records also show that she registered 
some mobile phones for the insurance cover. 
Miss B has also mentioned that she had to pay extra for the travel insurance due to a 
medical condition she had and thinks this was unfair. However, its quite common for 
insurers to charge extra for such cover in these circumstances and Im satisfied that Bank of 
Scotland told her about the requirement, so I think it met its obligation to her over this.
There isnt any significant dispute that Bank of Scotland told Miss B about the fees she 
would have to pay, and as she had previously held a fee-free account Im satisfied that she 
knew she had a choice.
Miss B has also mentioned that she may have had duplicate cover for some of the URCAs 
benefits. However, in an information-only sale, this would have been something for Miss B to 
consider for herself. 
In recent correspondence with us, Miss B has mentioned that she has had some financial 
difficulties and in more recent times has had a large overdraft. Im sorry to hear about these 
difficulties, Im not sure when they occurred and I dont know the extent to which she raised 
them with Bank of Scotland, but I dont think they mean that Bank of Scotland mis-sold her 
the URCA in 2010.
Miss B has also mentioned that there was some delay when she tried to close her URCA in 
2015. However, Bank of Scotland seems to have refunded her some of the monthly fees she 
paid at that time, plus some further compensation for other charges. I think this was a fair 
response. 
So, in summary, while I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right in 
the way it sold the URCA to Miss B, Im satisfied that it gave her a choice and told her about the accounts potential benefits and costs. It doesnt seem to have pressured her and I dont 
think it mis-sold the URCA to her.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman