DRN-2682431
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) declined his 
claim under his home insurance policy for damage caused by a leak from his down pipe and 
external walkway. He complains that Ocaso declined his claim because it incorrectly 
recorded the loss date. 
What happened
Mr O noted black damp and mould patches on his wall and ceiling. Although he painted over 
them, they returned. Mr O reported the damage to the local authority which arranged for a 
roofer and builder to inspect it. They identified the cause of water ingress as a cracked 
downpipe and damaged external walkway. The local authority was responsible for the 
walkway repairs.
Mr O made a claim under his home insurance for the damage inside his home. Ocaso 
arranged for a loss adjuster (LA) to visit but made Mr O aware that it was unlikely his claim 
would be accepted. That was because Mr O reported that the mould had been present for 
months and months and his policy had a 90-days timescale for reporting loss.
The LA reported that there was a significant amount of black mould which wouldve been 
present for some time. Ocaso declined the claim because of the delay reporting the damage 
and because the damage had happened gradually.
Mr O complained to Ocaso because it had incorrectly recorded that he noticed the damage 
over six months before his claim. He didnt think he had exceeded the 90-days timescale for 
reporting the damage. Ocaso apologised for incorrectly recording the date, but it still 
declined the claim because the evidence indicated that Mr O had been aware of the problem 
for a while and it had happened gradually.
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint. She thought the policy term for making a claim 
was vague and there was no clear evidence that Mr O wouldve been aware of the damage 
happening gradually. Our investigator thought Ocaso should settle the claim and pay Mr O 
£150 compensation for the delays and because of the way it handled his claim call.
Ocaso didnt agree. It repeated that it had made an error when recording the date that Mr O 
first noticed the damage. But it maintained that the evidence supported its view of a 
gradually operating cause.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
The cause and extent of the damage doesnt appear to be in dispute. The key issue for me 
to decide is whether it was fair for Ocaso to decline Mr Os claim for the reasons it gave  
initially that he made his claim out of time, and then because it thought the damage was the 
result of a gradually operating cause.
The second issue is Mr Os complaint about the way Ocaso communicated with him when 
he made his claim. 
Out of time
The policy states, If anything happens which might lead to a claim, what you must do 
depends on what has happened. The sooner you tell us, the better. If we have not heard 
from you within 90 days we may not consider your claim.
Ocaso logged the incorrect date and it declined Mr Os claim because he reported the 
damage outside the 90-days timescale. It has since accepted that it shouldnt have recorded 
the date it did and apologised to Mr O. Nevertheless, Ocaso still thought hed been aware of 
the damage for some time. 
Looking at the evidence, I can see that Mr O reported that the damage was evident for a 
period ranging from months and months to a specific date eight weeks earlier. Ocaso 
checked the date with him several times, but from his first contact its clear Mr O wasnt sure 
exactly when he noticed the damage, so I dont think its fair to rely on his estimates as 
evidence.
Mr O reported the damage to his local authority a month before he made his claim to Ocaso. 
The external walkway was local authority property so its reasonable that he reported the 
damage to it before he contacted Ocaso, and the evidence suggests that he called Ocaso as 
soon as the local authority confirmed the cause of the problem. Based on this sequence of 
events, and on balance, I think its unlikely Mr O wouldve been aware of the damage for too 
long before he called the local authority. He thought the local authority was responsible, so 
thered have been no reason to delay reporting the damage to it.
I appreciate that it means he might not have reported the damage to Ocaso within the 90-
days timescale, but I dont think that means Mr O simply allowed the damage to get worse. 
He explained that he painted over the mould thinking it was a minor problem caused by not 
having the windows open. I dont think thats unreasonable. The mould returned, he reported 
it to the local authority, the local authority inspected the damage, and then Mr O reported it 
to Ocaso. This seems a fairly logical sequence of events so I cant say what Mr O did was 
unreasonable.
The policy says Ocaso may not consider your claim if its reported outside the 90-days 
timeframe. I think it was reasonable for Ocaso to consider this element of the policy, but I 
dont think its a clear or strict deadline. In the circumstances, I think some flexibility around 
the timescale is warranted, given that Mr O had asked the local authority to look into the 
matter first. So, I dont think it was fair for Ocaso to decline Mr Os claim for the reason that 
he made his claim out of time.
Gradual damage
Moving on, Ocasos LA said the mould wouldve been present for some time and Mr O 
wouldve been aware of it. Mr O was aware of it which is why he painted over it and then, 
when it reappeared, he reported the matter to the local authority. I think its reasonable that 
he thought the local authority might fix the problem if it was responsible for the cause. 
While I accept that the mould was evident for an unknown period before Mr O made his 
claim to Ocaso, for the same reasons as above, I dont think its fair to decline his claim under the exclusion of a gradually operating cause. Thats because Mr O wasnt inactive 
during that time  he was trying to get the problem seen to. It was only once the local 
authority confirmed there was also a leak in the downpipe, for which Mr O was responsible, 
that he made his claim. If the walkway hadnt also leaked, and it was clear that he was 
responsible for arranging the repairs, I think its likely Mr O wouldve reported the damage to 
Ocaso sooner.
So, although Ocaso relied on the gradually operating cause exclusion to decline the claim, in 
the circumstances I think it shouldve considered the wider picture of events and the 
confusion around responsibility for the damage. I think its reasonable that Ocaso settles the 
claim in line with its usual process.
Customer service
Ocaso logged Mr Os claim stating that he first noticed the damage around seven months 
earlier. Ive listened to the claim call and I think Ocaso couldve done more to make sure it 
recorded accurate information. I wont repeat the details of the call here because both 
parties are well aware of the discussion. However, its clear that Mr O wasnt sure when the 
damage first occurred and there does appear to be an element of suggestion when the claim 
handler repeated information back to him. The claim handlers words were subtly different to 
Mr Os, giving the impression that hed been aware of the problem for longer. I dont have 
any reason to think the claim handler was intentionally leading Mr O. I understand that the 
claim handler would simply have been trying to clarify information by offering suggestions to 
narrow down a timeframe. Nevertheless, I think it contributed to the overall confusion around 
the claim, and for that reason Im satisfied that the proposed compensation of £150 is fair.
Overall, I think Mr O followed a logical route when trying to get the damage to his home 
fixed. Unfortunately, that route didnt fall neatly within Ocasos process and during that time 
the damage continued. In the circumstances, I think its fair for Ocaso to settle the claim and 
pay Mr O compensation for the shortfalls in handling his claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and Ocaso 
SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros should:
settle Mr Os claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, and
pay Mr O £150 compensation for the shortfalls in handling his claim leading to 
confusion around the timing of events.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman