DRN-4343543
The complaint
Mr B, Mr C and Mr C are business partners. They complain about how Bank of Scotland plc 
managed a request to release a charge on a property they jointly owned, including the new 
security sought by the bank to support their loan.
The partners are also directors of a company I shall call B. B has brought a parallel 
complaint to our service about the banks behaviour. As both complaints relate to the same 
set of circumstances, I have considered them together.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to all the parties.
The partners together own some properties and wanted to sell one of their properties, which 
I shall call W. The partners have a property loan with Bank of Scotland, which was secured 
on three properties, including W. Therefore, to sell W, they needed the bank to release the 
charge on this property. 
B has an overdraft with Bank of Scotland, which was secured by several personal 
guarantees, some of which were also tied to the charge on W.
 
So, in releasing the charge over W, the bank was reducing its security both on the partners 
loan and on Bs overdraft. For this reason, before releasing the charge, the bank reviewed 
both debts and the security it had in place.
The banks conclusion was that it wanted:
the partners to use some of the proceeds from the sale of W to repay part of their 
loan, bringing down the outstanding balance
to replace the personal guarantees supporting Bs overdraft with new guarantees
to tie the partners loan and Bs overdraft so that the guarantees and remaining 
charges worked together to cover both debts.
The bank estimated its legal fees to complete this work, for which it said B would be liable.
B complained. It said:
there was clearly adequate remaining security in place to cover the banks risk on 
each of the partners loan and Bs overdraft, so there was no need for new 
guarantees or to tie the debts together
as the changes to the security were unreasonable, so were the legal fees it was 
being charged
the bank hadnt provided any evidence to support its decision for the change to the 
security, or a breakdown of costs supporting the legal fees.
Bank of Scotland considered the complaint but said it had done nothing wrong. It said that 
releasing its charge over W created a material difference to its previous agreements with the 
partners and with B, and it needed to be comfortable that both forms of lending remained 
within its credit policy. It emphasised that this was its commercial decision to make. 
Later in the process, the bank acknowledged that it had taken longer to consider Bs 
concerns than it should have and offered B £200 in compensation. This has now been paid. 
As this is no long a point of complaint, I do not consider it further.
Not content with the banks response, Mr C brought Bs complaint to our service, and the 
partners also complained. 
Our investigator considered the complaints but said that, in his view, Bank of Scotland had 
made a reasonable request to enhance its security given the change in circumstances 
brought about through the sale of W. He didnt comment on the fees being charged to B by 
the banks solicitors. 
Neither B nor the partners agreed with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out, among other things, why I was not 
persuaded that the bank had assessed the level of security it required from the partners and 
B in a fair and reasonable way. Both B and the partners supported my overall findings. 
However, the bank did not agree. It responded with several comments, which I have 
addressed within my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between the partners, B and Bank of 
Scotland and considered all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the 
matters which I consider central to this complaint. I believe there are three issues:
As a condition for releasing its charge on W, the bank required significant changes to 
the security provided in support of both the partners loan and Bs overdraft. Did the 
bank act fairly and reasonably in making these requirements?
Did the bank protect the interests of B in how it managed the fees charged by its 
solicitor?
Did the bank act reasonably in its response to Bs requests for information to explain 
(i) the banks rationale for requiring changes to the security in place to support the 
partners loan and Bs overdraft, and (ii) the fees charged by the banks solicitors?
I consider each in turn.
Additional security
At the time the partners first discussed the sale of W with the bank, the value of their 
outstanding loan was almost £400,000. However, following the sale of W and a partial 
repayment, the debt reduced to around £250,000. 
B has an approved overdraft up to £100,000.
With regard to the partners loan, B said:
The banks accepted valuation for the two properties on which the partners loan 
remained secured was £870,000 (though, due to the increase in property prices 
since this valuation, the partners estimated they were actually worth about £1.5 
million). The bank had only ever indicated a requirement for a 50% loan to value (LTV).
With regard to Bs overdraft, B said:
The existing remaining guarantees, which secured Bs overdraft, and which were not 
tied to W (or to any property), were worth several times the value of its maximum 
overdraft liability. 
Although the bank didnt seem to acknowledge all of these guarantees, it had 
recognised that guarantees of £267,000 were already in place.
In addition, B has many other assets (eg vehicles, office equipment, tools and 
machinery) which are included in the security provided.
However, the bank said it had followed the advice of its panel lawyers who had 
recommended that the bank obtain new personal guarantees and a new corporate 
guarantee to link the two debts. 
B said that it had asked for contact with the banks panel lawyers to make its case, but the 
bank had refused. While I can appreciate this would have been frustrating for B, I can 
understand why the bank said this, given that its lawyers were instructed only to advise the 
bank.
B said it had already paid to put in place guarantees and it felt aggrieved that the bank was 
forcing it to incur substantial additional cost and inconvenience. B did not believe that the 
bank had provided any reasonable explanation for its requirements.
To complicate matters further, the paperwork which the bank had provided to B about its 
guarantees was incomplete. B had understood that the guarantees provided for its overdraft 
were entirely separate and unrelated to the security for the partners loan, which was 
supported by the paperwork provided to B when the guarantees were established. However, 
the bank said that some of the guarantees were supported by the charges over W, so Bs 
overdraft was effectively secured on W as well. It provided evidence to demonstrate this. 
Bank of Scotland recognised that something had clearly gone wrong in the past in the 
information provided to B but said this supported its case for reviewing and reforming the 
security in place for both the partners loan and Bs overdraft.
B also felt that the banks process for getting things resolved was unreasonably pressured. 
The bank kept encouraging B to sign the agreements, eg by warning that B would miss the 
sanction approval deadline if it took too long, which could cause new property valuations to 
be required at the partners expense. The bank said to B that, if it no longer wished its 
overdraft to be secured by charges on Ps two remaining properties, it had two choices: 
either to remove the overdraft and fund Bs working capital needs in a different way, or to 
offer the bank alternative tangible security such as a charge over personal properties  
though this would incur legal and valuation costs.
I looked into the value of the security in place for both the partners loan and Bs overdraft 
after the sale of W. 
The bank has accepted a valuation of the two remaining properties on which the 
partners loan is secured of £870,000, and its notes show that prices have risen so 
this is likely to underestimate their true value. On the basis of an outstanding debt of 
£250,000 and this accepted security valuation, it appears to me that the LTV of the 
outstanding partners loan was less than 30%. I also note that the security covenants 
in the loan agreement require only a 70% LTV ratio.
In addition, I note that, with regard to the partners outstanding loan, the partners had 
direct personal liability, and all three partners own their own residential properties.
The directors of B gave several personal guarantees securing Bs overdraft. Excluding those guarantees which were supported by the legal charge held by the 
bank over W, it appears to me that guarantees totalling about £600,000 remained. 
This is significantly above the £100,000 overdraft limit.
With the removal of W, there would have been no high-value security supporting the 
personal guarantees  though I note B has pointed to its other assets (eg vehicles, 
office equipment, tools and machinery) as providing some tangible security. 
Given the sale of W did reduce the security available to the bank on both the partners loan 
and Bs overdraft, I think it was reasonable for the bank to review its position. I also think its 
reasonable that, at this point, the bank might take a different view of the commercial risks 
surrounding the debts than at the point of lending, given the passage of time and changes in 
circumstances.
However, I am also mindful that, at the point of the banks review, it would have been 
prohibitive for B and the partners to establish new borrowing facilities elsewhere. 
In deciding whether the bank acted fairly and reasonably towards B and the partners, I have 
noted that the Standards of Business Practice for business customers, issued by the 
Lending Standards Board (LSB) and recognised by the FCA, state that firms should inform 
the customer if any securityis required to support the borrowing  and the reason why 
[and] the level of security required by the firm should be appropriate to the amount borrowed 
(Product Sale, point 8).
I pressed Bank of Scotland to explain its requirements for the new guarantees and a cross 
guarantee in light of these requirements. However, the bank simply replied that it followed 
the advice of its lawyers. The bank said that its requirements would both protect its risk 
position and ensure the guarantors were fully aware of the security pledged by them to cover 
their liabilities, suggesting that the various historic guarantees might have been subject to 
challenge if relied upon.
In response to my provisional finding, the bank highlighted that it had also considered the 
servicing of the remaining debt. It said that higher income was potentially now required to 
meet the banks credit policy servicing requirements, and that this had been a key reason for 
the cross guarantee. However, I note that the partners total debt reduced by £150,000 
(approximately 38%) through the sale of W. Moreover, it is not clear from the evidence 
provided by the bank how the servicing considerations had affected its requirement for the 
new guarantees.
Having considered this matter carefully, I do not believe that I have seen evidence to 
demonstrate that the bank assessed the level of security it required from the partners and B 
in a fair and reasonable way. While the bank is entitled to make a commercial decision on its 
risk and security, I would expect the bank to be able to explain to me (in confidence if 
necessary) its rationale for that decision, and to show how the security it required was 
appropriate, consistent with the LSB standards. In the absence of this explanation, and 
given the extent of security which was already in place (as set out above), I am concerned 
that the bank extended the protection of its interests beyond appropriate levels.
I acknowledge that the bank took independent legal advice on the security it should seek 
and followed this advice. However, it is for the bank to consider the advice it is given and to 
determine the appropriate security. In the circumstances of this case, and for the reasons set 
out above, I do not believe that the bank (or its lawyers on its behalf) have been able to 
explain to me how the security it required was appropriate.
In light of this view, the next question is how to put things right. As set out above, I am not in 
a position to say that the new security arrangements required by the bank were necessarily unfair; and I note that Bs principal concern has been about the cost of putting the new 
security arrangements in place. Therefore, I do not propose for the new guarantees to be 
unwound. Rather, I believe Bank of Scotland should reimburse B and the partners for some 
of the costs they have incurred. 
B has acknowledged that it would always have incurred some costs of its own, and been 
liable for some costs of the bank, to remove the charge on W and to amend the guarantees 
which it supported. I also acknowledge that the bank did not require all the proceeds from 
the sale of W to be used to repay the outstanding loan; and did not require the revaluation of 
the remaining properties, as it might have required.
My understanding is that:
on 24 November 2022, B paid £4,818 (excluding VAT) for the banks legal fees;
on 15 March 2023, the partners paid £3,993 (excluding VAT) for the banks legal 
fees; and
the costs to B and the partners for their own legal fees was around £3,000, paid 
entirely by B.
On the basis of the evidence available, I believe that 50% of these costs should be repaid. 
Therefore, Bank of Scotland should pay B £3,909 (50% x (4,818 + 3,000)) and should pay 
the partners £1,997 (50% x 3,993). 
In addition, Bank of Scotland should add interest at 8% simple per annum to these amounts 
from the respective dates of payment of these fees (as set out above), until the date of 
payment.
Solicitors fees
B says that it believes the banks solicitors charged excessive fees and that the bank failed 
in its duty to B to ensure the fees were fair and reasonable. 
In March 2022, the bank gave B a written estimate of its legal fees at £6,500 (excluding 
VAT), consistent with an earlier phone call in February. As set out above, the final total cost 
was almost £9,000 (excluding VAT).
B also says that its own fees were unnecessarily inflated by the bank insisting on there being 
two local solicitors involved to explain the documents and witness the signatures.
Having reviewed the information available and taken into account the delay in selling W 
which caused some additional work to be required, it is not clear to me that the fees charged 
by the banks solicitors were excessive  or, therefore, that the bank failed in its duty to B to 
ensure the fees remained reasonable. 
Similarly, while I acknowledge the additional legal costs B incurred due to the requirements 
imposed by the bank (or its solicitors), I have not seen evidence to demonstrate that these 
requirements were unreasonable.
B has also complained that the first payment it made of the banks solicitors fees, in 
November 2022, was debited from its account without notice. This was despite Bs solicitors 
holding at the time sufficient funds from B to pay this cost. The bank did acknowledge to B 
that this shouldnt have happened but has later suggested to us that B should have been 
aware that the payment would be taken in this way. 
In my view, it is not clear that B suffered any material harm from this misunderstanding. 
Therefore, while I acknowledge that it was another point of friction between B and the bank in a process which was already subject to some disagreement, it is not something on which I 
require further action. 
Requests for information
On several occasions B asked for:
An explanation of why the bank was requiring the changes to the security on the 
partners loans and Bs overdraft. 
A breakdown of the fees charged by the banks solicitors. 
On the first question, the bank explained to B that the sale of W reduced its security on the 
partners loans and Bs overdraft, which warranted the bank to review its position. It said that 
it was the banks commercial decision to determine what security it required.
While this explanation provides little detail, I would not reasonably expect the bank to set out 
to B how it had reached its commercial decision, which would have been based on its own 
risk framework. Therefore, while I acknowledge B would have found this limited explanation 
frustrating, I do not think the bank did anything wrong in the level of detail it provided.
I note that, in reaching my finding above, I have commented that the bank has not provided 
me with a detailed explanation of its rationale for requiring its new security arrangements, 
which supports my view that I am not persuaded it conducted a fair process to determine 
those new arrangements. However, this is not to say that the bank had a duty to provide that 
level of explanation to B, given the explanation may be commercially sensitive to the bank.
On the second question, the bank twice provided B with an estimate of its solicitors fees 
with an outline of the tasks its solicitors had been mandated to complete, but not with any 
detailed breakdown of their time.
Again, while I acknowledge that B wanted far more detailed information, ideally in an 
itemised bill, I dont think this is something the bank could reasonably be expected to 
provide. Although B was liable for the cost of the fees, the banks solicitors were instructed 
by and supervised by the bank. Therefore, and in the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think I could reasonably require the bank to share any detailed itemised billing from its 
solicitors with B.
Therefore, on both these matters, I do not require the bank to take any further action.
Inconvenience 
Given my finding above that it is not clear that Bank of Scotland assessed fairly and 
reasonably the appropriate level of security for both the partners outstanding loan and Bs 
overdraft, I have also considered the inconvenience caused to B and the partners. 
I have not seen any evidence that there was inconvenience directly to the partners or to the 
guarantors. However, it is clear that B incurred substantial time and effort through the 
process of releasing the charge on W and establishing the new security arrangements. 
It is impossible to determine what time and cost could have been saved had the bank acted 
more reasonably, and I also note that our service does not award compensation for 
inconvenience on the basis of costing the time spent. 
Overall, in my view, Bank of Scotland should pay B £500 for the inconvenience caused.
Fair and reasonable assessmentI acknowledge that there are elements of this decision with which B and the partners 
disagree. Bank of Scotland has also expressed its disagreement with my concerns about its 
assessment of the security required, the solicitor costs incurred by B, and the inconvenience 
to B. However, my role is to consider all the circumstances of a case and impartially to reach 
what I believe to be a fair and reasonable resolution to the dispute. For the reasons set out 
above, I believe this decision achieves that outcome.
My final decision
With regard to this complaint from the partners, I uphold it in part and require Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mr B, Mr C and Mr C together £1,997, plus interest at 8% simple per 
annum from 15 March 2023 until the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mr C and Mr 
C to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman