DRN-2868799
The complaint
Ms M has complained that BUPA Insurance Services Limited (BUPA) didnt provide her 
with clear information about her policy.
  
What happened
Ms M had a private medical insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by BUPA. 
She had treatment in 2019 but then left her employment and so her cover ended. Ms M took 
out a personal policy with continuation of cover in 2020. 
Ms M has complained that BUPA previously told her she would be covered for follow up 
surgery for up to a year. But wasnt told she would have to have a policy in place to have 
that treatment. When she bought the personal policy, she wasnt told about 40% co-pay, 
where Ms M would need to pay 40% of costs if she wanted to use a specific consultant in a 
hospital outside of her hospital list. 
Ms M complained to BUPA who didnt uphold her complaint. It said the sales process was 
clear. And so Ms M referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had acted fairly and found 
Ms M wouldnt have bought the policy had she been given clear information and 
recommended that BUPA refund Ms Ms premiums with simple interest.
BUPA disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The 40% co-pay only exists if the customer chooses to go outside of their hospital list 
and this is explained at the point of sale.
Ms M could have seen her consultant and it was just the hospital related fees which 
would be the subject of co-pay.
BUPA dont offer cover for appointments outside the customers hospital list unless 
there is a clinical reason and so its not something that is usually discussed.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must provide clear and not misleading information 
so that Ms M can make an informed decision when deciding whether to buy a policy. 
Key facts
In September 2019, Ms M spoke to BUPA and asked whether she would get follow 
up treatment as the policy only provided follow up cover for 12 months. She was told 
that would be fine as the follow up was part of the original plan. BUPA has said this 
advice was given in good faith on the basis that the policy would still be active and 
there was no question of the policy lapsing.
In October 2019, Ms M spoke to BUPA and it confirmed consultations were only 
covered until the end of the policy year.
The policy confirms treatment wont be paid for, including anything which has been 
pre-authorised, which takes place after the cover ends. 
Ms Ms company policy lapsed in November 2019. 
In February 2020, Ms M called BUPA and took out a personal policy with 
continuation of cover which covered her previous conditions and she opted for an 
excess of £2,000 per year. 
During the call in February 2020, BUPA discussed Ms Ms hospital list options and 
she confirmed the hospital and consultant she wished to see. BUPA explained they 
were on the most expensive list and so Ms M chose the essentials list instead. 
The policy lapsed in May 2020 and Ms M called again in August 2020 to reinstate the 
policy. During the reinstatement call, Ms M said she needed to have her follow up 
surgery which she said she was promised was already covered under the old policy. 
She said she wanted to see a specific consultant and asked whether she would be 
able to see him. She said she would only reinstate the policy if she could see her 
consultant and BUPA confirmed that she could see her consultant as he was 
recognised by BUPA. 
BUPA explained that Ms M would need to pay the £2,000 excess and she said she 
knew this.
Ms M called BUPA again a couple of days later for authorisation to see her 
consultant and was told she would have to pay 40% of any costs. She said this was 
the first time she had heard about this. 
Ive considered what BUPA has said in response to the investigators opinion as set out 
above. Ive also listened to the sales calls in February 2020 and the reinstatement call in 
August 2020 and BUPA did not explain or mention the 40% co-pay to Ms M. Ms M did 
explain that she wanted to see the consultant at the specific hospital she had used 
previously and so although this isnt usually discussed, in Ms Ms specific case, it should 
have been clarified. The restrictions and alternatives werent suitable for Ms M as she was 
certain about who she wanted to see and where.
Having considered the above, its clear that Ms M was under the impression that she could 
have follow up surgery with her consultant up to one year after her original surgery. I can see 
why Ms M thought this but I think it was clear enough that she would need to have a policy in 
place to be eligible for the follow up surgery. Having said that, even if BUPA had made this 
clear to Ms M, it also needed to make clear that any further treatment would be subject to 
the terms and conditions of the new policy which included the £2,000 excess and the 40% 
co-pay for any treatment which was outside of her hospital list. This was a significant 
limitation in cover. Had BUPA made this clear, I dont think Ms M would have taken out the 
policy or opted for the more expensive hospital list as she had already said that wasnt 
suitable for her.
In summary, I think BUPA should have highlighted the 40% co-pay to Ms M in the original 
call in February 2020 as she had specified a consultant and hospital which wasnt on the 
essentials list. Ms M further specifically asked BUPA whether she could see her consultant 
when she called to reinstate the policy in August 2020 and was told that she could see the 
consultant but would have to pay £2,000 excess. Ms M said she would only reinstate the 
policy if she could see her consultant. BUPA should have gone further to explain that she would also have to pay the 40% co-pay as she specified the hospital she wanted to see the 
consultant at and had BUPA done this, Ms M would not have reinstated the policy. 
As I dont think Ms M would have taken the policy if she was given clear information over the 
phone, BUPA should refund all premiums Ms M has paid for her personal policy with 8% 
simple interest from the date she made each payment to the date of settlement. Bupa has 
confirmed Ms M made two claims for physiotherapy in 2020 amounting to £105. This will 
need to be deducted from any refund due. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct BUPA Insurance Services 
Limited to refund Ms Ms premiums with 8% simple interest, as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman