DRN-3816401
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr J complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled their travel 
insurance claim. My references to IPA include its emergency assistance agent.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr J had booked a trip abroad with their two children from 5 to 15 August 2021. 
The trip was covered by a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by IPA.
Unfortunately, Mrs B tested positive for covid-19 on their arrival abroad. On 6 August 2021 
the relevant government issued Mrs B with a notice of isolation/quarantine for herself and 
family which lasted for the rest of the trip.
Mrs B and Mr J had arranged to stay with friends for their trip. Mrs B says she told IPA she 
needed to move urgently from her friends as one had health issues which made her very 
vulnerable to covid-19. IPA told her to find alternative accommodation and the local 
government provided details of a hotel which would accept someone who was covid-19 
positive. But Mrs B and Mr J were concerned that hotel had no garden for their young 
children. They found a villa with a garden to rent and on or around 10 August they contacted 
IPA to authorise their claim for the villa costs.
Initially IPA wouldnt pay for the claim for the villa as it was more expensive than the hotel 
proposed by the government. When Mrs B and Mr J provided a letter from a nurse at the 
office of the chief medical officer (CMO) saying the proposed hotel wasnt suitable for the 
children due to the lack of outside space IPA approved the claim for the villa. But IPA said 
payment for the villa couldnt be made as the third party provider it used to pay 
accommodation providers wasnt able to pay with a credit card and the payment process it 
used wasnt accepted by Airbnb. On or about 14 August Mrs B, Mr J and their children 
quarantined in the hotel proposed by the government.
Mrs B and Mr J complained to IPA that it didnt pay their claim for the villa, it had given 
wrong information about the villa booking and they had asked for a manager at IPA to call 
them back which didnt happen.
IPA accepted it had provided wrong information by confirming it would authorise the claim for 
the villa before first confirming with the third party handling payments that it could make 
payment to the provider. IPA also accepted Mrs B and Mr J had asked several times for one 
of its managers to call back which hadnt happened. It said it would feedback to its call 
handler about the 15 August call with Mrs B. IPA didnt accept it was responsible for the 
delay in Mrs B and her family moving to the other accommodation. IPA offered Mrs B and 
Mr J £75 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Mrs B and Mr J complained to us. They said:
It took them over 70 contacts with IPA to be moved and they and the local 
government had to find the alternative accommodation.
IPAs failure to move them to different accommodation meant they had to stay with 
someone highly vulnerable. The delay in moving caused stress and risk to the friends 
they were staying with.
They had to take unsuitable alternative accommodation. IPA had said the villa was 
too expensive but it now said there was a problem with payment although the villa 
owner told them IPA could have paid by credit card.
IPAs service was very poor including one of its call handlers telling Mrs B that before 
she travelled she should have considered what would happen if she caught covid-19 
when abroad and hung up on her.
Mrs B and Mr J want IPA to refund their parking charges, taxi charges, mobile bill 
costs and policy premium. They also want an excess refund as they say IPA charged 
an excess for all the family despite the policy saying it was capped.
Our investigator said IPA had acted fairly in relation to the accommodation and 
compensation but didnt address the other issues.
Mrs B and Mr J disagree and wants an ombudsmans decision. They added:
IPA was wrong to say the problem for payment for the villa was due to having to pay 
an individual as payment would have been by credit card to the Airbnb website. They 
think the villa owner mentioned that the villa payment could have been made to two 
other companies but IPA never suggested that happen.
They believe IPA procrastinated to run down the clock to get towards the end of 
their holiday to save costs and IPA should have moved them to the villa on 
10 August.
IPAs call handler on the 14 August call with Mrs B had been very rude to her, which 
included saying the advice from the nurse wasnt essential and they should stay at 
the hotel proposed by the government on a take it or leave it basis. Mrs B said 
although IPA had lost the call recording she remembers the call clearly as she was 
angry IPA was putting cost ahead of her childrens health.
They wanted me to listen to the calls with IPA that hadnt been lost.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked IPA to send us the recordings of the calls 
between Mrs B, Mr J and IPA about the claim and if recordings weren't available to provide 
call notes. IPA didnt respond.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I made a 
provisional decision as I considered matters Mrs B and Mr J raised in their complaint to us 
that our investigator hadnt respond to. I said:
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say IPA must handle claims promptly 
and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im intending to find that IPA acted 
fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mrs B and Mr Js contract of insurance with 
IPA and I need to consider what their policy says about their cover.
The policy says under the emergency medical and other expenses section that if a listed 
insured event occurs IPA will:
pay you up to £20,000,000 for the following expenses which are medically necessary 
to treat a medical emergency  during a trip  as a result of you suffering illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine
4. Reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to 
the standard of your original booking (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed 
and breakfast, self catering or room only), if it is medically necessary for you to stay 
beyond your scheduled return date.
The policy also says under the curtailment section that IPA will pay:
Up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of 
any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed before 
completion as a result of any of the following events
2. Compulsory quarantine whilst at your destination.
I cant see that the policy terms provide cover for additional accommodation costs during the 
original holiday period. So I think IPA acted outside the strict policy terms and fairly and 
reasonably in agreeing to cover Mrs B and Mr J additional costs for the original holiday 
period. I note Mrs B, Mr J and their children were staying with friends so had no pre-
contracted accommodation costs.
Even if I thought IPA should have offered to find Mrs B and Mr J alternative accommodation 
I dont think it would have given them more choice of accommodation. The letter from the 
nurse contact tracer from the office of the CMO says they contacted over 100 Airbnbs self-
catering apartments and hotels and only one hotel offered accommodation. So I think its 
more likely than not that if IPA had searched for accommodation it would have found the 
same hotel as the only one that would accept the family. And even if IPA had been able to 
find the hotel sooner than the local government found it Mrs B and Mr J didnt want to move 
the family there as they didnt think the hotel suitable for their children.
Mrs B and Mr J managed to find a villa with garden that would accept the family. When they 
asked IPA to approve the claim for the villa cost on 10 August I think IPAs initial decline of 
the claim was reasonable. The villa was more expensive than the hotel option and there was 
no reason for it to consider the hotel was inappropriate.
The letter from the nurse at the office of the CMO says the hotel wasnt appropriate for the 
childrens wellbeing due to the lack of outside space. IPA then agreed to pay the villa costs. 
Mrs B says IPA agreed on 11 August so there was no unreasonable delay in IPAs decision.
The problem was the third party which IPA used to pay for accommodation declined to 
complete the payment due to not having appropriate systems to pay. IPA told us that the 
third party was unable to make a payment to the villa owner as an individual and the 
payment process the third party used wasnt accepted with Airbnb.
I note all Mrs B and Mr J say about how they believe IPA had different ways it could have 
paid for the villa. But IPA said they cant provide us with data from the third party or Airbnb 
as it doesnt own the data or have access to, or permission to share, the data. The third 
party has a right to set out their own terms of business, which is very unlikely to be 
something IPA could alter. I havent seen any evidence which supports Mrs B and Mr Js 
suggestion that IPA could have paid the villa costs but chose not to because it wanted to 
save costs.
What IPA did wrong, which it accepts, is telling Mrs B and Mr J that it approved their claim 
for the villa without having first checked that the third party would be able to make the payment. I appreciate that was disappointing for Mrs B and Mr J and they ended up in the 
hotel they didnt want to be in. But IPA wasnt responsible for the lack of accommodation 
options and I think IPA made reasonable attempts to accommodate the needs of Mrs B and 
Mr J.
Mrs B and Mr Js friend, who was vulnerable to covid-19, was very worried about catching 
the virus from Mrs B. But as I think IPA acted reasonably, as detailed above, theres no basis 
for me to award any compensation. And even if I thought IPA had acted unreasonably the 
rules we operate under say the friend isnt an eligible complainant so I couldnt say IPA had 
to pay compensation to the friend for her distress and inconvenience.
As to IPAs general service IPA accepts it didnt arrange the manager call back that Mrs B 
and Mr J asked for. Mrs Bs referred to IPAs call handler talking to her inappropriately in a 
call on 15 August, IPAs final response letter refers to a call on 14 August. I understand 
thats the same call. The call recording, or IPA notes of the call, arent available for me to 
listen to/read. IPAs final response letter says that having spoken to Mrs B about the call it 
would feedback to the call hander, it wasnt its intention to cause distress and apologised for 
the inconvenience caused. Its not clear whether IPA was able to listen to the call recording 
or whether it was responding to Mrs Bs concerns. But overall I think IPAs offer of £75 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and apology was sufficient.
Mrs B and Mr J want IPA to pay their parking charges, taxi charges and mobile bill costs.
The policy says IPA wont pay for:
7. Any claims arising directly or indirectly for:
a. Costs of telephone calls, other than:
i. Calls to the Emergency Assistance Service notifying and dealing with the 
problem for which you are able to provide receipts or other reasonable evidence 
to show the cost of the calls and the numbers you telephoned.
ii. Any costs incurred by you when you receive calls on your mobile phone from 
the Emergency Assistance Service for which you are able to provide receipts or 
other reasonable evidence to show the cost of the calls.
b. The cost of taxi fares other than for your travel to or from hospital relating to your 
admission, discharge or attendance for outpatient treatment or appointments or for 
collection of medication prescribed for you by the hospital.
So mobile phone costs to and from IPAs Emergency Assistance Service are covered, 
subject to be providing evidence of the cost. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs B and Mr J have 
made a claim for the mobile costs and/or parking costs. If they havent done so they will 
need to make a claim for IPA to assess. If they have claimed for those costs Ive seen no 
evidence that they complained to IPA about the claim outcome or that IPA issued a final 
response letter on that matter. So Mrs B and Mr J would need to complain first to IPA on that 
matter.
The above policy terms say taxi costs are covered in certain circumstances. Ive seen a final 
settlement letter saying IPA paid £194.82 in taxi costs, which on the information I have was 
fair and reasonable.
Mrs B and Mr J also say they want IPA to refund the additional excess as the policy says the 
excess is capped. The policy wording says under the emergency medical and other 
expenses section:What is not covered
The first £50 of each and every claim, per incident claimed for, under this section by 
each insured person but limited to £100 in all if family cover or single parent cover 
applies.
I think Mrs and Mr J and their family meet the policy definition of family cover. So a 
maximum of £100 excess should apply for claims under the emergency medical and other 
expenses section of the policy. IPA could apply the excess per person for claims under other 
policy sections.
IPAs settlement letter for taxi costs show IPA didnt charge any excess. From the evidence 
Ive seen there isnt an excess that IPA needs to refund.
Mrs B and Mr J also asked for a refund of the policy premium. IPA can charge a premium in 
return for providing insurance cover, which its done. In this case Mrs B and Mr J have made 
a successful claim on the policy but even if they hadnt theres no basis for me to say IPA
must give a premium refund.
Responses to my provisional decision
IPA accepted my provisional decision, Mrs B and Mr J didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IPA accepted, and Mrs B and Mr J didnt respond to, my provisional decision Ive no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these 
findings I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman