DRN-2636354
The complaint
Miss T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
Miss T applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. On her application she said she was 
employed and earning £30,000 per annum with £427.25 monthly disposable income. 
Barclaycard accepted her application and gave her a credit limit of £400. 
Miss T complained to Barclaycard as she said that they shouldnt have allowed her to open 
an account as she had previously missed payments elsewhere and defaulted on an account. 
She asked for a refund of all the fees and interest shed paid and for negative data removed 
from her credit file.
Barclaycard did not uphold Miss Ts complaint. They said they had followed their lending 
criteria and explained they looked at information she input on her application, external data 
from Credit Reference Agencies and looked at an industry wide picture of Miss Ts finances 
as a whole. 
Barclaycard said that although they saw missed payments on her credit file previously, she 
was up to date on her payments and the default was five years prior to the application. They 
explained Miss T had no payday loans showing in her data at the time of application. As a 
gesture of goodwill Barclaycard said they refunded three months of interest and fees to her 
account, totalling £31.95.
Miss T wasnt satisfied with the outcome so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold her complaint. He said while there were active accounts at the 
time Miss T applied for the Barclaycard, the monthly payments to these accounts were made 
on time and none of the accounts were in arrears. He also noted that the default was settled 
and had a zero balance. He added that Barclaycard had carried out sufficient and 
proportionate checks given the amount she was borrowing. Barclaycard couldve provided 
her with a much higher credit limit but kept the credit limit at £400 without increasing it. The 
investigator also provided a telephone number for a debt management charity if she was 
struggling with payments.
Miss T asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said she wasnt 
working at the time of the application as she had lost her job and provided her bank 
statements to show her salaried income stopped approximately six months before applying 
for the Barclaycard. She said that the credits going into her bank account were from her 
friends and family and she was desperate which is why she applied for the Barclaycard so 
she could try and get on top of some of her bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A business like Barclaycard is entitled to decide who to lend to and, if its willing to lend, how 
much and on what terms. What they need to have done before lending to Miss T, is to have 
made reasonable and proportionate checks to see whether the credit card was affordable for 
her.
Barclaycard have provided me the application details. Miss T had said she was working with 
an annual income of £30,000 and had disposable monthly income of £427.25. Barclaycard 
say they considered this information alongside credit checks and external data to consider 
whether she could afford the payments on the Barclaycard. Having made these checks they 
were satisfied Miss T could afford the limit on the card even if she previously had issues with 
other credit agreements. 
Ive thought about what Miss T has said about her not working at the time of her applying for 
the Barclaycard and how the payments that credited her bank account was from friends and 
family. It wouldnt be enough for Barclaycard to rely on a statement of income from Miss T in 
assessing her affordability, so Ive looked at the checks theyve done in more detail to see if 
they were reasonable and proportionate. 
Barclaycard said that theyd reached an agreement with a credit reference agency to help 
validate customers income using their bank accounts and lending commitments which would 
provide a score to Barclaycard. The score provided is based on the information they hold
and the salary information provided. They used this information as part of an overall view of 
how Miss T would be able to manage the Barclaycard account and as the score was within 
the threshold they allow, the application was approved. Ive considered that Barclaycard 
have also said that they couldve gave Miss T a much higher credit limit but they gave her a 
low credit limit of £400 which they never increased. Im persuaded that this is evidence of 
Barclaycards checks being reasonable and proportionate and Ill explain why.
I dont think that Barclaycard have done anything wrong in how they came to that decision - 
as they relied on the information which Miss T provided, such as occupation and salary. So if 
Miss T wasnt working at the time she applied for the credit card, I cant see that Barclaycard 
could have been aware of this unless she told them this was the case. But I cant see that 
she did. By seeing that she was making payments on other accounts it would have looked to 
Barclaycard that she would be able to manage the small limit on the card.
Barclaycard have also explained that they were aware of the late payments and a previous 
default in Miss Ts name. But they said that because there were no arrears at the time of the 
application and the default was five years ago and had been settled with a zero balance at 
the time of the application being made, this wasnt a reason for them to automatically decline 
the application. Theyve also said they may be able to accept applicants who have had poor 
credit to help people build their credit score. 
Barclaycard also documented in their final response letter to Miss T that they refunded three 
months of interest and charges which totalled £31.95 and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances  where they look to have been correctly applied. So it follows that I wont be 
asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman