DRN-3152810
The complaint
Mr K complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with MBFS. 
Mr K voluntary terminated the agreement in November 2020. The car was inspected and 
collected. Following this, MBFS asked Mr K to pay charges for damage.
Mr K disputed the charges. He said the inspection agent had told him that the scuffs on the 
wheel and the peeling lacquer was wear and tear and that there wouldnt be any further 
charges. He said hed been charged for missing documents even though he had handed 
these to the collection agent, and hed been charged for a tyre seal (can of foam) which 
wasnt mentioned to him at the inspection, nor was it in the vehicle returns standards.
Mr K complained to MBFS. He asked for the car to be returned to him so that he could 
resolve the issues. In response, MBFS said the charges had been applied correctly. It also 
said that Mr K had been provided with a copy of the vehicle returns standards prior to the 
collection date which had given him the opportunity to arrange any repairs.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the damage identified on the 
inspection report went beyond wear and tear, and said he wasnt persuaded that the missing 
tyre seal and documentation was provided to the collection agent.
Mr K didnt agree. He said hed been told by the inspector that the only likely charges would 
be for the damage to the wheels. He said if hed been asked for the tyre seal, he wouldve 
provided it because it was in his garage. He said hed given the logbook and service records 
to the collection agent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds acceptable wear and tear, or missing items, 
are the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered as acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The report identifies rim damage to 
the RHF and RHR alloys. The BVLRA guidelines say that scuffs up to 50mm of the total 
circumference of the rim are acceptable. The vehicle returns standards say that scuffs, chips 
and scratches up to 25mm are acceptable. Looking at the photos, I can see that the rim 
damage is more than 50mm in total, so Im satisfied that this exceeds the permitted damage 
as set out in the guidelines. Based on this, I think the charges have been applied correctly.
Ive looked at the photos provided by Mr K. These arent quite as high quality, close up 
pictures as those within the inspection report. However, I can still see that there is rim 
damage from Mr Ks photos. So, I think these photos support my conclusions that the rim 
damage was present at the time of the inspection, and that the damage exceeds acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about the tyre seal and the vehicle documents. In 
relation to the tyre seal, Mr K has said that this was in his garage at the time of the 
inspection, and that he wouldve handed it to the inspector if hed been asked for it. The 
vehicle returns standards say that everything supplied with the car must be returned. Mr K 
doesnt dispute that the tyre seal was supplied with the car. Based on this, Im satisfied that 
the tyre seal should have been returned with the car and because it wasnt, Im unable to say 
that the charge for this missing item is unfair.
In relation to the vehicle logbook and other documents, Mr K has said that he gave these to 
the inspector before he took the car away. MBFS has said that it has made enquires and 
that the inspector denies this. The vehicle returns standards state that the car should be 
returned with all documents. 
Because Mr K and the inspector/MBFS disagree about whether the documents were 
provided, and because I cant be certain of  exactly what happened where both parties have 
a different version of events, I have to look at all of the available evidence to decide whats 
most likely to have happened. The inspection report always includes a photo of the vehicle 
documents if the documents are present. In this case, I havent seen a picture of the 
documents. Further, the report says that the documents are missing. Based on this, I think 
its more likely than not that the inspector didnt have the documents when he carried out the 
inspection. Theres no evidence  to suggest that the inspector was handed the documents as 
he drove away  if he had been, I think its likely that he would have amended the report to 
state that the documents had been returned with the car.
Mr K has said that he wants to know whether MBFS approached DVLA for new documents 
for the car. This isnt something that MBFS need to do when a car is being sold at auction. 
MBFS hasnt provided any other information about this for me to comment on.
I understand that Mr K is unhappy because he was led to believe that there wouldnt be any 
charges. However, I cant be certain of exactly what was said by the inspector, and the 
report and photos clearly show chargeable damage, so I think its unlikely that the inspector 
would have said this.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, Im unable to say that the charges have 
been applied unfairly. So, I wont be asking MBFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman