DRN-2313333
The complaint
Ms B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside her credit card. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2007. PPI was added to Ms Bs 
account some time after she took out her HSBC credit card. Our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms B case. Im going to uphold Ms Bs complaint 
because I dont think HSBC gave her clear enough information about the policy. The policy 
terms and conditions made it clear that if Ms B retired before the age of 65 and did not 
intend to actively seek further work, she would no longer be eligible for unemployment, 
accident and sickness benefit. I havent seen enough to say this information was made clear 
to Ms B. Ms B was nearly 59 when she bought the policy and nearing state retirement age. 
So, it was possible she wouldve wanted to apply for her state pension as soon as she was 
able to. Its also possible that, had Ms B lost her job after she turned 60, she might have 
looked to her state pension for financial support and this couldve affected her ability to make 
a successful claim for unemployment benefit if she couldnt provide evidence of actively 
seeking employment. I think this wouldve mattered to Ms B, as it wouldve had the effect of 
reducing the cover available to her under the policy. And I dont think she wouldve thought 
the cover was worth paying for when she may only able to use it for a relatively short period 
of time. 
Had HSBC given Ms B clear enough information about the policy, I dont think she wouldve 
bought it. As a result, I think Ms B has lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. 
I have thought about what HSBC has said including that the policy wouldve been useful for 
her in the period up to retirement as she didnt have any other cover. But, for the reasons 
Ive explained, this doesnt change my view.
Putting things right
HSBC should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and: 
A. HSBC should find out how much Ms B would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as 
any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. HSBC should then refund the difference between what Ms B owes and what 
she would have owed. If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.. 
B. If  when HSBC works out what Ms B wouldve owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms 
B wouldve owed HSBC something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 
15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.. 
C. HSBC should tell Ms B what its done to work out A and B. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman