DRN-3244892
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible 
for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Ms claim and complaint is a hatchback car first registered in 2008. 
For the year from February 2020, Mr M had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
under which UKI was responsible for dealing with claims. By early 2021, the car had a 
recoded mileage of under 50,000.
In late January 2021, Mr M reported that a third party had hit the car, damaging it and 
causing Mr M injury. He made a claim to UKI and it said the car was a total loss. UKI said 
the pre-accident value of the car had been £3,039.00. Mr M complained to UKI that the car 
had been worth more.
By a final response dated 9 February 2021, UKI turned down the complaint. Mr M brought 
his complaint to us on 5 August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI 
offered a fair valuation, in line with the trade guides.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The value given for his car will not allow him to purchase a replacement of similar 
quality and mileage. 
The trade guides arent accurate for his car as it will be an outlier in the data set due 
to the low mileage.
The accident left him unable to drive. He will be replacing his car when he is able to 
drive again.
As someone with Autism, hes not comfortable with car auctions. He only has access 
to private ads & dealerships.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurers to assess market values of vehicles by 
reference to the trade guides. The trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research 
of likely selling prices. The guides take into account the make, model, age, specification, 
mileage and condition of each vehicle.
We expect insurers to use the retail or dealer valuations from the trade guides, not the trade 
or auction valuations.
The valuation will be at around the date of the accident or loss. And valuations may be 
different at other dates.
We usually place less weight on advertisements as they contain asking prices that are often 
negotiated downwards. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the examples Mr M has sent us. They 
are not enough to persuade me that the trade guides are unreliable for a car like his.
The trade guides contain valuations for a vehicle like Mr Ms (including its low mileage), at 
the time of the accident as follows:
Glasss £2,730.00
Cazana £2,955.00
CAP £3,225.00
I consider that to be a narrow range of figures. UKIs valuation of £3,039.00 was within that 
range. So I dont find that UKI treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct UKI to increase its valuation or to pay Mr M any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman