DRN-2542115
The complaint
Mr S complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly refused a theft claim he made on his 
motorhome insurance policy.
Mr S has been represented during the claim and for this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the representatives actions as being those of Mr S.
 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr S entered into an agreement with a dealer for it to sell his motorhome. Ive 
referred to the dealer as A. The following month A sold the motorhome. But it didnt provide 
Mr S with any of the proceeds. A number of other motorhome owners had a similar 
experience with A. Its now gone out of business. Its director is the subject of a police 
investigation and criminal prosecution.
 
Mr S claimed for the theft of the motorhome on his AXA motorhome insurance policy. The 
claim was refused. AXA initially referred to a theft by deception exclusion to do so. After 
Mr S complained AXA gave additional reasons for declining the claim. It said the motorhome 
hadnt been stolen. Instead the proceeds of the sale had been  but those werent covered 
by the policy. AXA also claimed Mr S policy had expired before the motorhome had been 
sold by A.
Mr S feels AXAs unfairly refused his claim. The policy had three months to run when A sold 
the vehicle. He says there was a theft by appropriation so it was the motorhome that was 
stolen. And he feels it isnt fair for AXA to rely on the deception exclusion. 
Our investigator considered Mr S points. But he didnt agree AXA had unfairly refused the 
claim. Mr S didnt accept that. So the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision. I said I intended to require AXA to reconsider the claim on the basis the 
motorhome was stolen, without reference to the deception exclusion and in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
I asked Mr S and AXA if they would like to provide any further comments or information 
before I issued a final decision. Mr S didnt, but AXA did. Ive responded to its points below. 
As the provisional decision forms part of this final decision Ive included its findings here.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr Ss policy ran from October 2017 until July 2018. Mr S entered into the sales agreement 
in March 2018. The motorhome was sold by A in April 2018. So it seems AXAs wrong when 
it says the policy wasnt in place at the time of the relevant events. 
Mr Ss policy covers the motorhome if its stolen. AXAs position is that it wasnt stolen  
instead the proceeds of the sale were. To support its position its pointed to the lack of police 
intention to recover the motorhome from the end buyer.
But Mr S disagrees. He says the motor home was stolen. It was theft by appropriation  as 
it was sold contrary to his instructions to A. A provided two sale options. He chose its broker 
service. That had a guaranteed return to him of £20,000. He rejected its trader service, with 
a return of £17,000. But A went on to sell the motorhome to a trader for the lower amount. 
Mr S has provided legal arguments and caselaw in support of his theft by appropriation 
position.  
Mr S provided a letter from the prosecution service. It explains criminal proceedings have 
been taken against a director of A. The letter says there is sufficient evidence, in the 
prosecutors opinion, to charge the director of A with theft  it specifically states that includes 
theft of the motorhome itself.  
Theres no definition of stolen or theft in the policy terms. But having considered everything 
provided I think its arguable, in both legal and everyday terms, that there was a theft of the 
motorhome itself. The prosecution service seems to think thats the case. So I think as a fair 
and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint AXA should consider events as the motorhome 
itself being stolen  i.e. consider it as a claim for theft. 
AXAs also referred to an exclusion in the policy to refuse Mr S claim. It says theres no 
cover following Loss of your motorhome by deception of someone who claims to be a buyer 
or agent.
Mr S says its not reasonable for AXA to rely on that exclusion. He points to its reference to 
someone who claims to be an agent. He says there wasnt any claiming with A. Instead, 
he says, it was a long established dealer with a history of acting as a sales agent for its 
customers. Hes provided information to show A had a history of acting as an agent.   
I think Mr S makes a reasonable point. The second part of the exclusion, from deception, 
does narrow its scope. There seems be an intention to require the deception to be 
committed by someone claiming or pretending to be something they arent  if not then 
claims to be wouldnt have been used. 
I havent considered if there was deception. Thats unnecessary as even if there were 
deception, I wouldnt think it fair for AXA to rely on the exclusion. The theft was by an agent 
 not someone who claimed to be one. So for that reason AXA cant fairly rely on the 
deception exclusion to refuse Mr S claim. 
Therefore, I intend to require AXA to reconsider Mr S claim on the basis the motorhome was 
stolen, without reference to the deception exclusion and in line with the remaining policy 
terms.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision AXA said its concerned that I said it cant apply the 
terms and conditions of Mr S policy. It referred to me saying its not reasonable for it to rely 
on the deception exclusion to refuse Mr S claim. AXA feels, as Mr S agreed to the terms 
when taking out the policy, that it can refer to them to refuse claims not covered under the 
policy. 
The relevant rules (FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook) require me to 
determine a complaint by reference to what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In the provisional decision I explained why I didnt think it fair for AXA to 
apply the exclusion to Mr S claim. 
I said I didnt think the exclusion applies to the circumstances of the loss. Unfortunately, AXA 
hasnt engaged with my reasons for coming to that conclusion. It hasnt provided anything to 
change my mind. So, in my opinion, its not fair or reasonable for it to rely on the deception 
exclusion to refuse Mr S claim. 
AXAs also said that there wasnt a theft. It said instead Mr S had entered into an 
agreement with A for it to sell the motorhome. It provided a definition of theft to support its 
position: Theft is the taking of another persons property or services or scrap money without 
that persons permission or consent with the intent to deprive the rightful owner of it..
AXA didnt explain specifically why the circumstances of the loss dont meet its given 
definition of theft. But I think its point is the motorhome wasnt taken by A without Mr S 
consent  as he entered into the agreement, handing over possession voluntarily.
Mr S accepts he handed the motorhome over voluntarily to A, but says it went on to sell it 
contrary to his instructions. He describes it as theft by appropriation. I think hes saying it 
didnt have his consent, in the circumstances, to deprive him, as the rightful owner, of the 
motorhome. 
It seems to me to there can be a later theft of property by someone who originally obtained 
it in an honest way  including where an owner handed it over voluntarily for a certain 
purpose. So I cant say AXAs latest comments have persuaded me there wasnt a theft of 
the motorhome. As I explained in my provisional decision the prosecution service feel there 
was. 
I still think its arguable, in both legal and everyday terms, that there was a theft of the 
motorhome itself. So as a fair and reasonable outcome, in the circumstances of Mr S 
complaint, AXA should consider events as the motorhome itself being stolen  i.e. consider it 
as a claim for theft. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider Mr S claim on 
the basis his motorhome was stolen, without reference to the deception exclusion and in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman