DRN-4001781
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that there remains a balance to be repaid on their Together Personal 
Finance Limited secured loan after its term has come to an end.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs S took out a secured loan  now owned by Together  for approximately 
£28,000 over 183 months, on a capital repayment basis. 
Over the term of the loan Mr and Mrs S didnt always make payments on time and as a 
result, missed payment/arrears fees were charged to the account. In addition, buildings 
insurance costs have also been charged to the account. The fees along with the interest 
generated by them meant that an additional amount built up on the account that wasnt 
repaid by the contractual monthly payments. So, that became repayable at the end of the 
term.
Mr and Mrs S complained to the previous owner of the loan in 2011 about fees charged to 
the account and other issues. In its final response letter dated 6 October 2011, the previous 
owner said it had charged fees in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss loan. 
But, as it had since changed its approach to charging fees, it agreed to refund fees totalling 
£260 and the interest those fees had generated.
Mr and Mrs S complained again in 2022  this time about the remaining balance caused by 
fees charged to their loan account. Together didnt respond within the eight weeks allowed, 
so Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. But, after wed set up Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint, Together gave its final response in a letter dated 13 May 2022. 
In its final response letter Together said it had reviewed the fees charged to the account 
since its letter 6 October 2011. It said it found that all the fees had been charged correctly 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the loan. 
However, it identified that its communication with regard to how those fees and their 
associated interest would need to be repaid was unclear until September 2018 when it 
altered the annual statements it sent to its customers to explain that point. So, it refunded 
interest on fees added to the account for all the time the account was not in arrears  from   
6 October 2011 to September 2018.
Together also noticed that, while it had offered to refund buildings insurance administration 
costs in its final response letter of 6 October 2011, it had not actually done so, due to not 
receiving an acceptance of that offer from Mr and Mrs S. So, it credited those costs to the 
account along with associated interest of £712.44. It also paid Mr and Mrs S £50 for the 
delay in responding to their complaint.
Dissatisfied with Togethers response, Mr and Mrs S asked us to continue our consideration 
of their complaint. Our initial investigator told both parties we can only consider fees charged 
to the account since 19 January 2016. Thats because our rules say a complaint needs to be 
made within six years of the event complained about and within three years of when the 
consumer became aware or ought reasonably to have become aware of a cause to 
complain. Our investigator said Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
fees charged to the loan account because the annual mortgage statements showed the fees.
Our initial investigator identified that only one fee was charged to the account after             
19 January 2016  that was on 19 July 2016. She thought that was charged fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the loan. But she thought Mr and Mrs S would have had 
longer to pay off the fees charged if Together had communicated more clearly about them 
before September 2018. So, she said Together should pay Mr and Mrs S £100 in respect if 
the inconvenience that caused. 
Neither party disputed our investigators findings with regard to our power only to consider 
fees charged after January 2016. But neither party agreed with our investigators findings in 
relation to the award she suggested. Mr and Mrs S said £100 isnt enough  they want the 
outstanding balance written off. Together said there was no justification for the award of 
£100. 
However, our initial investigator left this Service at that time and a new investigator became 
the owner of this case. Mr and Mrs S asked him to reconsider the merits of their complaint. 
He did so and wrote to both parties with his opinion on 27 January 2023. He said he thought 
Togethers removal of interest from the account up to the time it made its communication 
clearer about the balance that may become payable at the end of the mortgage term was 
fair. And that was included in the terms and conditions Mr and Mrs S agreed to. He also said 
Mr and Mrs S didnt make payments to reduce the fees balance after Together explained it 
more clearly in 2018. So, there is nothing to suggest they would have done, had that 
happened earlier. His opinion was Together need not make an additional payment to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. So, their complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to outline my thoughts on the merits of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, Id like to 
cover an issue about our initial investigators application of our rules concerning when        
Mr and Mrs S complained and what that means we can consider  our jurisdiction. I think her 
assessment of when the event complained about occurred and when Mr and Mrs S ought 
reasonably to have become aware she had cause for complaint was correct. 
Together has confirmed that it does not consent to us considering events that happened 
more than six years before the date they complained to Together. That means we dont have 
the power to do so. So, as neither party disagreed with our investigators assessment of 
what events we can look into, Ill outline my thoughts on the merits of Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint since January 2016 now, without commenting further about our jurisdiction.
To decide Mr and Mrs Ss complaint Ive thought about whether the one fee that I can 
consider was charged fairly. And Ive thought about whether its fair that Together asks      
Mr and Mrs S to pay the remaining fees and associated interest that are outstanding at the 
end of their loan term.
The fee charged to Mr and Mrs Ss account in July 2016Ive checked the transaction statements Together has provided and Im satisfied that the £50 
fee charged on 19 July 2016 is the only one charged since January 2016. The transaction 
statements show that fee was charged because of an unpaid direct debit. And the 
statements show that Mr and Mrs Ss account was already one month in arrears when the 
direct debit failed.
The fees chargeable on Mr and Mrs Ss loan account are outlined in Togethers tariff of 
charges, sent to consumers with their annual mortgage statements. Together has provided a 
copy of its Tariff of charges applicable around the time of the fee charged in July 2016. The 
tariff of charges says a fee of £50 per month will be charged where a payment date is 
missed and the account is in arrears by an amount equal or greater than one months 
payment. So, I think Together charged the fee fairly on that occasion. 
The remaining balance at the end of the loan term
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss loan  the loan agreement. Ive 
seen that they do allow Together to charge fees for various different expenses. Theyre 
outlined in the tariff of charges mentioned above. If those fees were not paid by                  
Mr and Mrs S as they arose, its inevitable that they would be added to the overall balance. 
And I think, if the monthly cost to Mr and Mrs S didnt increase, its also inevitable that there 
would be a balance to be repaid at the end of the term.
While its expected that borrowers read the terms and conditions of loan agreements, I 
understand that the details of how fees and associated interest are repaid may have been 
missed by Mr and Mrs S. I think, in recognising that its ongoing communication about that 
could have been clear, Together has also acknowledged that point. 
The notes accompanying the annual loan statement dated 27 September 2016 may have 
alerted Mr and Mrs S that it is likely to take longer and may cost you more to pay off the 
debt under the agreement. But it associated that with paying less than the agreed sum 
rather than that being the effect of the accumulation of fees on the loan account. So, while a 
statement of that time may have alerted Mr and Mrs S to the fact that the loan could run for 
longer than the term on the agreement, it didnt specifically say it could do so in the event of 
fees being charged.
By the time it sent Mr and Mrs Ss statement dated 26 September 2018, Together had added 
a Frequently asked questions page. Two of those questions specifically addressed the 
issue of the repayment of fees charged. One said the following:
Why wont my monthly repayment pay off my loan in time?
This can happen if you are or have been in arrears and/or if charges have been 
added to your account. To make sure your loan is repaid in time, you can either 
increase your monthly instalments or you can make a lump sum payment to clear 
any additional charges or interest.
As Together said in its final response letter dated 13 May 2022, it has clarified that particular 
point in its annual statement communications to customers from 2018. But it recognised that 
Mr and Mrs S may not have understood that before September 2018. So, it refunded the 
interest applied on fees added to their account while they were not in arrears. I dont think it 
needed to do that because it is allowed under the terms and conditions of the loan to charge 
predetermined fees for specific expenses it incurs and charge interest on the outstanding 
balance. But I think its fair and reasonable that it has made the refund Together did on this 
occasion in an effort to resolve Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.Summary
I think Together charged the £50 fee in July 2016 fairly  according to its tariff of charges. 
And I think it has done more than it strictly needed to by refunding interest to Mr and Mrs Ss 
account. I think that refund compensated Mr and Mrs S adequately for Togethers older 
mortgage statements not specifically addressing the issue of how fees charged to the loan 
account could be repaid. So, I dont think Together needs to do any more to resolve           
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Together Personal 
Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman