DRN-3835387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided unsuitable investment advice in 
2000 when it recommended they each invest £7,000 via ISA accounts. At the time, Mrs F 
was also advised to invest £10,000 into a third investment fund (that I will call fund C). 
Mr and Mrs F feel that had they been advised to invest the full amount of their joint 
investment pot (£24,000) into fund C, they would have been considerably better off by 2009 
when they surrendered their ISA investments at a loss.
The investment advice was provided by a different financial business but as Barclays is now 
responsible for the actions of that business, to keep things simpler, I will refer to Barclays 
throughout.  
What happened
During the course of meetings held in May and July 2000, Mr and Mrs F met with Barclays 
financial adviser. They were looking to reinvest the proceeds of a policy that had matured. 
Following discussions with the adviser, Mr and Mrs F were advised to invest a total of 
£24,000 in medium risk products which offered the opportunity of capital growth over the 
medium to long term.
Acting on the advisers recommendations, Mr and Mrs F invested as follows:
Mr F invested £7,000 via an ISA into the Invesco GT European Growth Fund.
Mrs F invested £7,000 via an ISA into the Fidelity International Managed Fund and 
£10,000 in fund C.
In October 2009, Mr F surrendered the Invesco GT European Growth Fund and received 
back £4,794.03 and Mrs F surrendered the Fidelity International Managed Fund and 
received back £5,481.98.
The main thrust of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint to Barclays was that they were sold high risk 
ISAs that resulted in them losing their savings.
In response, Barclays said its adviser had carried out a detailed fact find when he gathered 
information about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances and he had recommended three 
investments that were suitable for their needs. 
In brief summary, Barclays said Mr and Mrs F had previous exposure to investment risk 
having already held various investments and that the ISAs recommended (along with 
fund C) were medium risk funds that were suitable for investors with Mr and Mrs Fs 
investment experience.
Barclays said the adviser wouldve discussed Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to investment risk and 
taken into account their financial situation and investment objectives. It said the adviser 
would have supplied them with a copy of the Key Fund Documents for each product which 
would have set out the associated risk with each investment. 
In support of its view that the adviser had properly taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs needs 
and objectives, Barclays pointed to the fact that they had kept these investments for nine 
years before fully surrendering them.
Barclays acknowledged that Mr and Mrs F had experienced a long delay before receiving its 
response and offered to pay Mr and Mrs F £150 to address any distress or inconvenience 
caused.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with this response so they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator first considered whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction and was 
satisfied, as Barclays had given its consent to us investigating Mr Fs complaint, this was a 
complaint he could look at.
After considering the complaint, based on all the information he had seen, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. He thought that the 
investment advice provided by Barclays wasnt unsuitable based on Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time. His view was that Mr and Mrs F had capacity to invest £7,000 
each in a risk based asset to achieve their investment objectives and all three recommended 
funds met their desired risk appetite.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. Ive set out below some of the main things 
they said in response to the investigators view to give an overview of their concerns.  
The way the investigator presented the case misrepresents our actions and sets the 
scene for unwarranted conclusions  the view includes some downright lies and 
information new to us and is unsupported by evidence.
The two ISAs flopped early on, well before the financial recession in 2007 and then 
gradually and only partially recovered. This recession was irrelevant for the purposes 
of this complaint.
It was only in 2020, as a result of widespread advertising, we learned that people 
who had suffered a loss could be entitled to compensation from Barclays. 
We did not go to seek advice on how best to invest £24,000 so there was no 
question in our minds of seeing our investments as a portfolio. We went to Barclays 
to get two ISAs. So looking at all three funds together as a portfolio to reach a fair 
conclusion, suggests unsound reasoning on the part of the investigator. Having 
settled the ISAs I mentioned that I had another £10,000 looking for an investment  
Barclays suggested fund C.
We thought they would advise us on how best to invest across the whole market. 
Only as a result of pursuing this complaint did we become aware that they were 
simply selling a limited range of investments. This last point was never explained to 
us.
There are factual errors in the investigators view  including figures quoted in 
respect of pensions and savings. The investigator has not accurately set out our 
personal and financial circumstances at the time.
The medium risk description isnt justified - funds such as the ISAs with a narrow 
spread are higher risk. At the time our attitude to risk was that we didnt want to be 
exposed to anything other than low risk.
The notion that we were experienced investors is crediting us with knowledge which 
we just did not have. We had been investing for some years through Barclays 
exclusively buying tax free investments as and when we could.
The only shares we have ever owned are those in a former building society which we 
received when it ceased to be a mutual.Barclays asserts that these ISAs were medium risk but surely to qualify for that 
description they should have had a wider spread - you do not deal with this point at 
all.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive considered everything both sides have provided. 
Its part of my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have 
reached my conclusions. This means I will not necessarily address every one of 
Mr and Mrs Fs concerns on a point by point basis. The ombudsman approach is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable overall. If I dont comment on everything, this is because I dont 
feel there is anything more I can usefully add to what has been said elsewhere already or it 
doesnt make any material difference overall. In this decision, I will deal with all the main 
points that have an impact on the outcome of the complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Im sorry Mr and Mrs F feel our investigator hasnt 
investigated the complaint fairly. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
When thinking about whether Barclays gave Mr and Mrs F suitable investment advice on this 
occasion, keeping in mind that all investment carries some degree of financial risk, Ive 
thought about the following key questions:
Were Mr and Mrs F in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest? 
If so, thinking in particular about the amount invested and the investment risk, was 
the investment advice Barclays provided suitable?
Did the investment reflect Mr and Mrs Fs investment objectives? 
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Fs financial situation when 
Barclays provided investment advice and made these ISA recommendations. 
Theres only limited point of sale information available from 2000  thats unsurprising after 
so long. Ive looked carefully at the point of sale paperwork that Barclays has provided, 
including the Personal Information Questionnaire completed by Barclays financial adviser 
at the time (the fact find). Mr and Mrs F both signed this document so I think its reasonable 
for me to rely on this generally as the most accurate source of information about their 
circumstances at the time. 
Theres no detailed expenditure information. However, theres nothing to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs Fs living costs and other financial needs and requirements werent amply 
covered out of income leaving them with a monthly surplus. 
Together, Mr and Mrs F owned their own home (free from any mortgage) valued at 
£1,000,000 and other properties with a value of £150,000.
They were both in their fifties, in good health with two dependents.Mr F was retired and in receipt of a pension. Mrs F was still earning and also in receipt of a 
pension. They both also had income from their investments giving them a total combined 
monthly income of £5,600.
Their total cash savings were noted as £19,000 (£15,000 National Savings and around 
£4,000 cash). They had existing investments as follows:
 
A TESSA each with a combined value of around £15,500
approximately £27,000 in ISAs/PEPS 
£26,000 in investment bonds
around £5,597 in shares
Looking at the size of the assets they held, I think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs F had 
sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb some element of loss in pursuit of capital 
growth. In other words, they were able to take some element of risk when investing. I also 
consider that, from what I've seen, Mr and Mrs F were willing to each invest £7,000 as part 
of their joint overall investment plans as this reflected their investment objectives at the time. 
Mr and Mrs F told the adviser they were looking for capital growth in a tax efficient manner to 
ensure the spending power of their money was preserved. From the point of sale paperwork 
Barclays has provided, it looks like Mr and Mrs F described having a medium risk appetite.
I've thought carefully about this as Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk is central to their complaint. 
Although Mr F has said they only wanted low risk investment, it seems likely to me that 
Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk was explored as there are annotations on the fact find which 
suggest this was discussed. Mr and Mrs F would have been able to see a diagram showing 
risk levels ranging from High Risk through Medium Risk to Low Risk and, at the lowest 
level, Very Low Risk. A brief description of each risk level is set out. 
Medium Risk is described as follows:
Invest tor longer term. Investment value will fluctuate with changing market conditions, with 
some risk to capital. 
In the Medium Risk part of the diagram, the adviser has recorded £24,000 and noted 
Happy with this concept. 
And next to where it says on the fact find Preferred level of risk the adviser has noted down 
Happy to consider medium risk as previously invested in ISAs/PEPs. 
Where information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must base 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely. 
I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
Given the evidence of the attitude to risk Mr and Mrs F demonstrated to the adviser, I think it 
was reasonable for Barclays to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr and Mrs F. So Ive 
next given careful consideration to whether the ISAs recommended were too risky for 
Mr and Mrs F. 
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that an adviser should 
consider when advising on investments. And I agree that Mr and Mrs Fs investment 
experience didnt appear to be extensive at the time. But the fact alone that someone might 
be a relatively inexperienced investor doesnt automatically mean that they should only ever 
be advised to invest in low risk or no risk investments. That could unfairly deprive a person of investment potential and the opportunity to choose to risk more for the chance of a higher 
gain. The most important consideration is whether Mr and Mrs F were comfortable that the 
risk level of the investment fairly balanced their stated investment objectives against the risk 
they were willing to take with their money. 
The financial report the adviser sent them setting out his investment advice said: 
I have recommended the Invesco GT European Growth fund for your unit trust investment. 
The fund aims to provide above average growth through a portfolio of investments in 
European companies, excluding the UK. This fund is a more speculative investment and as 
such, the performance is likely to be of a volatile nature.
I have recommended Fidelity Managed International Fund for your unit trust investment. 
The fund aims to achieve long term capital growth from a diversified portfolio of 
predominantly equities spread world-wide. The portfolio is arranged broadly in relation to the 
relative size and attractiveness of the various world equity markets. This fund is a more 
speculative investment and as such, the performance is likely to be of a volatile nature.
Although Barclays seems to be saying now that these two funds were medium risk, in the 
absence of more detailed information about the composition of the funds, based on the 
advisers use of the words speculative and volatile at the point of sale, those words 
suggest to me that they were higher risk than that. So I need to consider whether the 
recommendation to invest in them was suitable.
Barclays said: 
You said that you wished to invest £24,000 in medium risk investment and £7,758 in very 
low risk investments. The following recommendations take your ideas into account 
I think that Mr and Mrs F were seeking investments which did not exceed a medium risk. So 
Barclays should only have recommended medium risk investments to Mr and Mrs F. To my 
mind, speculative and volatile funds were greater risk than that. So I am planning on 
upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and telling Barclays to take the following steps to put 
things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs F said they would await my final decision. 
I have heard nothing further from Barclays and the deadline for responses has now passed 
so its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision and 
nothing has happened to change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs F as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not 
been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs F would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs F's circumstances and objectives 
when they invested.
What should Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs F fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs F's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and 
the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additiona
l 
interest
Invesco GT 
European 
Growth Fund 
Fidelity 
Managed 
International 
FundSurrendered
SurrenderedFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
surrender8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs F agree to 
Barclays taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for 
Barclays to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs F that 
they repay to Barclays any amount they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs F wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared 
to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr and Mrs F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Mr and Mrs F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman