DRN-3786503
The complaint
Mr P complains about how esure Insurance Limited has valued his car following a claim on
his car insurance policy, about how it communicated with him during the claim and about
how it took back its courtesy car.
Another company has been involved in the claim but, as esure is responsible for Mr Ps
complaint, Ill mostly referred to esure in this decision.
What happened
Briefly, Mr P was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his car insurance policy.
esure said Mr Ps car was a total loss and valued it at £1,209. esure then made a deduction
of £50 from this amount because the car didnt have a valid MOT at the time of the accident.
Mr P says esures valuation was way under current market value for vehicles with similar
mileage, specification & condition to mine. He says his research showed most
vehicles with good bodywork & service history are advertised from anywhere between
£2,200 and £4,000. And he gave esure half a dozen or so adverts to support his view.
esure told Mr P its approach to car valuations is to compare the selling price of similar cars
in the specialist on-line motor trade guides. esure said it could only get valuations from two
of these guides. So it had taken the average of these two to reach a figure of £1,209, from
which it then deducted £50 for the MOT.
Unhappy with the valuation, Mr P complained to us. He also complained hed had minimal
contact from esure during the claim and his courtesy car had been withdrawn without notice.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ps complaint didnt uphold it. He said esure based its
valuation on the correct motor trade guide evidence. He thought its £50 deduction for the
MOT was reasonable, because Mr Ps policy said esure could reduce his claim if his car
wasnt in a roadworthy condition. Our investigator didnt think thered been any significant
and avoidable delays in how esure dealt with Mr Ps case. He also said, under Mr Ps policy,
esure could withdraw the courtesy car once it declared his car a total loss.
Mr P disagreed. He said the guide prices for his car model were wrong. He said the £50
deduction wasnt fair. He also said esure washed its hands of his claim within seven days 
and his courtesy car was taken away without notice.
In my provisional decision of 5 October 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold parts of 
Mr Ps complaint. Mr P says he doesnt have any further evidence to add to my provisional 
decision. esure hasnt responded to it. So Mr Ps complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold parts of Mr Ps complaint. In my provisional decision, I looked at each of Mr Ps 
complaint points and said as follows:
Valuation
My role isnt to decide the value of Mr Ps car  its to decide if esure was fair and reasonable
in reaching its valuation. This is a subtle distinction but its an important one. And in looking
at whether esure has acted fairly and reasonably, I must bear in mind that valuing a car isnt
an exact science.
Our service has a long-established approach to car valuations in most circumstances. It
looks, as esure says it does, at the valuations given by the specialist on-line motor trade
guides. These are based on the selling price of similar cars, rather than their advertised
price. In the case of Mr Ps car, esure couldnt get valuations from two of the guides due to
the age of the car. But it did get them from two other guides. One valuation was for £1,388
and the other was for £1,031  and it averaged these out to get its valuation of £1,209.
Mr P has always been sceptical about esures lower valuation. His car is over 20 years old
and he says the particular guide in question doesnt value cars this age. Our investigator
also couldnt get a valuation from this guide. So, recently, our investigator asked this guide to
give us a bespoke valuation. It responded saying, as Mr Ps car is not available in our
standard product due to being over 20 years old it could only offer what it called an opinion
only bespoke valuation. It says this gives the car a retail transacted value of £1,850.
I dont know how esure got its valuation of £1,031 (if it can show me how it did, Id like to
know). But from what this guide has said to us recently following its bespoke valuation, I
dont think the valuation esure got from it can be relied on.
That leaves just one valuation from an online specialist guide of £1,388. I dont think one
valuation is enough to rely on to give a fair and reasonable value for Mr Ps car. So, given
the difficulty the guides have in valuing it and its age, I think I must also take into account the
bespoke valuation we got of £1,850.
But, as this guide says, this is an opinion only valuation. The only other evidence on the
possible value of Mr Ps car is the adverts hes sent us. He got these immediately after the
accident. Theyre for cars of a similar specification and similar mileage to Mr Ps car. The
advertised prices ranged from £2,195 to £3,995. By Mr Ps own admission, the latter price is
an outlier, with the others falling within the £2,195 to £2,595 range.
Im conscious these adverts represent advertised, rather than selling prices. But Im also
conscious, as Mr P has said, there was a surge in demand for used cars and a reduced
number of new cars being manufactured at the time of his accident. So the difference
between advertised and selling prices may have been small. I also note Mr P says his car,
with its optional specifications, is quite rare now and is also more desirable than some later
models  and I think thats probably a fair assessment.
As I said at the outset, valuing a car isnt an exact science. But, from what Ive seen so far
and for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded the valuation esure gave Mr P is fair and
reasonable. For me, in the unusual circumstances of this complaint, a fairer and more
reasonable approach would be to take an average of the highest and lowest prices Mr P
gave us (but discounting the outlier)  which would give a value of £2,395  and then
average that out with the bespoke valuation of £1,850. This would give a value of £2,122.50.MOT
Mr P doesnt think its fair esure deducted £50 from its settlement offer because his car didnt
have a valid MOT. He says it had failed its MOT, had been repaired and was about the be
re-tested when the accident happened.
But Mr Ps policy has a condition saying esure can reduce his claim if his car isnt
roadworthy. Mr Ps car didnt have a valid MOT at the time, so I think its fair and reasonable
for esure to make this deduction.
Communication
Mr P is unhappy with how esure communicated with him. He says, among other things,
whenever he phoned esure he was on hold for more than an hour and never got a straight
answer from its call handlers.
I understand this was frustrating for Mr P. But long wait times for calls to be answered by
financial businesses arent that unusual. And since Mr P was disputing the valuation  while
esure was maintaining its position  I dont think its surprising these calls were difficult.
I can see esure gave Mr P a settlement offer on his car within a week. And esure also
updated Mr P on its progress in settling the claim with the third-party insurer.
So, looking at everything overall, I dont think esure did anything substantially wrong here.
Courtesy car
Mr P says the courtesy car esure gave him following the accident was taken away without
notice. He says he shouldve been able to keep it until either he was paid out or was able to
replace his car.
Mr Ps policy says: If we decide that your car is a total loss after providing the courtesy car,
it will be withdrawn. Thats what happened here, so I think esure was entitled to take the car
back.
But I also think esure needed to make it clear to Mr P why this was happening and give him
a reasonable timeframe within which to return the car. Mr P says he got an email from
esures car hire company saying his courtesy car would be taken back on the same date as
the email was sent. He says the email also said:
As your own vehicle was assessed as a Total Loss this timing includes a period of up to 7
days following receipt of the final settlement cheque that you are able to retain the hire
vehicle.
If you have not yet received your settlement payment it is important that you let us know as
quickly as possible so that we can extend your use of the hire vehicle in line with this.
Mr P says he hadnt got a settlement cheque and so shouldve been entitled to keep the
courtesy car. But he says, when he called the car hire company, it told him esure had
terminated the hire. Im not entirely sure when the car was taken back  in his complaint
form, Mr P says it was on the following Monday (the email from esures car hire company
having been sent on the Friday), while more recently hes said it was the following day. In
any case, he says the car was taken back without anyone having made any contact to
arrange collection times/location, which left me stranded at work with no way to get home.The situation here seems to have been a confused one. And I havent seen the
correspondence with esures car hire company about this  apart from the email extract Mr P
has given us  or any details of the calls that took place between it, Mr P or esure.
So further evidence might change my view on this. But based on what Ive seen so far, I
dont think esures car hire company communicated clearly with Mr P about taking the car
back or gave him reasonable notice that this was happening. From what Mr P says, this
caused him distress and inconvenience  it seems he had to make various phone calls and
says he was stranded at work. Because of this, its my intention to direct esure to pay him
£150 in compensation.
esure has said the car hire company is an independent third-party company. But esure
arranged the courtesy car so, for the purposes of this complaint, the car hire company was
esures agent.
As Ive mentioned, Mr P doesnt have anything to add to my provisional decision and esure 
hasnt responded to it. And having looked at everything again, I cant see any reason why I 
should change my provisional findings and conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision of 5 October 2022, which now form part of 
this final decision, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to settle    
Mr Ps claim based on a valuation of £2,122.50 (minus £50 for the MOT), together with 
interest at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of loss to the date of payment.* I also 
direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience its 
handling of the return of the courtesy car caused him.
esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr P the compensation of £150 within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, it must pay interest at the rate of 
8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.*
*If esure Insurance Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman