DRN-3664392
The complaint
Mr M complains that WPS Financial Group Limited (WPS) gave him unsuitable advice in 
November 2017 to transfer out of his final salary British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
self invested personal pension (SIPP).   
What happened
In September 2017 Mr M got a CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) from BSPS. He 
approached WPS for advice as to his options. WPS completed a fact find and an attitude to 
risk (ATR) questionnaire with Mr M on 21 November 2017. On the same date WPS signed a 
Financial Planning Introducer Agreement with another regulated firm who Ill call Firm B. 
WPS didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on defined benefit transfers 
such as Mr Ms but Firm B did. WPS emailed copies of the fact find and ATR questionnaire 
to Firm B. 
Firm B issued a suitability letter to Mr M on 30 November 2017 recommending that he 
transfer to Firm Bs eSIPP and invest in its Growth Portfolio. Mr M accepted the 
recommendation in December 2017 and the transfer went ahead  a CETV of about 
£290,000 was paid. 
In June 2018 Mr M signed a form to transfer future servicing from Firm B to WPS. At the 
same time he completed a fee agreement authorising Firm B to pay WPS ongoing adviser 
charges of 0.5% pa of his fund value. That charge was to replace any existing adviser 
charge and would be deducted from Mr Ms fund. 
A portfolio valuation was produced by WPS in December 2018. And in June 2019 Mr M met 
with WPSs adviser to undertake an annual review. Mr Ms SIPP fund was then worth some 
£297,680.39.
At about the same time there was correspondence between WPS and Firm B about the 
introducer agreement. Firm B confirmed by email that it was responsible for providing 
introduced clients with advice about transferring defined benefits but, if servicing reverted to 
WPS, it would then be responsible for any changes to the advice. 
I understand that Mr M advised WPS in May 2021 hed be transferring his pension to a new 
provider and he no longer required WPSs services. 
Mr M via his representative complained to WPS in September 2021. WPS issued its final 
response letter on 15 November 2021. In summary WPS said it hadnt given advice to Mr M 
 hed been referred to Firm B whod recommended that Mr M transfer his BSPS benefits. 
The complaint was referred to us. Our investigator issued her initial view on 29 July 2022. 
She didnt uphold the complaint. Essentially she said that WPS hadnt advised Mr M in 
connection with the transfer but had referred him to another business which held the relevant 
permissions. 
She issued an addendum to her view on 5 August 2022, reiterating that she was unable to 
uphold the complaint. In summary she said WPS had played a role both before and after the 
transfer of Mr Ms BSPS benefits. But there was no evidence WPS had given the initial 
advice to transfer to a SIPP. WPS had within six months of the transfer taken over servicing 
responsibility. And, in accordance with the charging agreement, Firm B had received and 
sent payments to WPS on an ongoing basis. In December 2018 WPS had reviewed Mr Ms 
portfolio and didnt recommend any changes. The following year a similar review was 
undertaken and again no changes were recommended. 
The investigator said WPSs involvement was limited to introducing Mr M to Firm B, after 
completing the fact find and ATR questionnaire, and providing ongoing services after the 
transfer. WPS wasnt responsible for the advice to transfer or completing the transfer as that 
had been done by another firm. 
Mr Ms representative asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the views set out by the investigator in her views and with the 
reasons she gave as to why Mr Ms complaint about WPS shouldnt be upheld. I dont have 
much to add to what the investigator said. 
Mr Ms complaint is that the advice he received to transfer his BSPS benefits was unsuitable. 
But, from what Ive seen, WPS didnt give Mr M any advice in connection with the transfer of 
those benefits. Mr M had defined (final salary) benefits in BSPS. WPS was unable to advise 
Mr M as it didnt have the necessary permissions from the regulator to advise on defined 
benefit or final salary transfers. So WPS referred Mr M to Firm B as Firm B did have the 
necessary permissions. And there was an introductory agreement in place. 
Firm B went on to advise Mr M to transfer. Ive seen that Mr M has also made a complaint 
about Firm B. That complaint has been dealt with separately. All Im looking at here is his 
complaint about WPS. 
Initially WPSs role was limited to introducing Mr M to Firm B. WPS did complete a fact find 
and an ATR questionnaire with Mr M which WPS forwarded to Firm B. But thereafter WPS 
wasnt involved in the advice to transfer. And, after Mr M had indicated to Firm B that he 
wanted to proceed with a transfer, WPS didnt carry out or facilitate the transfer. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that WPS gave any advice in connection with the transfer or that 
the arrangement between WPS and Firm B was other than or extended beyond an 
introducer agreement. 
Mr M did revert to WPS relatively soon after the transfer had been completed. But that was 
for ongoing investment advice, aimed at ensuring the portfolio which Firm B had 
recommended in connection with the transfer remained suitable for him. 
I dont see that WPS can be held responsible for the advice to transfer when that advice had 
been given by another regulated business and the transfer was carried out by that other 
business too. I dont think any losses Mr M has suffered in consequence of transferring were 
as a result of anything that WPS did. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to uphold the 
complaint against WPS. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I'm not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman