DRN-3601077
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money he lost to a scam.
Mr B is represented by his brother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr B himself.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, in July 2020, Mr B fell victim to a rogue trader scam, whereby he lost 
£277,500 to fraudsters who led Mr B to believe they were fixing his roof. Having realised he 
had been scammed, Mr B paid for a reputable builder to put things right, at the cost of 
£12,000.
However, some months later, another individual knocked on Mr Bs door, also claiming to be 
a builder. The individual told Mr B that the previous work on his roof had been poorly 
completed and that he could put it right. Unfortunately, this individual was also a fraudster 
and it is the subsequent payments that make up this scam that Ill be considering in this 
decision.
The fraudster claimed to be working for a roofing company and provided the business name, 
company number and website, which Mr B checked. Mr B explains the builder convinced 
him he was genuine by showing him examples of where the roof was substandard, such as 
taking some of the tiles off to demonstrate. However, as some work was carried out the 
scope of the job kept increasing. By the end of the scam, Mr B had paid £422,690 to the 
scammers, by bank transfers to multiple payees as well as through cash payments 
withdrawn in Lloyds branches. From reviewing Mr Bs statements, I can see the scam 
payments were funded by his current account, as well as savings, an ISA and loans.
As the scam escalated, Mr B called Trading Standards in desperation, who had helped him 
when hed previously been a scam victim and from there it came to light that Mr B had sadly 
fallen victim to a similar scam.
Lloyds investigated Mr Bs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mr B with a 
refund. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case.
Lloyds considers Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a 
legitimate building firm and therefore making legitimate payments. It considers Mr B ought to 
have conducted more checks before proceeding with the works, particularly as Mr B had 
recently fallen victim to the same scam and therefore had an awareness of them. It also 
considers it provided relevant effective warnings at appropriate times during the scam. 
Lloyds has said it spoke with Mr B on two occasions to question the payments he was 
making and that both times, Mr B wasnt honest in some of the answers he gave, making it 
more difficult for Lloyds to protect him. It considers if intervention had taken place sooner, Mr 
B wouldve provided the same answers as he did in later calls and therefore it wouldve been 
difficult for Lloyds to identify the scam.  It said when in branch making cash withdrawals, Mr 
B was spoken to in a private room about the payments he was making and was given scam 
advice, although it hasnt been able to provide evidence of what was specifically discussed.
Lloyds has also demonstrated that for two new payees Mr B made transfers to, he received 
the following online warnings:
Warning one  invoice or bill selected
[customer name], have you been sent a new invoice or bill
Call the person or company
Use a phone number you trust, not one form an email or invoice
Double-check the account number, sort code and name
Warning two  something else selected
[customer name], we'll never call you and tell you to move your money.
If you get a call like this it's a scam.
Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number.
Don't believe them hang up the phone.
Mr B disagreed with Lloyds outcome so brought the complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered the complaint  he agreed that Mr B didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
when making the payments to the fraudster. However he also considered Lloyds couldve 
done more to protect Mr B from fraud from the point Mr B made the fourth payment transfer 
to the fraudster. The investigator therefore recommended Lloyds should be 50% liable for 
the fourth payment transfer and all subsequent transfers and cash withdrawals made 
towards the scam.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators outcome. It considered that as Mr B hadnt been 
open and honest in other calls it had with him, further questioning on its part wouldnt have 
uncovered the scam as Mr B was concealing it. As Lloyds has disagreed, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised it.
In this case, Mr B made some payments via online banking transfers, which are covered by 
the CRM Code that Lloyds is a signatory of. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to 
meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
While the cash withdrawals Mr B made arent covered by the CRM Code, I consider Lloyds 
should still fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As different considerations apply to the bank transfers and cash withdrawals Mr B made, Ill 
consider Mr B and Lloyds liability for each payment method separately.
Bank transfer payments
I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr B under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for believing the payments he made were genuine?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Lloyds has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr B was making are enough to support its 
position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payments he made. I dont think Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the person he 
transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr B had sadly fallen victim to a scam almost identical to this one less than a year before 
this scam took place. I think its therefore reasonable to conclude that he had an awareness 
of how these scams were presented and developed, so that when approached the second 
time, he ought to have proceeded with greater caution  particularly as Mr B had already 
paid for remedial work on his roof since the previous scam and hasnt mentioned any 
concerns he had himself with the work.
Despite this, Mr B paid significant amounts up front for work, without conducting other 
checks Id have considered reasonable in the circumstances, such as obtaining other 
quotes/opinions, more extensive research on the company, or paying the builder by more protected methods. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable 
basis for believing the builder was offering a genuine service and so fell below the level of 
care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Did Lloyds do enough to protect Mr B from financial harm from fraud?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
Having reviewed the online warnings Mr B saw, I dont think either of them can be deemed 
effective under the terms of the Code, as neither sets out the key hallmarks of a rogue 
trader scam, or how Mr B could have better protected himself.
When Mr B made the third payment transfer of £25,000, he was required to speak to Lloyds 
fraud team before the payment was processed. During the call Mr B explained the payment 
was for materials for his roof that needed rebuilding. The advisor explained other payment 
methods that are safer, to which Mr B responded he wished hed been told this seven 
months ago when he was the victim of a scam. Mr B confirms with the advisor that materials 
for the build had arrived and Mr B also advised the payment details were provided on an 
invoice.
Lloyds has said it didnt intervene on the first two payment transfers Mr B made, as Mr B had 
made other large payments that year  however from reviewing Mr Bs banks statements I 
can see the transfers Lloyds are referring to are those that formed part of the previous scam. 
I therefore dont think its fair to consider these when deciding what Mr Bs usual account 
activity was and that the second payment Mr B made to the scammers should have been the 
point where intervention occurred. However, had this happened, I think Mr B wouldve 
provided similar answers to Lloyds as he did when they spoke to him for payment three  
and I dont think there was anything particularly suspicious within this call that ought to have 
concerned Lloyds that Mr B had fallen victim to another scam.
However, during this call, Mr B also said he would be making occasional further payments, 
around £1,000 to £2,000 each month over the next ten months, but not anymore payments. 
Three days later, Mr B made another payment for a further £25,000 to the same payee 
(payment four), without intervention from Lloyds. I think at this point Mr B had made Lloyds 
aware of his intentions for future payments and the subsequent account activity clearly didnt 
match. Lloyds has questioned whether further intervention wouldve made a difference, as it 
argues Mr B wasnt honest when he said hed received building materials and an invoice. 
However, I think its fair to say that had Lloyds called Mr B to question this request, there 
would have been enough for Lloyds to have been concerned, even if Mr B had maintained 
these points. I say that because by this point, Mr B had requested payments totalling 
£60,000 within the space of just a week  which is a significant amount to have paid for a 
roof, even in full. Even if a builder had provided invoices and provided materials, I think 
Lloyds ought to be aware that this alone isnt enough to be assured that a builder is genuine 
and that fraudsters often start jobs, or cause some damage to properties in order to continue 
receiving further payments. Had Lloyds asked more questions, such as how contact was 
made, what progress had been made, why further payments had already been required or 
what the total build cost was likely to be, it wouldve raised further concerns that Mr B may 
be at risk of financial harm.
Considering Mr B had recently been the victim of a similar scam, which Lloyds was aware of, 
I think it ought to have done more to assure itself that Mr B hadnt been targeted again at this point. I think its important to note that Mr B hadnt been entirely evasive with Lloyds when 
questioned  hed been honest that payments he was making were towards building work, 
that he hadnt used the company before and that hed previously been the victim of a scam. 
In later calls with Lloyds as well, the majority of the information Mr B provided was accurate, 
with him raising concerns himself about whether hes falling victim to another scam. Lloyds 
has referred to one later call with Mr B where he was dishonest with Lloyds about why he 
was making some payments. However, this was further down the line of the scam and Mr B 
has provided evidence that at this point, the fraudster was telling Mr B what to say to the 
bank. Had Lloyds contacted Mr B when he made the fourth payment transfer to question 
why another large value payment was being made, I think its more likely than not Mr B 
wouldve confirmed this was for further works that were being completed on his home. 
Based on the value of payments Mr B wouldve already sent at this point, and having 
previously been a scam victim, I think Lloyds ought to have been on alert at this point that Mr 
B may be at risk of fraud and taken further steps to protect him, such as asking further 
questions and requesting further evidence of the build and its cost before allowing further 
payments to be made.
Had Lloyds done so, I think this wouldve further validated any concerns Lloyds ought to 
have had and the scam couldve been uncovered. 
Cash withdrawals
As well as bank transfers, Mr B also made over 20 cash withdrawals over the course of the 
scam, ranging in value between £200 and £10,700. Lloyds has referred to conversations it 
had with Mr B in branch where it discussed cash withdrawals Mr B was making, however no 
notes have been kept. Therefore its difficult to know whether any of these conversations 
went far enough to identify if Mr B was at risk of financial harm, or if key indicators were 
missed. From later telephone calls Ive listened to between Lloyds and Mr B for bank 
transfers, its clear Mr B is concerned about the payments hes making and that hes worried 
about fraudsters contacting him. I therefore think Mr B wouldve been open to Lloyds advice 
and intervention in branch, had it been clear enough that it had genuine concerns. 
Therefore, as I think Lloyds couldve done more to protect Mr B, but as explained, Mr B also 
couldve done more to protect himself, I think a 50:50 liability split again between Mr B and 
Lloyds, for all bank withdrawals made after Mr Bs fourth bank transfer, is a fair outcome to 
acknowledge that both parties couldve done more in the circumstances from this point.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund Mr B 50% of the money he sent to the fraudster, from 
the fourth bank transfer onwards, totalling £193,845.
I understand that Mr B used funds from several sources to make payments to the fraudster, 
including his current and savings accounts, ISAs and a loan. Mr B has provided evidence for 
the loan interest rates that show for two of them, the interest he is repaying is under 8%, for 
one its over 8%. Mr B doesnt know what interest he wouldve received on his stocks and 
shares ISA as there wasnt a guaranteed pay-out value for this. I think Lloyds should pay 
interest on the money Mr B lost from his current account, ISA and through his loans at a rate 
of 8% simple interest, from the date payments were made until the date of settlement, as a 
pragmatic solution in the particular circumstances of this case. For payments made via Mr 
Bs savings account, Lloyds should apply interest at the savings account rate, again from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr B 50% of the money he lost to the scam, from the fourth bank transfer 
onwards, totalling £193,845.
Pay 8% simple interest on funds lost from Mr Bs current account, or payments 
funded by Mr Bs ISA or loans, from the date the payments were made to the date of 
settlement.
Pay interest at the account rate for payments funded by Mr Bs savings account, from 
the date the payments were made to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman