DRN-3829976
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Leeds Building Society dealt with a transaction.
What happened
Mr A says he went to a Leeds branch on 6 June 2022 to make a payment of £100 to another 
of his accounts. He says he paid the £20 transaction fee but only £92 was received into his 
other account. Mr A says there was a delay in him receiving the payment and would like 
compensation for the delay and for the difference of £8. He says Leeds didnt tell him there 
would be an £8 deduction.
Leeds says it hasnt made a mistake and told Mr A its fee would be £20. It says it transferred 
the £100 the same day and its records show the payment was processed that day. Leeds 
says there were other banks involved in the process and the charge may have been made 
by one of them which its not responsible for.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think Leeds had made a mistake and had provided evidence it sent the money on 6 June 
2022. The investigator didnt think Leeds was responsible for the £8 charge.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says he has an e-mail from bank I will call S which says 
it charged the £8 and says he should take up the issue with a bank I will call H which sent it 
the money. Mr A says its Leeds job to find out what happened and its responsible for the 
charge. He would like the full evidence of data between all of the banks involved to find out 
what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
the £8 deduction. I accept Mr A will have unanswered questions about the charge that this 
service cant answer or help him with.
I make clear that I can only consider the actions of Leeds here. I say that as there are four 
other banks involved in this transaction including Mr As other bank which I will call U. I 
think on balance that H acted as intermediary for Leeds and S for U. It is well known by the 
parties why other banks were involved due to the type of account Mr A held with U. 
I have looked carefully at Leeds records and am satisfied it clearly told Mr A that it would 
charge him £20 for the transaction and that it did so. Im also satisfied that Leeds started the 
process for sending the money on 6 June 2022 in line with Mr As instructions and sent the 
full amount of £100. It follows that I cant fairly hold Leeds responsible for any delay in Mr A 
receiving the money and am satisfied Leeds didnt make the £8 deduction. Im satisfied that 
if there was a mistake here then it wasnt made by Leeds and that it wasnt responsible for 
what I think was a minimal delay in the money being received in Mr As U account.
Mr A has provided an e-mail from S which confirms it made the £8 charge and not any of the 
banks involved. I have made clear that I think S was acting on behalf of U and not Leeds. I 
dont think the e-mail is particularly clear as to why S made the £8 charge but as I am sure 
Mr A appreciates, we are unable to request further information from it. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly conclude S made the charge as a result of anything Leeds did or 
didnt do. And I have made clear that I find Leeds followed Mr As instructions and was clear 
about its charge of £20.
Overall, Im satisfied Leeds didnt charge the £8 and processed Mr As transaction as it said 
it would. I cant fairly hold Leeds responsible for the actions of a different bank in these 
circumstances and where there is no evidence that Leeds made a mistake in how it 
processed the transaction. It follows that I cant fairly order Leeds refund the £8 charge 
made or pay any compensation as Mr A would like. I find this now brings an end to what we 
in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to assist Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman