DRN-3541665
The complaint
Mr P complains that Cullen Wealth Limited (Cullen) has failed to provide him with 
appropriate advice and ongoing management regarding his pension savings.
What happened
Mr P held pension savings on which he had previously received advice from Cullen. That 
advice, and the subsequent investment of the pension savings, had first taken place in 2007. 
Cullen received an ongoing renewal (or trail) commission from the pension provider as a 
result of that initial advice and investment.
Around 2015 Cullen advised Mr P that, since he was resident overseas elsewhere in the EU, 
it would not be able to provide him any further advice in regard to his pension savings. It 
suggested that he might want to get back in touch with the firm should he return to the UK 
and require any further advice.
Mr P says that he returned to the UK in early 2017. I can see that he advised his pension 
provider of that change of address. But Cullens records do not show that Mr P made any 
further contact with the firm until 2020. At that time Cullen identified that Mr Ps pension 
investments were performing poorly and were held in a legacy product. It provided some 
new advice to Mr P, without charging its usual fee, for the transfer of the pension savings to 
a new product, with revised investments.
Mr P is unhappy with the performance of his pension savings over the years. He says that 
Cullen has received significant amounts of commission over the years without providing him 
with any ongoing advice regarding his pension investments. And he points out that, in recent 
years, Cullen itself has said that it was prevented from providing advice by its understanding 
that Mr P was resident overseas.
When Mr P first complained to Cullen it didnt accept that it had previously agreed to provide 
him with ongoing advice and management relating to his pension savings. But, as a gesture 
of goodwill, it offered to refund the commission payments it had received whilst it had been 
unable to provide any advice since it believed Mr P was resident overseas. Mr P didnt 
accept that offer and brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Cullen 
had any contractual responsibility to provide on-going advice to Mr P. And he noted that, 
even if such a responsibility had arisen, Cullen would have been unable to advise Mr P due 
to its belief that he was resident overseas. He said he hadnt seen anything to suggest that 
Mr P had contacted Cullen with his new address when he returned to the UK in 2017. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. And he later told us that Cullen had decided to 
terminate its relationship with him. He thought the motives behind that decision were 
unprofessional during an independent complaints procedure and thought that it underlined 
that Cullen had been dishonest in its management of its relationship with him. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Cullen. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems to me that there are two distinct, but interrelated issues involved in this complaint. 
Firstly whether the renewal commission Cullen received as a result of the advice it gave to 
Mr P in 2007 created a responsibility for it to provide Mr P with ongoing servicing and advice 
about his pension savings. And secondly, should I think Cullen needed to provide Mr P with 
ongoing advice, whether it treated him fairly in respect of his residence overseas, and 
subsequent return to the UK.
Cullen provided Mr P with some advice about his pension savings in 2007. At that time Mr P 
signed a Terms of Business agreement with the firm. Part of that agreement dealt with the 
provision of investment advice. It stated;
As part of our service we will review your investments on request, writing to you with 
a statement of their current value and with any recommended changes. If required, 
we will arrange for an interview to discuss any recommendations made.
As a result of the advice Mr P was given in 2007, Cullen started to receive renewal 
commission based on the value of his pension investments. Renewal commission was paid 
by a product provider to a financial advisor on an ongoing basis. Whilst often funded by a 
deduction from the value of the pension investments as part of the administrative charges, 
having no advisor, or no renewal commission being paid, wouldnt reduce the level of those 
charges  the same level of deductions would be made, and simply retained by the product 
provider. 
Following what was known as the Retail Distribution Review in 2012, it was no longer 
allowed for renewal (or trail) commission to be paid from new investments  but existing 
arrangements were allowed to continue. The FCA said at that time that it hoped this would 
help ensure more transparency on the charges consumers paid to, and the services they 
received from, their financial advisors.From the evidence I have seen, and considering the text of the terms of business agreement 
above, I havent seen anything that makes me think there was a formal arrangement in place 
under which Cullen agreed to provide Mr P with ongoing management, or unsolicited advice, 
about his pension savings. I think the nature of their agreement was that, from time to time, 
Mr P would request information, or advice, that Cullen would provide either free of charge or 
at a cost to be agreed at the time.
So Im not persuaded, for the reasons given above, that the receipt of renewal commission 
by Cullen gave rise to any responsibility to regularly monitor or manage Mr Ps pension 
investments. I think the agreement between the two parties was such that it was left to Mr P 
to seek specific advice and support from Cullen at times of his choosing.
So I think that leads to a conclusion that the decisions Cullen took, in relation to the 
residence of Mr P, did not affect any obligation it held to provide him with advice. But, for 
completeness, I will reflect a little on that situation.
The regulations around the provision of financial advice to consumers who were resident 
overseas were complex. And, at that time, it was largely left to firms to reach their own 
conclusions about the extent of their activities whilst remaining in line with their regulatory 
permissions. And so it was on that basis that, in 2015, Cullen decided that it might find itself 
in breach of those permissions should it continue to provide advice to Mr P whilst he was 
resident outside the UK. 
I entirely accept that Mr P says he had previously received advice from the firm whilst 
resident abroad. But I dont think that means Cullen had reviewed the situation and decided 
that it would be able to provide that sort of service to him indefinitely. Instead, as in many 
businesses, it is likely that Cullen reviewed its activities, to ensure ongoing compliance with 
its understanding of the relevant regulations. And so, in 2015, it reached the conclusion that 
it should stop offering advice to Mr P.
As Ive explained above, I dont think Cullen was receiving a fee, or commission, from Mr Ps 
pension investments that led to an obligation to provide him with ongoing advice. So Cullens 
stance, in not offering advice at that time didnt mean that it was, as Mr P suggests, taking a 
fee for something that it wasnt providing.
I can see that Cullen invited Mr P to get back in touch should he require any advice or 
support once he had returned to the UK. And I can see that Mr P wrote to his pension 
provider in early 2017 to provide a new address in the UK so I accept he had returned by 
that time. But it doesnt seem to me that Mr P informed Cullen of his new address, or made 
any request of the firm, until 2020. So I dont think it unreasonable that Cullen didnt make 
any contact with Mr P during those years.
When Mr P first made his complaint to Cullen it offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to refund 
the commission it had received since 2016. I am not going to direct that Cullen should 
honour that offer since I dont think the firm has done anything wrong. But Cullen might 
choose to make that repayment to Mr P, and so Mr P might want to get in touch with the firm 
to understand whether the offer remains open to him.
I have seen that Mr P has told us that Cullen has now decided to terminate its relationship 
with him. That doesnt form part of this complaint and so I will not deal with it in any detail. 
Mr P has acknowledged that Cullen had the right, under the agreement he signed, to end its 
relationship at any time. If Mr P feels that Cullens actions have been unreasonable, he 
would need to make a new complaint to the firm, and then refer it to us if necessary.In conclusion, I dont think that the renewal commission Cullen received over the years 
created any obligation to provide Mr P with ongoing support or advice on his pension 
investments. And I dont think Cullen acted unreasonably in deciding to not offer any 
services to Mr P whilst he was resident overseas. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Cullen Wealth Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman