The complaint  
Mr B and Mr N complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)  
handled a claim for subsidence they made under their home insurance policy.  
Mr B and Mr N are joint policy holders. But as most of the correspondence with RSA has  
been with Mr B, for ease, Ill refer solely to Mr B throughout.  
What happened  
In November 2019 Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy for possible  
subsidence. RSA appointed subsidence experts (the agents) to manage the claim. The  
agents surveyed Mr Bs property but decided the damage wasnt covered under his policy.  
They believed the damage was more likely to have been caused by alterations made to the  
property rather than subsidence. Mr B challenged that finding and  a second survey was  
undertaken. That found there was movement but recommended six months of level  
monitoring to establish the cause. The monitoring showed movement and RSA believed the  
damage was subsidence related. So, it arranged for a site investigatio n that confirmed the  
subsidence was related to tree roots. An arborist report said that work would be needed on  
trees belonging to a third party at the back of Mr Bs property. Progress was slow and work  
on the trees kept on getting pushed back.  
Mr B made a complaint to RSA in April 2022. He raised a number of issues. His main  
concern was the delay in progressing his claim, from the initial time taken to decline his  
claim, the delay in taking action once it accepted his claim, and then the delay in pro gressing  
matters since then. He was also unhappy with the quality of the first surveyors report and  
with the general handling of his claim, which he said meant he had to constantly chase RSA  
for an update, often without getting a reply. He said the whole matter had caused him  
distress and anxiety and it was affecting his mental health. He had no confidence in the  
agents representing RSA and he wanted new agents to be appointed.  
RSA accepted there were about five months of excessive and avoidable delays in  
progressing Mr Bs claim. And occasions when it either didnt call him back when it said it  
would or failed to update him on progress of the level monitoring. It apologised and offered  
to pay Mr B £500 for any inconvenience caused. It didnt think the age nts had failed to  
respond to any queries Mr B had raised in a timely manner. And thought the agents had  
taken appropriate action to progress the work on the trees. But said it couldnt force Mr Bs  
neighbour into completing those works.  
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our  
investigator agreed that RSA had caused delays and Mr B had needed to chase for updates  
more than he should have done. But he thought the £500 compensation RSA had given him  
was about rig ht and he didnt think it needed to do anything more.  
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to make a  
decision. I came to a different conclusion to our investigator, so I sent a provisional decision  
DRN-3835539to Mr B and RSA to give them an opportunity to comment. RSA said it would accept the  
outcome while Mr B didnt reply. So, my findings and my decision below are substantially the  
same as set out in my provisional decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I note that Mr Bs claim has continued beyond RSAs final response to his complaint, and  
hes remained unhappy with how its h andled matters. To be clear, in this decision, I will only  
be looking at issues up until this final response and wont comment on whats happened  
after this date. Mr B should make a separate complaint if hes not happy with the more  
recent handling of his claim.  
 
Mr B raised a number of points in his complaint. I wont set out every detail hes mentioned  
but Id like to reassure him that I have read through all the information we have on file even  
though Ill only focus on the key points hes raised.  
 
The i nitial survey was not to an acceptable standard  
 
Mr B was concerned about the quality of the first survey. He said the second surveyor told  
him the first survey wasnt worth the paper it was written on. I dont think it would be fair on  
RSA to rely on some thing that was said to Mr B without some further evidence to  
corroborate it. But I can understand Mr Bs concern that the first survey was flawed,  
particularly as the second survey reached a different conclusion. That said, I think RSA was  
entitled to rely  on the experts report even if events subsequently showed that Mr Bs  
property was affected by subsidence. When Mr B challenged the first survey report, RSA  
explained the process and a second survey was undertaken. I think that was reasonable  
action to ta ke in the circumstances and a fair way of getting matters back on track.  
 
Customer service and keeping Mr B updated  
 
Mr B says he often had to phone or email the agents several times before he got a  
response. RSA said the agents had a service level agreement to keep Mr B updated every  
60 days. The information Ive seen shows that, for the most part, it did that, although there  
were some notable gaps such as between March and July 2020, see below. I recognise that  
Mr B might have wanted more frequent updates, but I think it was reasonable for the agents  
to follow the service level agreement it had with RSA. When Mr B continued to complain that  
he wasnt being updated as often as hed like, the agents increased the frequency of their  
updates. From Novem ber 2021 it agreed to update Mr B every two weeks. Again, for the  
most part, it did that. Although, as noted below, it failed to update Mr B at a crucial time  
between February and April 2022.  
 
Delays up to the arborist report  
 
Unfortunately for policyholde rs, this sort of claim can take a long time to resolve because of  
the need to find the cause of the subsidence and then resolve that issue before action can  
be taken to repair any damage. When a period of monitoring is necessary or theres a need  
to involv e third parties, as in this case, its always likely to take a good deal of time before 
the claim is resolved. Notwithstanding this, Id expect insurers to progress subsidence claims  
efficiently and, in this case, I can understand why Mr B is upset that th e process of  
investigating and repairing his property has taken so much longer than it needed to.  
 
Things seem to have progressed quite quickly at the start of Mr Bs claim. I know he wasnt  happy with the first survey report, which led to his claim being declined. But that first survey  
was conducted within a month of Mr B making the claim. RSA accept there was then a slight  
delay in contacting Mr B to arrange a second survey and it didnt call him back when it said it  
would. But the second survey was under taken quite soon after Mr B challenged the decision  
to decline his claim. Unfortunately, things then started to go wrong. There was an avoidable  
delay of several months before any further action was taken. It would seem that an  
administrative mistake was m ade and nothing happened on the claim between  
February/March and July/August 2020. RSA has accepted that this was an excessive and  
avoidable delay. It apologised and took it into account when offering £500 compensation.  
 
Following the second survey, the agents agreed that the damage to Mr Bs property looked  
to be caused by subsidence. They then needed to work out what was causing it. So, they  
began six months of level monitoring to assess the scale of what was happening. This  
should have started several months earlier than August 2020, which is when it did start.  
In March 2021, after a little over six months of level monitoring, the agents said the results  
confirmed ground movement consistent with tree root induced clay shrinkage. It said RSA  
had accepted  Mr Bs claim and it would meet the cost of investigating and repairing the  
damage to his property. The agents said the next step would be to gather evidence to  
confirm what was causing the subsidence. Over the next three months, the agents carried  
out inv estigative work, which included digging a trial pit and a bore hole and checking the  
drainage system using CCTV.  
 
In June 2021 the agents confirmed that the subsidence was due to root induced clay  
shrinkage. It said the cause of that movement needed to be dealt with first and theyd  
commissioned an arborist to find out the extent of the work on the trees. The arborist  
reported in July 2021 that work was needed to remove trees at the bottom of Mr Bs garden,  
on land owned by his neighbour.  
 
The agents haven t identified any major delays in progressing work after it instigated the  
level monitoring in August 2020, and I would agree that things progressed reasonably until it  
was necessary to involve a third party. As Ive said, this sort of claim can take time a nd while  
I can understand Mr Bs frustration, I dont think the time it took to investigate, monitor and  
assess the situation was unreasonable over this period. RSA has said that it didnt always  
update Mr B on the level monitoring when it should have done . It apologised for that service  
failure and took it into account when it offering £500 compensation.  
 
Removal of several trees  
 
Following receipt of the arborists report in July 2021, the agents wrote to Mr Bs neighbour  
in early August 2021 notifying them of the need to remove several trees at the back of the  
property. At the time Mr B made his complaint to RSA in April 2022, no work had been done  
on the trees and hed recently been told that no work would be done until the Autumn or  
Winter o f 2022. So why the delay?  
 
As Ive said, where a third party is involved in a claim, it will often take longer to settle, as the  
claim moving forward is dependent on the actions of that third party, which are outside of the  
businesses control. But Id expe ct to see that the business did all it could to ensure the claim  
was being moved along as promptly as possible. So, Ive looked carefully at what RSA did  
over this period.  
 
The agents sent a copy of the arborists report to the third party in early August 2021. In  
early September 2021 the third party told the agents theyd attended the site with a tree  
surgeon but it was difficult to identify which trees needed work as the photocopy of the  
arborists report was in black and white. They suggested a joint sit e visit so they could give  
clear instructions to the tree surgeon. No action was then taken by the agents until early  November 2021, nearly two months later, despite Mr B asking for an update on several  
occasions. The third party confirmed in mid -November that the agents had provided a  
coloured report. They then met with the tree surgeon in early December 2021 and accepted  
their quote to complete the works.  
 
Just before Christmas 2021 the third party told the agents they would need to contact the  
local auth ority for permission to close a footpath and enquire about a tree preservation order.  
In January 2022 they said they were finalising an agreement with other relevant parties. The  
agents asked the third party for an update in February 2002. But nothing then  happened 
until early April 2022, nearly two months later, despite Mr B chasing the agents for an update 
on two occasions to no avail. The agents then contacted the third party and it was at this 
point that they said work couldnt take place until October or November 2022. The reason 
given was that the trees in question are covered in fine hairs during the growing season and, 
if disturbed, they can affect the respiratory system of anyone working on them.  
 
RSA says the agents liaised with the neighbour every step of the way and chased where  
required to secure the tree works. But I dont entirely agree. I havent seen any evidence to  
show why the agents couldnt have responded to the third partys enquiry in  
September 2021. And the agents failed to follow up the enquiry they made in February 2022  
when they didnt receive a response, not chasing them again until April 2022. Had it given  
the third party the information it needed in September rather than November  2021, I think its  
more likely than not that the tree surgeon would have been able to provide a quote two  
months earlier than they did. I recognise that the third party would still have needed to liaise  
with the local authority for permission to close a f ootpath and discuss any tree preservation  
orders. But that could have started much sooner, particularly if the agents had been more  
proactive in chasing the third party for progress.  
 
Would the work on the trees have been concluded by the spring of 2022 ha d the agents  
been more proactive in liaising with the third party? Thats difficult to say. As RSA has said, it  
couldnt force the neighbour to complete the tree works. And I understand the need to  
maintain good relations with their clients neighbour. But  the delays caused by the agents  
lack of activity were significant and should be seen in the context of the window of  
opportunity the third party had to complete the work on the trees. The agents knew work  
could only be done in the autumn or winter and Mr  B emphasised that when he spoke to  
them. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the work would have been  
completed within that window had the agents liaised more proactively with the third party.  
So, what does that mean for Mr B? Because o f the poor service provided by RSAs agents,  
hell have to wait longer than would otherwise have been the case to have his property  
repaired. RSA has accepted responsibility for some of those delays already. But I think it  
needs to do more to put things ri ght. 
 
Putting things right  
 
Overall, RSA hasnt handled Mr Bs claim well and must take responsibility for the delays it  
could have avoided, and for the poor service its provided. RSA has accepted some of that  
poor service and has apologised and paid a total of £500 in compensation for the  
inconvenience its caused. But in light of my findings, I think it needs to do more.  
 
Mr B has made it very clear that he didnt complain in order to receive compensation. The 
outcome he wants is for his claim to be pr ogressed as quickly and efficiently as possible  
and, preferably, for a new agent to be appointed. That is understandable but its for an  
insurer to decide how to manage its claims and I cant tell it to change the agent its  
appointed. But I hope things wil l run more smoothly from now on.  
 
When things go wrong, I think its right that businesses should look to compensate the  consumer for any distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. In this case, there  
were avoidable delays that meant subsidence  work wasnt taken at Mr Bs property when it  
should have been. And at times the communication with Mr B wasnt as good as it should  
have been either.  
 
Mr B has described the distress and anxiety hes suffered as a result of RSAs poor service.  
The agents told him that the ideal time to remove the trees was during autumn or winter. He  
was therefore very keen to get the work done, if possible, over the autumn/winter of 2021/22  
and he emphasised that when he spoke to the agents. So, I can understand the frust ration  
he felt when he was told that wasnt going to happen despite his attempts to keep things  
moving. I can also understand how stressful it must be not to know how long the disruption  
will last, particularly when there was a lost opportunity to complete  the tree works in the  
winter of 2021/22. I think its right that RSA should pay compensation for the impact on Mr B  
(and Mr N). And in light of the particular circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair  
and reasonable for RSA to pay Mr B a furthe r £500 compensation for the impact of its poor  
service, in addition to the £500 its already offered.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance  
Limited should pay Mr B and Mr N a total of £1,000. It should pay the £500 its already  
offered if it hasnt done so already. And another £500 for the further poor service Ive  
identified in this decision.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr N to  
acce pt or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.  
 
Richard Walker  
Ombudsman  