DRN-2504648
The complaint
Mr D (through his representative) complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr D took out two Lending Stream loans during September and October 2019. 
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 19-09-2019 03-10-2019 6 £550.00 £197.87
2 08-10-2019 22-10-2019 6 £700.00 £223.36
Mr D mainly said that Lending Stream had failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
before lending to him. Had it done so, Mr D said Lending Stream wouldve seen the full 
extent of his underlying financial difficulty, including the fact that he was borrowing to pay 
other debt, including other short term high cost loans with other lenders. Mr D felt that with a 
proper understanding of his money problems, Lending Stream wouldve realised that he was 
unlikely to be able to repay these loans in a sustainable way  and not lent to him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr D for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which shouldve prompted it 
to check what Mr D had said in his loan applications.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr D had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve 
alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I've taken carefully into account everything that Mr D has told us, including the detailed 
representations his representative has sent us in response to the adjudicators view. I do 
appreciate that Mr D feels strongly that his credit record and his spending, which included 
substantial amounts owed elsewhere and being significantly overdrawn at the bank, 
shouldve made Lending Stream realise he couldnt afford further loans. And he believes that 
if Lending Stream had looked at his credit report and his bank statements this could have 
prevented unaffordable loans being given to him. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. Heres why I say this. 
Lending Stream agreed to Mr Ds applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr D provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr D and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr D provided. From what I can see, Mr D declared his income as £2200  
and after paying his declared outgoings (a figure which Lending Stream boosted to allow a 
safety margin for further unexpected spending) it still looked as though he should have had 
ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the repayments on this loan. 
At this early stage, Mr D didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive kept in mind what Mr D has said about his credit history. Its worth remembering that a 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might 
not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file.Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan.
It looks like Lending Streams credit checks didnt show anything adverse that shouldve 
prompted it either to ask Mr D more searching questions about his financial situation or 
check the information hed provided. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr D repaid loan 1 early and took out loan 2 less than a week 
later  borrowing a bigger loan this time. But I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had any 
reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr D.
I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr D had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay 
for loan 1. The figures hed declared, and the information Lending Stream had collected, 
seem to support Lending Streams lending decision.
Despite what Mr  D has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Lending Stream had recorded for Mr D, or anything else that 
it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Lending Stream think this loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr D when he took it out. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, based on all the information it seems Mr D told Lending Stream and the 
information it recorded for him on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr D had sufficient 
money left after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay these loans.
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr D fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to rely on the 
information he provided. The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve 
prompted Lending Stream to probe more deeply into Mr Ds reasons for borrowing or take 
steps to verify what he was saying. And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me 
looking at the information Lending Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide these 
loans.  
Im very sorry that Mr D found repaying these loans difficult. 
I accept that in reality Mr Ds financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information 
he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained.
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mr D. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr D but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman