DRN-4143230
The complaint
Miss B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly closed her credit card 
account.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss Bs credit card was due to be closed by RBS due to persistent debt, 
but they did not close this down then. Miss B paid off the outstanding balance in the summer 
of 2021 and she closed two third party credit card accounts she had, keeping her RBS credit 
card open. But in April 2022 RBS closed her account, 18 months after they had informed her 
they would close the account, even though they had just increased her credit limit. Miss B 
says as a result of the closure, her credit score fell by 230 points. She says she doesnt want 
to apply for another credit card as she is about to apply for a mortgage and the drop in her 
credit score may affect her eligibility and interest rate for the mortgage. Miss B says if RBS 
had closed her account when they originally said they would then she could have kept a third 
party credit card open. Miss B made a complaint to RBS.
RBS upheld Miss Bs complaint. They said her account was in persistent debt. As no 
persistent debt payment plan had been set up and/or the full outstanding balance repaid by 
the agreed date, the account was closed on 15 October 2020. RBS said that her account 
was re-opened due to a system issue, and as soon as they became aware of this, they 
contacted Miss B to explain this and to advise her the account would be re-closing. RBS said 
they would credit her bank account with £100 compensation for the error. Miss B brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. He said Miss B hadnt noticed the letters RBS 
had sent. And RBS even increased Miss Bs credit limit after the account should have been 
closed, so it was clear Miss B would have no reason to believe the account would need to be 
closed at any point in the near future. He said Miss B could input a notice of correction on 
the RBS entry, which lenders would have to take into consideration when she applied for 
credit. He said an additional £100 to total £200 compensation would be a reasonable 
amount of compensation. Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She 
said an extra £100 did not reflect the distress and inconvenience that RBS massive error 
caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that RBS made an error by not fully closing Miss Bs credit card account 
when they said they would. RBS has told us that even though the outstanding balance was 
repaid in June 2021, it wouldnt have made a difference to the account closure as she didnt 
contact them when they sent the relevant letter to her in 2020, which would have given Miss 
B 60 days to respond to them, to agree to clear the balance within six months, which would 
have been the only way to keep the account open. I appreciate Miss B has told us that she 
didnt notice the letters being sent due to the personal circumstances she had at the time, 
but this is the only way RBS say they could have kept the account open.
So as Miss B didnt contact RBS within this timeframe, that is why the account should have 
closed a lot earlier than when it was closed. But Miss B would have been under the 
impression that when she repaid her outstanding balance that she could continue using the 
RBS credit card without any issue. This would have been reinforced when RBS increased 
the credit limit. So I can sympathise with Miss B that it would have seemed she could 
continue using the card, and therefore she closed accounts elsewhere, which she has told 
us she wouldnt have done if RBS had closed her account in October 2020 as they said they 
would. 
So it would have been distressing when RBS closed Miss Bs account 18 months after they 
originally should have done. Miss B has told us the effect this had on her credit score. And 
she has told us that she will be applying for a mortgage shortly and this could affect her 
eligibility or her interest rate. But Id like to reassure Miss B that its unlikely that the actions 
of RBS would on its own affect any mortgage application. I say this as there are a number of 
factors which go into accepting a mortgage application. Mortgage providers would consider 
the information on a credit file as a whole and not just look at a credit score. In this instance 
they would be able to see that Miss B successfully repaid her RBS outstanding balance. As 
our investigator has mentioned to Miss B, she would be able to register a notice of 
correction with the credit reference agencies to explain what happened here.
Ive considered what Miss B has said about the compensation of an extra £100 not being 
enough due to the distress and inconvenience the issue had on her. But compensation is a 
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines. So Im satisfied that £200 compensation 
in total (minus anything Miss B has already been paid) would reflect the impact of RBS 
actions here and it is within our guidelines for what happened. So it follows Ill be asking 
RBS to put things right. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that RBS pay Miss B a further £100 compensation to total £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Miss B a further £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to total £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman