DRN-3681952
The complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to issues 
he experienced when trying to make payments to his credit card. 
What happened
Mr E holds a credit card account with HSBC. In May 2022, he called them to make a 
payment to his card but was unable to do so as his telephone security number (TSN) had 
been suspended. Mr E was told to visit a branch with his card, along with photographic 
identification (ID), and was told that branch staff would be able to reset his TSN. But Mr E 
said hed visited previously with ID, and it wasnt accepted, so he wasnt willing to attend 
again. He said that this shouldnt be his issue to resolve, and HSBC should reset his 
credentials so that he could continue making his payments by phone. He also said that 
HSBC shouldnt send any further notifications or payments reminders until the matter had 
been fixed. But HSBC disagreed, so Mr E complained.
HSBC considered Mr Es complaint and apologised for the difficulty hed faced accessing his 
account. They maintained that Mr E should visit a branch in order to resolve the matter, but 
they agreed on this occasion to send him a security pack by post which would allow him to 
reset his credentials. But they said that until Mr E could regain account access, they were 
unable to amend his communication preferences, and he would therefore continue to receive 
notifications. Mr E remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he 
didnt think it unreasonable for a block to have been placed on Mr Es account, given he had 
failed security. And he thought HSBCs suggested methods to resolve the matter were 
reasonable. He also thought there were other ways that Mr E could maintain his repayments. 
The investigator later tried to arrange a call for Mr E and HSBC to speak to try to resolve the 
matter, but ultimately, this call did not transpire. So, as the parties remain in disagreement, 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call between HSBC and Mr E, during which, HSBC make it clear 
that in order for Mr E to unlock his security credentials, he would need to visit a branch with 
his credit card and further ID. I appreciate Mr E has argued that he had been into the branch 
previously with ID, and that the staff wouldnt accept it. But the advisor explained that the 
system notes suggested this may have been because he didnt have his card with him at the 
time, and they reiterated that if he was to visit any branch with ID and his card, then he 
would be able to get his account unblocked. This seems reasonable.  
During the call, when it became clear Mr E was not willing to visit the branch, HSBC agreed 
to send Mr E a security pack by post in order to reset his credentials. They also explained 
that notifications would continue until such time that his account could be accessed. But 
Mr E maintained that he would wait to hear back from HSBC when theyd sorted the issue, 
despite HSBC making it clear they would not be calling. The call eventually reached a point 
where it was no longer constructive, and HSBCs advisor terminated it. Having listened to it, I 
dont think that action was unreasonable. HSBCs advisor had explained the next steps, and 
I dont think there was a need to continue a clearly deteriorating conversation. 
While communication seemed to break down, Mr E did still receive the security pack. So, Im 
pleased to see that HSBC did what it said it would do. That said, Mr E says he wasnt able to 
use it. He hasnt explained exactly why he couldnt, and from the information I have, theres 
nothing to suggest any reason why the security pack wouldnt work. On that basis, I cant 
fairly conclude that it was down to something HSBC did wrong. 
When the case came to us, the investigator explained that he felt HSBC had done enough to 
resolve matters. However, given that Mr E said he was still unable to access his account, the 
investigator tried to arrange a call between Mr E and HSBC. 
Its unfortunate the initial call the investigator tried to arrange did not take place. But it later 
transpired that HSBC were unable to call this day as the person due to call Mr E wasnt 
working at the time the call request was sent. The investigator tried to agree another 
occasion for Mr E and HSBC to talk, but Mr E said he was too busy. And on further attempts 
to arrange a call, Mr E said hed only do so once hed won the appeal, and had confirmation 
of some sort of error taking place on HSBCs part. He said that he should receive 
compensation, and would be happy for HSBC to write off his balance as a good will gesture.
I can understand Mr Es frustration, but it seems to me that every attempt made by HSBC to 
try and resolve this matter has been met with some resistance  with Mr E being either 
unwilling to attend a branch, and either too busy or unwilling to arrange a call after the first 
call didnt take place. And on balance, Im not persuaded there was much more HSBC could 
do in the circumstances.
And I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to continue to send correspondence to Mr E in 
line with his set communication preferences, until such time that Mr E has passed the 
relevant security checks required, in order to accesses his account and amend his 
preferences. So, while I appreciate this is not the answer Mr E was hoping for, for the 
reasons set out above, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
Should Mr E wish to continue to maintain payments on his account by telephone, he should 
contact HSBC, and look to utilise the options presented to him in order to resolve the matter. 
Mr E should also note, that if he fails to take the above course of action in order to resume 
payments, or fails to look into other methods by which to pay, its likely that ongoing late or 
missed payments will impact his credit file negatively.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman