DRN-1996319
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without 
telling it.
What happened
Mr D, a director of the company, brings this complaint on its behalf. He had a personal 
current account with Barclays, and his company had a business account. In August 2019 
both accounts were blocked as a precaution while the fraud department investigated a 
suspicious transaction on his personal account (which turned out to be innocent). Mr D was 
told about the block on his personal account, but it is not in dispute that Barclays failed to tell 
him it had closed Cs business account as well. In fact, he was told that only his personal 
account was affected, and he relied on this assurance to his detriment.
Mr D was on holiday overseas at the time. He decided to wait until he got home to get his 
personal account unblocked, since he did not need it urgently. But he says he would have 
aborted his holiday and come home early if he had known that Cs account had been 
blocked as well. He says the failure to tell him resulted in Cs account being blocked for 
longer than was necessary. Once he attended a branch with proof of his identity, his 
personal account was unblocked, but a block remained on Cs account for another three 
days. He had to return to the branch with the same evidence he had already provided. 
Altogether, the business account was blocked for 21 days.
Mr D says this caused great inconvenience. He says the company lost two contracts as a 
result, which were worth a total of £55,000. He also says his staff, who are paid weekly, went 
unpaid during this period, since their salaries could not be paid. He complained, and 
Barclays apologised for misinforming him and offered to pay him £400. However, it 
maintained that it had been correct to block the accounts in the first place. Barclays also did 
not accept liability for any loss of earnings.
Mr D did not accept that offer, and he brought this complaint to our Service on behalf of C. 
(His complaint about his personal account has been dealt with separately.)
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He agreed with Barclays that it had been entitled to 
block both accounts during its investigation. But he thought that C had lost both contracts as 
a result of misinforming Mr D about what had happened, because Mr D would have gone 
home and got the block removed from Cs account earlier otherwise. He accepted that the 
terms and conditions on Cs business account said that Barclays would not be liable for loss 
of opportunity, loss of profit or loss of goodwill (except in some very limited circumstances 
which did not apply in this case). But he nevertheless decided that it would still be fair and 
reasonable to recommend that Barclays compensate C for its financial loss, on the ground 
that no such loss would have been incurred but for the banks mistake.
The investigator calculated (based on Cs profit and loss accounts) that C would have made 
a profit of 30 per cent on the contracts if they had not been lost, and so he recommended 
that Barclays pay C £16,500 for lost profits, plus another £500 for inconvenience, damage to 
reputation and loss of goodwill. (This was in addition to the offer of £400, which the 
investigator decided was fair compensation for the complaint about Mr Ds personal 
account.)
Mr D accepted that opinion, but Barclays did not respond, despite being chased for a 
response. So this complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision, by default. 
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that due to an error or errors by Barclays, Cs account was blocked for 
longer than would otherwise have been the case. So it only falls to me to decide how much 
compensation would be fair to resolve this complaint.
I agree that the offer of £400 is not enough, but I do not agree that it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from the exclusionary clause in the account terms and conditions and 
to award a refund of the lost profits. I dont think it is unreasonable to have such a clause, or 
that the clause is unreasonable in its scope. It is a standard clause which is usually found in 
business account terms and conditions. It reads as follows:
8.20 If you have suffered any loss or damage because of something we have done, 
or didnt do when we should have, you will usually be able to claim back the loss 
from us. However, there are exceptions. You cannot claim back if:
 you are claiming for loss of business, loss of goodwill, loss of opportunity or loss of 
profit  we wont be liable for these in any circumstances 
None of these exceptions will apply, and we will always be liable, if:
 we act fraudulently
 we act with gross negligence, or
 we are at fault and the law does not allow us to exclude or limit liability.
I think that Barclays was negligent, but not grossly negligent. Gross negligence means a 
very high degree of carelessness, and I dont think that threshold is reached here. The other 
exceptions dont apply.
Although my remit is to reach a decision which is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, I also 
have to have regard to the law. If my decision departs from the law, I have to give my 
reasons why, and in this case I dont think there are reasons which would justify departing 
from the usual principle that the parties to a contract may agree to exclude the liability of one 
party for any economic loss it may cause to the other party. That is not to say that an 
ombudsman can never do so, but I think it would have to be an exceptional case.
However, I think that the inconvenience caused to C by not being able to pay its staff on time 
requires considerably more compensation than £500. I currently think that £2,000 is fair 
compensation for that, but I will consider any submissions by either party about that. In 
coming to that figure, I have assumed that if Mr D had travelled home immediately it would 
still have taken a few days for Barclays to conclude its investigation and lift the block.
I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further representations I receive 
from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay C £2,000.
(This is in addition to the £400 to resolve the other complaint. I do not know if this has been 
paid to Mr D yet.)Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr D did not. He explained that multiple 
members of staff at Barclays had told him the same thing, on different occasions  that his 
business account was not blocked and had nothing wrong with it. He argued that this was 
gross negligence.
I have re-considered whether Barclays was grossly negligent, since I agree that the more 
times a bank gives its customer the wrong information, the more likely this is to be more than 
just ordinary carelessness. However, Mr D says he discovered that his business account 
was blocked on the same day as he found out his personal account was blocked. He 
discovered this himself, when he tried to log in to his business account online and couldnt. 
When he contacted his business manager about this, he was told that his business account 
was fine  but by then Mr D knew this was not true. Mr D called the internet banking 
department, who were unable to help him so they transferred his call to the fraud 
department. The fraud department told him to go to the branch associated with his personal 
account with some identification, and Mr D said he would do that when he got back.
I think the situation could have been better explained to Mr D, and that better communication 
might have resolved the problem sooner. But nevertheless, Barclays did tell Mr D what he 
needed to do. He didnt realise that this would result in restoring access to his business 
account, and I think that is the banks fault, but I am afraid that I still dont think it reaches the 
level of gross negligence. Mr D knew that there was a problem with his business account, 
and  against the banks advice  he chose not to go home early to fix it.
My final decision
 So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
C £2,000, in addition to the £400 it has already paid or offered to pay it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman