DRN-2962616
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 46,000 miles. I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear on a vehicle of that age, but I dont think theyd think the 
faults Mrs B has been complaining of would be related to wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
As Mrs B reported the fault with the battery discharging, within the first six months I think its 
likely to be a problem that was present at the point the car was supplied to her.
Whats in dispute here is whether there is a fault at all. MotoNovo have arranged for an 
independent engineer to investigate and he couldnt find any fault with the battery. It had the 
right charge and didnt discharge any more than would be expected during a 15-minute test.
But Mrs B has had to call out breakdown services on at least five occasions and the battery 
has been replaced on at least two occasions. Shes explained that more recently shes had 
to return the car to the dealership on 13 August 2021 for a further battery issue. Its clear 
theres a problem. 
MotoNovo have suggested that Mrs B may be doing something to inadvertently discharge 
the healthy batteries. I understand that viewpoint, but I dont think theres any evidence of 
that and the dealership dont appear to have given any direction to Mrs B about what she 
may be doing wrong. 
It seems unlikely that three batteries would be faulty and more likely to me that an 
intermittent issue that may not be identified in a short 15-minute test, is discharging the 
battery on the car.
MotoNovo are disappointed that Mrs B hasnt agreed to a further inspection at a main 
dealership. I dont think Mrs B was unreasonable. Shes experienced significant problems 
over a prolonged period. The car has been with the dealership for an extended period of 
time during which such enquiries could have been made. I think Mrs B has provided 
sufficient evidence theres a fault with the car and I dont think it would be fair to prolong 
matters. 
The relevant legislation gives the business one chance to repair a fault present at the point 
of supply. I think the business has now had that opportunity and that they should allow Mrs B 
to reject the car as its not been of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should allow Mrs B to reject the car and they should collect it at no cost to her.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs B has paid and they should add interest to that 
deposit as Mrs B has been deprived of that money.
Mrs Bs use of the car has clearly been impacted by the regular battery issues. I can see the 
battery has discharged most months and I think its likely she will never have been confident 
the vehicle would start when she was planning a journey. Mrs B had travelled about 3,200 
miles in the car at the point of the independent inspection. Thats less than average mileage 
and supports the lack use I think shes had from the car. In those circumstances MotoNovo 
should refund 20% of all finance instalments that have been paid in respect of the lack of 
use Mrs B has experienced. Theyll need to add interest to that refund.
Mrs B has clearly been inconvenienced. Shes had to call out the breakdown services on 
several occasions; take her car to the dealership and make arrangements to be present for 
the independent inspection. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo should 
pay her £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:allow Mrs B to reject the car; end the finance agreement and collect the vehicle at no 
cost to Mrs B;
refund any deposit Mrs B has paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund 20% of the finance instalments Mrs B has paid in respect of lack of use and 
add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman