DRN-4139255
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs C hold with Nationwide UK Plc. Theyre 
unhappy with the way Nationwide handled a further advance application they made in 2022 
to raise money to repay their help-to-buy (HTB) loan. They say, in summary:
Nationwides affordability assessment ignored Mrs Cs second income and instead 
insisted Mr C pay down some credit card balances.
The offer contract contained a factual mistake about how much they owed on the HTB.
Nationwide released the funds and then took the money back, by which time the original 
offer had expired. 
Nationwide refused to extend the offer and instead made them apply again, which 
resulted in the money being lent at a higher interest rate.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in correspondence, so there is 
no need for me to repeat all of the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these reasons, I will give a brief summary 
of the main points, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C started applying for the further advance in January 2022; following an online 
interview on 19 February 2022, Nationwide issued an offer on 27 February 2022, valid until 
28 May 2022.  The offer specified two conditions; on or before the release of the funds, £800 
and £200 respectively were to be paid off two credit card balances, and £2 was to be paid off 
the HTB loan. In the case of the credit cards, these reductions were being made by 
Mr and Mrs C between offer and completion. In the case of the HTB loan, the £2 was a 
keying error; the entire loan balance of around £52,650 was being repaid in full from the 
further advance itself.
On 22 May 2022, Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors (a firm Ill call S) requested the funds from 
Nationwide. Nationwide released the money to S and opened up the further advance 
account. However, it seems S wasnt in a position to complete the settlement of the loan with 
HTB, and on 7 June 2022, the money was returned to Nationwide. 
Nationwide was asked to reinstate and extend the February offer; by Mr and Mrs C on 
16 June 2022 and by S the following day. However, by then, Nationwides 15-day grace 
period had expired and it said no. A new application was made, and Nationwide issued a 
new offer in July 2022, but this contained the same error about the amount to be repaid on 
the HTB. The offer was amended and re-issued in August 2022, and this time the 
transaction completed as it was meant to. 
But by now, interest rates generally had gone up, which means Mr and Mrs C are paying 
more for their further advance than they would have if theyd completed on the terms set out 
in the February 2022 offer. 
Mr and Mrs C complained; they said it was unfair of Nationwide to insist on the credit card 
reductions when it could have taken Mrs Cs second income into account. They said 
Nationwide should have honoured the interest rate in the February 2022 offer. Theyve also 
said the delay meant theyve ended up renewing the interest rate on their main mortgage at 
a higher level too.
Nationwide largely rejected the complaint, but paid Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation for 
their time, trouble and upset. Our investigator thought Nationwides response to the 
complaint was broadly fair, albeit he recommended a further £100 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C have asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
Having listened carefully to the recording of the further advance application call, Im satisfied 
that reducing the credit card balances wasnt something Nationwide insisted on happening. It 
was something Mr and Mrs C told Nationwide they were intending to do in any event. In 
other words, it was their idea, and Nationwide merely captured it on the offer. 
If Mr and Mrs C hadnt signalled their intention to reduce the credit card balances, Ive no 
reason to consider that Nationwide would have incorporated it into the mortgage offer. It 
wasnt something Nationwide needed to see happen from an affordability perspective. It had 
assessed the proposed loan as affordable, based on Mr Cs income and Mrs Cs income, 
from her first job alone.
Clearly, recording the amount to be repaid on the HTB as £2 was a keying error. It shouldnt 
have happened the first time and certainly should have been corrected in the July 2022 offer. 
However, Im not convinced its material to the outcome of the complaint. 
All of the involved parties knew that the intention was to clear the HTB in full; that was the 
very reason for the further advance being taken. It was an irritation, but in my view no more 
than that. In answer to Mr and Mrs C saying S warned them of serious legal consequences if 
theyd completed with the error in place, Id merely remind them that S was apparently 
content to complete the transaction in May 2022 on the basis of the original offer containing 
that very same error.Neither the release of the money nor its return was down to an error on Nationwides part. 
Nationwide issued the funds in good faith when asked to do so, and played no part in the 
money being returned to it on 7 June 2022. By the time Nationwide was asked to pick up the 
transaction again, the 15-day grace period since the expiry of the mortgage offer had itself 
run out. 
Nationwide was under no obligation to reinstate the offer on the February 2022 terms. It was 
fairly and reasonably entitled to underwrite the application afresh, and issue a new offer at a 
rate that was now applicable. Its unfortunate that, due to the upward trend in rates generally, 
their new rate was higher. But its worth observing, for completeness, that Mr and Mrs C 
would not have complained at Nationwide insisting on re-offering at a prevailing rate if rates 
generally had fallen between February and August 2022.
I understand Mr and Mrs C wanted to wait until the further advance had gone through before 
renewing the interest rate deal on the main mortgage. However, Im not persuaded the delay 
in the further advance had a detrimental impact on the renewal terms for the main mortgage. 
I say that because any new rate they took on the main mortgage before September 2022 
would have resulted in them paying an early repayment charge to exit their existing deal. Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs C knew that, because it was covered extensively in the online interview 
of 19 February 2022. That aside, for the reasons outlined above, I havent found Nationwide 
to be the cause of the further advance being delayed.
Nationwide paid Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. Our 
investigator recommended it pay them a further £100. In all the circumstances, I think thats 
fair. If no payment had been made, I would not order more.
In conclusion, I appreciate the unwelcome situation Mr and Mrs C are in; but for the reasons 
Ive set out, theyre not in that position because of something Nationwide did or failed to do. 
Thats why their complaint doesnt succeed, however much they would wish it to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, 
I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs C £100. I make no other order or 
award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman