DRN-3833867
The complaint
Ms Y complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money she 
lost, when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Ms Y was introduced to the potential of obtaining a grant, from who she thought was a friend 
on a well-known social media platform. But unknown to her at the time, Ms Y was dealing 
with fraudsters.
The fraudsters asked Ms Y to complete a form and she was told that in order to secure a 
grant of £50,000, she would need to make a payment of £1,000 for tax clearance. The 
fraudster told Ms Y that she needed to make payments through purchasing vouchers and 
then providing the voucher codes.
Believing the fraudsters to be genuine, on 18 August 2022, Ms Y followed their instructions 
and made eight point of sale transactions, totalling £800 (8 x £100 transactions), to purchase 
vouchers using her NatWest debit card. Ms Y went ahead and provided the serial numbers, 
from each of the vouchers, to the fraudsters as they instructed her to do.
On suspecting that she may have been the victim of a scam, Ms Y contacted NatWest the 
following day. NatWest informed Ms Y that the payments were pending, but that it was 
unable to stop the payments. Ms Y complained to NatWest, as she thought it should have 
stopped the payments because they were pending. NatWest looked into things and issued 
its final response on 4 October 2022 not upholding the complaint. In summary it said it was 
correct in telling Ms Y the payments couldnt be stopped, as when a payment is pending it is 
only the retailer that can cancel the payments. NatWest added that Ms Y hadnt taken any 
steps to validate the intentions of the company she was dealing with, and that the grant 
being offered was not plausible and too good to be true.
Ms Y then brought the complaint to our service and one of our Investigators looked into 
things. Our Investigator didnt think NatWest could have done anything to prevent the scam.  
In summary she didnt consider the transactions Ms Y had made were particularly unusual or 
suspicious, so she didnt think NatWest ought to have intervened. She also didnt think 
NatWest missed an opportunity to recover the funds, as Ms Y had received the items shed 
paid for, but unfortunately had given the codes to the fraudsters. Our Investigator added that 
she agreed with NatWest, in that there was no opportunity for it to stop the pending 
transactions from going through.
Ms Y didnt accept our Investigators view and so the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ms Y has mentioned that, as part of the same scam, she lost money from an account she 
held with a different bank. She said this money was refunded, so she thinks the money she 
lost from her NatWest account should also be refunded. But when reaching my decision, I 
can only consider the facts and the individual circumstances surrounding the payments Ms Y 
made from her NatWest account. So I wont be considering the payments that were made 
from the other service provider here. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms Y and I can understand entirely why she feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about 
NatWests actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transactions to leave  
Ms Ys account. And due to the nature of the transactions Ms Y made, where she bought 
vouchers, and effectively passed these onto the fraudsters through giving them the serial 
numbers  there was no opportunity for NatWest to recover any of the money she lost from 
the transactions she made.
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Ms Ys complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say NatWest should 
reimburse her the money she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters through these 
transactions. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms Y, when Ms Y made these transactions and when she reported the fraud, or whether 
it should have done more than it did. 
Its not in dispute here that Ms Y authorised the transactions using her debit card. Because 
of this, NatWest had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transactions - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed the activity on Ms Ys account statements, from which the transactions 
were made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the transactions  
Ms Y made were particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal 
account activity. During this period there are several other transactions, for in excess of 
£100. So I dont think the activity on the account was so unusual or suspicious, compared to 
how the account was typically run, that I think NatWest ought to have intervened before 
allowing the transactions to go through. 
Overall, Im not persuaded NatWest acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the 
transactions before processing them. And for the reasons Ive explained I dont think, once 
the scam had been reported to it, NatWest would have had an opportunity to try and recover 
any of the money that Ms Y had lost from her NatWest account. 
I do understand Ms Y has said that when she contacted NatWest the payments were 
pending. But NatWest wouldn't have been able to do anything at this stage  as Ms Y had 
made the payments to purchase the vouchers, the retailer to whom she made the payments 
was entitled to take the money.
Its very unfortunate Ms Y has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say NatWest should have done more to prevent her losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask NatWest to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman