DRN-2626332
The complaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy following cancellation of his trip. Reference to URV includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr B took out an annual travel insurance policy with URV. Later that month, 
he and Mrs B arranged a trip with intended departure and return dates of  2 April 2020 and 
30 April 2020 respectively. They booked flights and accommodation with separate providers. 
On 3 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B paid £2,000 to the accommodation provider. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination because of covid-19 
(coronavirus). That advice remained in place on Mr and Mrs Bs intended departure date. 
I understand that the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs flights and issued a refund. The 
accommodation provider said that the resort was closed due to covid-19 and that the 
accommodation costs were non-refundable. Mr B made a claim against his travel 
insurance policy. 
URV declined Mr Bs claim. It said initially that Mr Bs policy didnt cover what had 
happened here. URV then authorised settlement of the claim but subsequently changed 
its position. It said that, as the accommodation provider cancelled the booking, Mr B 
should refer to them for a refund or credit voucher, in accordance with the booking 
conditions.  
In September 2020, Mrs Bs insurer settled her claim for cancellation by payment of 
£950, which was the claim for her share of the accommodation costs, less the excess 
due under her policy. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She didnt think that URV had acted 
fairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that Mr Bs policy covers what 
happened here. She said that URV hadnt acted reasonably in asking Mr B to try and get 
a refund or credit voucher from the resort, as Mr and Mrs B hadnt booked their 
accommodation via the resort: theyd booked directly with the accommodation owner.
URV didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the booking agent hasnt followed its 
own booking terms and that it should give Mr B a refund. URV asked that an 
ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In the complaint form, Mr B referred to a second trip starting in May 2020. I understand 
that Mr B hasnt pursued that claim and as URVs final response doesnt deal with that 
trip, I dont consider it here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:  
Section A1  Cancelling your trip
What you are covered for under section A1
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for:
Travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back;
[]
We will provide this cover if the cancellation of your trip is necessary and unavoidable as a 
result of the following.
[]
7. If after the time  you booked your trip or purchased your policy, whichever is the later, 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all (but essential) travel to your 
intended destination.
[]
What you are not covered for under section A1
[]
7. Costs that have not been incurred by or on behalf of an insured person
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that URV treated Mr B fairly in declining his claim. Ill explain why.
As URVs reason for declining Mr Bs claim relates to the availability of a refund or 
credit voucher from the accommodation provider, Ive proceeded on the basis that 
URV accepts that what happened here comes within the terms and conditions of    
Mr Bs policy. 
Mr Bs policy only covers accommodation expenses which he cant get back. So, the 
central issue for me to decide is whether Mr B can get back the accommodation 
expenses from elsewhere.  
URV says that the accommodation provider is willing to rearrange the booking until 
the end of the 2021 season. Its provided a screen shot of information to that effect, 
which it says is the terms of Mr Bs booking. But Mr B didnt book his accommodation 
with the company to which URV has referred. Mr B has provided evidence that he 
booked the accommodation directly with an individual who he says is the owner of 
the property. Hes provided evidence of payment to that individual and confirmation 
that the accommodation costs are non-refundable. So, Im satisfied that Mr B cant 
recover his accommodation costs from the accommodation provider. The fact that he 
may have been able to get a voucher if he had booked the accommodation via 
another route isnt relevant here.Considering everything, I dont think that URV acted fairly in declining Mr Bs claim 
for the reason it gave. I think it should settle Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy. 
Mr Bs policy only covers costs incurred by him or on his behalf. Mrs B has recovered 
her half of the accommodation costs from her insurer. I agree with the investigator 
that URV should deal with Mr Bs share of the accommodation costs and that it isnt 
obliged to reimburse Mr B for the excess deducted from Mrs Bs settlement with her 
insurer. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, URV should settle Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy. URV must also pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from 
the date Mr B made his claim, to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires URV to take off tax from this interest. URV must give Mr B  
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if  he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Union Reiseversicherung AG should deal 
with the matter as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman