DRN-3752679
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has dealt with 
a claim she made under her home insurance policy for subsidence. 
What happened
Mrs Ps subsidence claim has been ongoing since 2019. I wont include and comment on 
everything thats happened during that time in this decision. Ill focus on the key events and 
outstanding issues, summarising where possible. 
On 22 October 2019 Mrs P contacted RSA after she noticed cracks in her conservatory wall. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the damage and carried out investigations. 
They accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and covered by the policy. 
The loss adjuster considered the subsidence problem had been caused by willow trees in 
Mrs Ps neighbours garden. They felt the roots had induced clay shrinkage. RSA have 
contacted Mrs Ps neighbours several times and have spoken to them to ask them to remove 
the trees. But the neighbours havent taken any action to date.
RSA carried out level monitoring to confirm the conservatory was stable. Once they had 
determined that it was, they arranged for a schedule of the work required to put right the 
subsidence damage. And to establish how much that would cost. 
Mrs P requested a cash settlement. RSA considered what it wouldve cost them to complete 
the repairs covered under the schedule of works. They said this was £21,182.31. Once the 
policy excess of £1,000 had been deducted, this was the offer RSA made to Mrs P. 
The offer was based on replacing the conservatory frame on the existing foundation and 
repairing 34 square metres of the surrounding paving slabs. RSA used an average cost for 
the replacement conservatory. 
Mrs P complained about the offer as she thought foundation work should be included. She 
was concerned that the conservatory was still moving. She also complained about the 
settlement amount offered and the delays she felt RSA had caused to her claim. 
Mrs P arranged for a structural engineer to carry out a visual inspection of the subsidence 
damage in March 2022.
Mrs Ps engineers said: It is clear from our inspection that the conservatory structure has 
been affected by significant foundation movement and has dropped away from the main rear 
wall of the dwelling. And: We noted Weeping Willow trees in the adjacent garden which are 
fairly close to the property and suspect that moisture demand from these trees has had a 
significant adverse effect on foundation stability, not only to the conservatory structure but 
also to the adjacent patio and retaining walls. The sub-soil in this area is a shrinkable clay 
and as such is subject to volume change when trees draw moisture from the ground in and 
around footings.
Mrs Ps engineers also noted that the damage had become progressively worse over time 
since Mrs P had first reported it to RSA. They felt that it would be a waste of time to carry out 
the repairs RSA had detailed in their schedule of works, as that would not bring about 
stability. They said trial pits should be carried out so that the foundation construction could 
be assessed. And that they felt that remedial works would be required to the foundations to 
bring about long-term stability. They suggested Mrs P asked RSA to carry out the trial pit 
investigations they felt were needed.
RSA reviewed Mrs Ps engineers report. They said it didnt take into account the fact that 
they had already carried out a site inspection, an Arboricultural report and level monitoring 
on the claim already. They said they were confident that Mrs Ps property had recovered and 
stabilised. They said this was because of their original investigations  the Arboricultural 
report and the site inspection  along with the data from the level readings. 
RSA issued their final response to the complaint on 6 May 2022. They accepted there had 
been some avoidable delays to the claim. They apologised and offered £200 compensation. 
RSA said that the conservatorys movement had been monitored over a period of time. And 
that they were satisfied that the conservatory was stable. So repairs could go ahead. They 
didnt consider any repairs to the foundations were needed. They said the repairs required 
were to the internal and external of the conservatory, replacement of the conservatory and 
external repairs to the slabs.
Mrs P was unhappy with RSAs response. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded the foundations had 
been damaged by subsidence. So didnt consider that RSA should be required to improve 
them. She felt that RSA was handling the claim correctly under the policy. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. She said the structural engineer shed appointed felt 
that the damage had been caused by unsafe foundations. She said that the fundamental 
issue was that the ground soil had been tested and was unsafe. She said that no 
conservatory could be built on that soil. She felt that RSAs settlement offer was far too low 
compared with the amount of work that needed to be done, as it didnt cover any remedial 
repairs to the foundations.
Mrs P said that RSAs loss adjusters had sent several people to investigate the soil and the 
foundations of the conservatory. And that in the meantime the conservatory deteriorated. 
Both Mrs P and her structural engineer felt that the soil was nowhere near stable enough to 
have a replacement conservatory. She wanted RSA to fairly consider her subsidence claim, 
not simply replace her conservatory. Mrs P suggested that this service arranged an 
independent review of the damage. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs P. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Before I start, Im sorry for all of the worry Mrs P has been through over her subsidence 
claim. I know it will have been a very concerning time for her.Mrs Ps main concern is that RSA havent considered the foundations within the schedule of 
work theyve produced to assess her subsidence claim. She feels like all theyre doing is 
replacing her conservatory, rather than addressing the cause of the damage, which she 
considers is related to the foundations. 
RSA say theyre confident that Mrs Ps property has recovered and stabilised. They feel the 
level monitoring theyve carried out over a period of several months evidenced this. 
From what Ive seen, RSA initially produced a preliminary technical report to assess the 
damage. They then completed a site investigation. This showed that the foundations of the 
conservatory were much deeper than those of the house. 
After this, RSA produced an addendum report. The addendum report noted that a trial hole 
was dug to expose the foundations. And a trial pit was introduced next to the conservatory 
and also to the main house. The report also noted the depth of the conservatory foundations. 
And that the subsoil was found to be silty clay which contained roots.
RSA concluded that the cause of the subsidence was root-induced clay shrinkage. And 
recommended that an Arboricultural report be produced to detail the extent of the works 
required to achieve a position of stability. 
The Arboricultural report agreed that the damage was: consistent with shrinkage of the clay 
subsoil related to moisture abstraction by vegetation. It felt that two weeping willow trees in 
Mrs Ps neighbours garden were the principal cause of the current subsidence damage. It 
recommended that one of the trees be removed and that the other be re-pollarded.  
RSA then wrote to Mrs Ps neighbours several times to ask them to quickly remove the 
willow tress they felt were causing the damage. In the meantime, Mrs P was concerned that 
the damage was getting worse. This led to her being unable to use her garden safely. 
RSA tried to carry out temporary repairs so that Mrs P could still use her garden, but their 
contractors said this wasnt possible. They continued to try to get the neighbours to remove 
their trees.
In July 2020, Mrs Ps neighbours told RSA that they werent willing to remove their trees. 
RSA felt that as this was the case, they would need to carry out level monitoring over a 
period of time. They told Mrs P that the monitoring would last for six months with the first 
couple of readings being taken monthly, and then bi-monthly. RSA also told Mrs P that her 
neighbours would be held responsible for any additional costs incurred. 
RSA said that the level monitoring showed substantial recovery between September 2020 
and March 2021. But they asked for one further level monitoring to check whether the 
neighbours willow trees were still influencing Mrs Ps property.
And in June 2021, after the final monitoring had been carried out, RSA noted that there was 
no evidence of further subsidence movement. But that it would be best to take another set of 
levels in mid/late July 2021 before potentially moving to repairs. 
After the final monitoring had been carried out, RSA said the information was passed to a 
subsidence consultant who reviewed the information and confirmed they could move to the 
repair stage.
RSAs settlement offer doesnt include any work to improve the conservatory foundations. 
Mrs P thinks such improvement is necessary. Shes concerned the conservatory foundations 
may have been damaged by subsidence. RSA have said theres no evidence of that. But Mrs P said her structural engineer felt that 
the damage had been caused by unsafe foundations. Mrs P felt that the main issue was that 
the ground soil was unsafe. 
RSA considered Mrs Ps structural engineers report. But felt that it didnt take account all of 
the tests theyd already carried out. Based on all those tests, they said they were confident 
that Mrs Ps property had recovered and stabilised. 
I can understand why Mrs P remains concerned about the issues shes been facing for such 
a long time. But from what Ive seen, RSA have carried out all the testing I wouldve 
expected them to, and theyve concluded that Mrs Ps property had stabilised. 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ps structural engineer drew a different conclusion. But he 
recommended that trial pit investigations be carried out. These have already been carried 
out by RSA. 
In my experience of subsidence claims, its unusual for the foundations to become damaged. 
The stresses caused by the movement below ground tend to be transferred through the 
foundation to the structure above ground, causing the kind of damage Mrs P has described. 
Cracking doesnt necessarily mean theres been foundations damage. Its possible, but I 
havent seen any evidence to show Mrs Ps foundations have been damaged as a result of 
subsidence. Without any such evidence, Im satisfied RSA have acted fairly on this point.
I acknowledge that Mrs P has suggested that this service arranged an independent review of 
the damage. But, based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
RSA to pay for an independent review of the damage. I say this because RSA have already 
carried out a series of tests which have confirmed that the conservatory has been stabilised. 
Overall, taking into account all the points made about the conservatory foundations, Im 
satisfied it was fair for RSA not to include the cost of improvements in their settlement offer 
to Mrs P. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman