DRN-2956105
The complaint
Mr A complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to settle his commercial 
motor insurance claim. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr A made a claim on his Haven commercial motor insurance policy. He 
had a collision with a third party whilst driving a van. Haven considered the van to be a total 
loss. But it refused to settle Mr As claim for it. It said he hadnt shown he had an insurable 
interest in the van  as he wasnt its owner. 
Haven responded to a complaint from Mr A. It said Mr A had claimed when taking out the 
policy that he was the registered keeper and owner of the van. But the vehicles registration 
documents had shown his brother to be the keeper. It said Mr A hadnt shown he was the 
owner so had been unable to provide proof he had an insurable interest in it. So it continued 
to refuse to deal with his claim. Mr A isnt happy with that. He wants Haven to settle the 
claim and to cover financial losses resulting from him being without a van. 
Our investigator said Haven hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not settling the claim. 
Mr A didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me. In July 2021 I issued a 
provisional decision for the complaint. As it forms part of this final decision Ive copied it in 
below. 
In it I explained why I didnt intend to interfere with Havens decision not to pay Mr As claim. 
I also invited him and Haven to provide any further information they would like considered 
before I issue a final decision. Haven had nothing to add. Mr A, not accepting my findings, 
provided a range of comments.   
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
interfere with Havens decision not to pay Mr As claim. 
Essentially Havens refusing to pay Mr As claim as it feels he doesnt have an 
insurable interest in it. Insurable interest is the legal right to insure something that 
arises out of a financial relationship recognised at law between the insured (in this 
case Mr A) and the subject matter of the insurance (the van). 
The van was subject to a finance arrangement. It seems that was in the name of 
Mr As brothers limited company. Its not disputed that the brother made the finance 
payments. Its accepted the van was registered at some point in Mr As name.
From what Ive seen Havens been given different explanations of Mr As relationship 
with the van. Mr A hasnt denied he said, when applying for cover, that he was the 
registered keeper and owner. Looking at the information provided by Haven Im 
satisfied that he did. During the claim he seems to have initially told Haven he bought 
the van from his brother. He said he pays his brother monthly for the purchase. 
But Havens records show Mr As brother as explaining that hes the owner of the 
van. He said Mr A doesnt pay him anything for it. He explained that the van was 
registered in Mr As name because that was required for his employment. After that 
Mr A and his brother provided Haven with a signed agreement dated from before the 
claim. This says the pair agreed for Mr A to hire the van for a monthly fee. 
Haven asked to see some evidence of Mr A having made payments to his brother for 
the van. Its records show him saying that wouldnt be possible as he paid by cash. 
But a few months later he told this service he hadnt made any payments.
Considering whats been provided its fair to say Mr A wasnt the owner of the van 
when taking out the cover or at the time of the collision. However, insurable interest 
isnt restricted to just the owner of an insured item. There are other possible 
relationships that create an insurable interest  including bailment for example. 
Bailment comes about when property is delivered by a person to another for a 
particular purpose but without a transfer of ownership. I accept its possible Mr A had 
that type of relationship with the van. But even if I felt he did I still wouldnt say 
Havens decision not to pay his claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
Ive seen some of Havens underwriting criteria. Having considered it Im satisfied the 
insurer wouldnt have offered Mr A cover at all if he had given, when taking out the 
policy, an accurate explanation of his relationship with the van. That would have 
included explaining that the van was subject to a finance agreement in his brothers 
limited companys name  and that his brother (presumably on behalf of his limited 
company) had allowed him to borrow it. 
Considering Haven wouldnt have provided cover if it had been aware of the true 
relationship, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require it to pay Mr As 
claim for damage to the van.    
Mr As complained that Haven told him it had repaired the van only for him to later 
find out that was a mistake  it had actually been deemed a total loss. Even if that did 
happen, I wouldnt require Haven to pay him compensation. Ultimately, I cant see 
what difference it would have made to him when I feel it didnt doing do anything 
wrong by not dealing with his claim.  
Haven returned the damaged van to the finance company who then sold it. Mr As 
unhappy about that. He wants the van returned to him. Haven says it tried to contact 
him before passing the van to the finance company  who it considers the legal 
owner  but didnt get a response. I cant say Haven acted unfairly or unreasonably 
there.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I havent responded here to each point Mr As made in 
response to my provisional decision. But Id like to reassure him Ive considered everything 
hes said. I accept this will come as a great disappoint to him, but his latest information hasnt changed my position. Im not going to interfere with Havens decision not to pay his 
claim.  
Its unfortunate that Mr A is struggling to meet his brothers demands around replacing the 
van. But that doesnt mean Havens decision was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr A denies that Haven tried to contact him before returning the van to the finance company 
 who it considered the vehicles legal owner. But even if I agreed that Haven hadnt tried to 
contact him, I still wouldnt say it had caused him to lose out. 
The van was a total loss. It seems its salvage was sold by the finance company. Its likely 
the proceeds were deducted from the finance balance  meaning Mr As brother had to 
repay less to the finance company  and any debt of Mr As to his brother was reduced. If 
that didnt happen then thats something for Mr As brother to discuss with the finance 
company. I cant consider it in this complaint against Haven. 
The vehicle was considered unroadworthy. It required almost £10,000 of repairs. I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that the financial outcome for Mr A would have been better if 
the van had been returned to him.   
Mr A says hes being asked to pay for the cover even though Haven hasnt paid his claim. 
Ive already said I dont think that decision was unfair. It seems Havens settled a reasonably 
sized claim from a third party involved in the collision. Considering that I cant say its unfair 
that Mr As required to pay the premiums for his policy. If hes unhappy about the manner in 
which his insurance broker has asked him to make payment them he could consider making 
a complaint to that business.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not requiring Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr As claim or do anything differently.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman