DRN-3028827
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2001. Mr 
B says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading at the time as Chelsea Building Society, 
mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to YBS throughout this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (including Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions) arent 
disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought YBSs subsequent offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr B paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided YBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
It seems Mr S took out the policy the year following him taking out his mortgage. This means 
hed operated his mortgage without PPI for quite a few months. I therefore think it was clear 
enough that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out because he 
thought it was something he wanted to have, to help protect him from the consequences of 
losing his job or becoming too ill to work. Ive seen the application form he filled out where he 
specifically selected a level of cover he wanted. 
So whilst I can accept that Mr B may genuinely feel now that the PPI was mis-sold to him, it 
looks much more to me like it was something he wanted to have at the time. In my view, 
YBS properly obtained his consent.
YBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B as part of an advised sale, so it was for Mr B 
to check for himself that the PPI was right for his situation. YBSs responsibility was to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Its certainly possible the information YBS gave to Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been. But the paperwork he was given does look quite comprehensive to me and 
I think he knew the costs and what was covered. I see, for example, that the welcome letter 
set out the monthly premium costs and also what / who was covered by the PPI policy. 
Overall, I think he probably had enough information on which to make an informed decision 
about what he wanted to do. 
I also think the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from 
the information he was most likely given at the point of sale. At around £10 per month, it also 
looks like it was affordable for him and useful if something went wrong. 
Mr S was also eligible for the cover and he didnt have job-related protection against 
sickness, or other means to fall back on if something went wrong. He had a mortgage 
secured against his home. The PPI, on the other hand, would have paid out up to £218 per 
month for up to a year if successfully claimed on, so I can see how it would have been of 
use. 
Ive considered with care whats been said about Mr Bs job and how long hed been in it. 
Ive also looked at whats been said about his medical history. However, I found this 
information somewhat inconsistent and in any event, it doesnt change my overall view. Mr B 
seems to have been in his job for longer that he originally remembered and the illnesses 
seem to either pre-date the sale by some years  or post-date it. So I dont think Mr B would 
have acted differently even if I accept that YBS could have done a better job at explaining 
things during the sale. I think the evidence is strong that he specifically wanted the PPI. 
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided YBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
YBS didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account what Ive been told: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
YBS and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because YBS 
didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think YBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: YBS failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr B wouldnt have taken out the policy had he 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcommission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by YBS not disclosing the high level of 
commission before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for YBSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for YBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr B paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr B with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would still have taken out if YBS had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that YBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the 
complaint or make any award in favour of Mr B for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman