DRN-1592644
 
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint was that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), 
irresponsibly lent to him. He is dissatisfied with the offer Lending Stream has made.
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr T.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint as she agreed the loans shouldnt have been given 
because of Mr Ts financial circumstances and which Lending Stream was aware of. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Lending Stream agreed to make an offer for 
both of the loans. This included a refund of interest and charges Mr T had incurred on the 
lending plus statutory interest at 8% for the time he had been out of pocket. 
Mr T accepted the offer but said he also wanted a gesture of goodwill payment of £50. He 
said this was for the stress, financial hardship and inconvenience caused to him in bringing 
the complaint. 
Our adjudicator considered the points made by Mr T but didnt agree there was enough 
evidence to include a gesture of goodwill payment. Our adjudicator concluded that Lending 
Streams offer was in-line with her recommendation and it was still available to Mr T.
Mr T replied and said he still wanted the complaint decided by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When Mr T brought his complaint to this service the resolution he wanted was for a refund of 
the interest and charges on the two loans hed taken, plus statutory interest and any 
negative information about the lending to be removed from his credit file.
Our adjudicator agreed the lending shouldnt have been given and Lending Stream agreed. 
The offer it made was in-line with the adjudicators recommendations. As the complaint 
about the two loans has been resolved, I wont be making any findings about that but for 
completeness, I agree with the outcome.
Mr T has said he wants an additional goodwill payment for the upset he was caused in 
bringing his complaint. 
In any relationship between a consumer and a financial business errors and dissatisfaction 
can and do arise. And when that happens, and the consumer complains, we would expect 
the business to treat the consumer fairly and resolve the complaint in a timely manner.Ive reviewed the file and can see there was some delay at the beginning of the complaint 
process because of an incorrect email address. The initial complaint was sent to Lending 
Stream on 6 May 2019 with some further emails after that in an attempt at sending it to the 
correct address. Mr T then brought his complaint to this service on 7 July 2019. And I note 
Lending Stream sent its final response to the complaint on 26 August 2019.
But with the exception of this, I cant see there was any hardship caused over and above 
having to make a complaint in the first instance. And I think Lending Stream has been fair 
and handled the complaint as we would expect. In its final response it addressed Mr Ts 
complaint points and gave him its answer, albeit an answer with which Mr T didnt agree, 
hence him bringing his complaint to this service. This resulted in Lending Stream agreeing 
with our adjudicators recommendation and offering to pay the redress that Mr T had asked 
for at the outset. 
So, like the adjudicator, I dont think there is evidence of unnecessary stress, hardship or 
inconvenience being caused to Mr T by Lending Stream other than him participating in the 
usual process of making a complaint. It follows that I dont agree an additional payment is 
due to Mr T. 
I think what Lending Stream has offered as compensation for the two loans is fair and I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. The offer made by Lending Stream is still available to Mr T, 
and he needs to decide if he wants to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Lending Streams offer of redress is fair. I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. Mr T needs to decide if he wants to accept the offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman