DRN-2939077
The complaint
Ms F complains that a mobile handset acquired with finance from Sky UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms F was supplied with a new phone and entered into a finance agreement 
with Sky. The agreement was for the provision of a handset and was payable over a term of 
36 months at £26.83 for 24 months followed by £18 for 12 months.
Ms F experienced issues getting a signal and found that she was unable to make or receive 
calls. She complained to Sky and it sent her new sim cards to try and resolve the issue, but 
this didnt work.
In May 2021 Ms F contacted Sky and said she was having to hang out of the window to 
receive a signal. Sky suggested that she purchase a used handset and return her handset 
for inspection and (if necessary) repair. Sky agreed to meet the costs of a used handset. Ms 
F wasnt happy to do this.
Ms F entered into a contract with another provider and asked Sky to cancel the agreement. 
Sky refused. It said that it had contracted to supply Ms F with a handset and that there was 
nothing to suggest that the handset was faulty.
Ms F remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he couldnt ask Sky to take the phone 
back and cancel the agreement because there was no evidence that the phone was faulty or 
of unsatisfactory quality.
Ms F didnt agree. She didnt think the impact of not having a working phone for several 
months had been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement which Ms F entered into with Sky. It states that the agreement 
is for the provision of a handset.
Ive had regard to the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This implies a term into the agreement 
that the handset is of satisfactory quality. A handset is of satisfactory quality if it is of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the description of the goods and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness 
for purpose, appearance, safety and durability.
Ive taken account of everything Ms F has said. I understand how frustrating it mustve been 
to be unable to get a signal. Based on what Ive seen, Sky took reasonable steps to try and 
get the issue resolved for Ms F. But ultimately, there was no evidence to suggest that the 
issue which Ms F was experiencing was caused by a fault with the handset.
Ms F has said that she had the handset checked in a Sky shop and no faults were found. 
She accepts that there isnt a fault but has explained that she cant afford to continue paying 
for this handset under the agreement with Sky, and for a handset under another agreement 
which she took out with another provider (which is providing her with a reliable signal and 
service). 
The issue to determine here is whether the handset supplied by Sky was of satisfactory 
quality. Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that it wasnt. So, theres no 
grounds for me to ask Sky to take the handset back for repair or replacement, or to require 
Sky to cancel the agreement.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms F. She will remain 
responsible for making payments under the finance agreement until the sum borrowed is 
paid in full. In the meantime, I can only suggest that Ms F approaches Sky to make sure it is 
aware of her financial difficulties.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman