DRN-3815370
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) closed his account.
Background
In July 2021, Halifax notified Mr A that it no longer wished to offer him an account and 
explained that it would be closing it. Mr A was unhappy with this and complained. Halifax 
didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And Halifax decided it no longer wished to 
have Mr A as a customer. Closing a customers account is a commercial decision that a 
bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision. 
Equally, having looked at matters Im also satisfied that Halifax was entitled to take the 
action it did in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As accounts.
I know that Mr A is unhappy that his direct debits ended up being unpaid once his account 
was closed. I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr A to see that his direct 
debits werent paid. But Mr A was given notice that his account was being closed and this 
notice was provided to enable him to make alternative arrangements with another bank for 
his direct debits. As Mr A was provided with sufficient notice to make alternative 
arrangements, Im satisfied that Halifax did what it was required to here. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly towards     
Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think Halifax hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman