DRN-3864924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against a 
group private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs T and their son are beneficiaries of a group private 
medical insurance policy with BUPA. Theres an annual limit of £1,200 for each member  
for out-patient consultations, therapies and diagnostic tests. 
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs T made a claim against the policy in relation to treatment for 
their son. BUPA authorised the claim. It paid the claim up to the annual limit, leaving    
Mr and Mrs T with a shortfall of £290.
Mr and Mrs T says that BUPA didnt make them aware that it had authorised treatment in 
excess of the annual allowance. They say that BUPAs authorisation text is misleading 
as it said that there was no need to call back to authorise items separately. Mr and Mrs T 
think that BUPA is misleading members by giving them a false sense of security that 
treatment will be covered. They wants BUPA to cover the shortfall of £290.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ts membership 
certificate sets out the annual limit of £1,200 for out-patient treatment and the 
membership guide makes it clear that whilst BUPA will pay for eligible treatment, any 
costs not covered under the benefits are the members responsibility. 
The investigator looked at BUPAs pre-authorisation text and didnt think it was 
misleading. She said that when Mrs T phoned BUPA on 8 August 2022, she was 
informed correctly that BUPA would cover certain tests and a follow-up consultation from 
the out-patient allowance, of which there was £950 remaining. The investigator said that 
BUPA wouldnt necessarily know the prices of consultations and tests and its for the 
member to obtain cost information from the provider before proceeding.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs T responded to say that the 
investigator hadnt captured the main subject matter of her complaint, which is the 
misleading process. Mr and Mrs T asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, 
so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs T have very strong feelings about this 
matter. They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have 
read and considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a worrying 
time into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be 
informal. Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that               
Mr and Mrs T will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issue, that is whether BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of the claim.       
the relevant terms and conditions
The membership guide includes the following: 
Payment of benefits
We only pay benefits for treatment you receive while you are covered under the 
agreement and we only pay benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you on 
the date the treatment takes place. We do not pay for any treatment, including any 
treatment we have pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover ends. 
When you receive private medical treatment you have a contract with the providers of your 
treatment. You are responsible for the costs you incur in having private treatment. 
However, if your treatment is eligible treatment we pay the costs that are covered under 
your benefits. Any costs including eligible treatment costs, that are not covered under your 
benefits are your sole responsibility. []
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think 
that BUPA treated them unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Mr and Mrs T are responsible for the costs incurred in their son having private 
treatment. However, if the treatment is eligible treatment, BUPA pays the costs that 
are covered under the benefits and in accordance with the terms of cover. Any costs 
not covered under the benefits are Mr and Mrs Ts responsibility. I think thats set out 
clearly in the membership guide. 
When BUPA authorised the treatment it referred to the membership certificate which 
it said showed any excess and the policy limits. Ive looked at the authorisation text 
about which Mr and Mrs T complain and I dont think its misleading. Theres nothing 
in that text to indicate that BUPA would pay the claim in excess of the membership 
limits.  
In the subsequent phone call, BUPA told Mrs T that it would pay from the out-patient 
allowance and referred to the remaining allowance of £950. During the course of the 
claim, BUPA sent Mr T statements showing what it had paid and the remaining 
balance to be paid by Mr and Mrs T. 
As the investigator explained, BUPA wouldnt necessarily know the cost of the 
treatment Mr and Mrs Ts son was about to have. 
Mr and Mrs T think that the process is misleading, but Ive looked at how BUPA 
handled their claim and Im afraid I dont agree. I think that BUPA provided 
information that was clear. I appreciate that this was a very stressful time, and it was 
difficult for Mr and Mrs T to keep track of the treatment and costs, but I dont think 
that BUPA misled Mr and Mrs T. 
Considering everything, theres no basis on which I could direct BUPA to settle the 
claim in excess of the benefit limit.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman