DRN-2693591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2009. In 2010, they took out another 
PPI policy to cover a further advance. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI with regular monthly 
premiums, which didnt attract interest. The policies covered them in case either one or both 
were off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds a provisional decision on 2 March 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can see that in both sales, Mr and Mrs W were recommended each policy  and this was 
only a recommendation, not a requirement, which they were free to accept or turn down. Its 
recorded that they accepted the recommendation on each occasion. Then they signed and 
submitted an application specifically for each policy, separately to applying for the lending 
itself. And they set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI each time  the policies were not part 
and parcel of the lending. Further, their key facts and mortgage offer documents both 
reiterated that they didnt have to buy any insurance from Lloyds if they didnt want to. So 
I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice about buying 
each policy, and that they chose to take them at the time  though I can understand if they 
no longer recall doing so after so long. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check each policy was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits 
and offered them more comprehensive cover, especially for when their benefits reduced to 
just a fraction of their normal pay or ran out. And ultimately, if theyd fallen behind on their 
mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the cover could have really been useful for them 
in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But on its own, that doesnt necessarily mean that the policies were mis-
sold. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs W chose to take out each policy, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any 
of the main things the policies didnt cover, and the PPI couldve really been useful for them 
in case something went wrong. The policies were competitively priced given how much they 
would pay out in a claim. And the policies were paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and 
Mrs W could cancel them at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
17 March 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs W nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think these particular policies 
were mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman