DRN-3244660
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) following the return of his car.
What happened
On 6 April 2016, Mr E was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £3,184.42, and the agreement was for £27,844.89; 
with 47 monthly payments of £356.90, and a final optional payment of £16,981.25 if he 
wanted to purchase the car. The agreement permitted 7,000 miles a year, with any excess 
mileage being charged at 7.2 pence a mile.
Mr E voluntarily terminated the agreement, and, on 24 January 2020, the car was collected. 
At the time of collection, the car was also inspected for damage by the collection agent. 
Following this, VWFS charged Mr E £570.41 for exceeding the allowed mileage, and 
£1,934.50 for damage to the car that fell outside of reasonable wear and tear.
Mr E complained to VWFS about these charges. VWFS waived some of the damage 
charges; but they thought the remaining charges were fair. Mr E wasnt happy with VWFSs 
response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation. While the complaint was 
being investigated, VWFS agreed to waive the excess mileage charges.
Our investigator said that, under the agreement Mr E signed, VWFS are entitled to charge 
for damage to the car that falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines are issued by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mr E was disputing the charges for damage to the front bumper, the left-hand front wing, the 
right-hand rear quarter panel, and the wheels. The investigator thought that all this damage 
fell outside of the BVRLA guidelines, so it was fair for VWFS to charge for this. 
Mr E thought he should only be charged for front bumper repair and not a replacement part. 
But the investigator thought the damage was such that VWFS acted reasonably by charging 
for a replacement. Mr E also thought that VWFS should only charge for a cold metal repair to 
the right-hand front wing. But the investigator said, because the damage was on a swage 
line and not a flat surface, then this type of repair wasnt possible.
Mr E also disputed the charges for the damage to the wheels, as VWFS hadnt charged his 
wife for wheels with more damage when she returned her car to them. But the investigator 
explained we can only consider the damage to Mr Es car. And this fell outside the BVRLA 
guidelines. So, the investigator said VWFS had acted reasonably by charging for the 
damage to the car.
Mr E didnt agree. While he said that he now accepted the charges for the bumper and front 
wing, he only thought that the damage to one wheel fell outside the BVRLA guidelines. And 
he didnt accept that the damage to the quarter panel was outside the guidelines either. He 
also said that, if hed been allowed to be witness to the inspection, he couldve challenged 
the damage at that point. And not being able to do so has caused him some frustration.
Mr E provided photographs of the wheels to support his arguments. But the investigator said 
these didnt change his view. So, Mr E asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr E was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr E signed on 6 April 2016. This clearly says Mr E was 
required to keep the vehicle in good repair and condition, commensurate with its age and 
mileage. It also said Mr E would be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the 
Vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of 
the vehicle. So, Im satisfied that Mr E wouldve been reasonably aware of his obligations 
under the agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the collection agents inspection report. This details damage to all 
four wheels, the front and rear bumpers, the left-hand front wing, the tailgate, and the right-
hand rear quarter panel. As the only damage still in dispute is that to the quarter panel and 
to the wheels, my decision will focus on this.
quarter panel
The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that dents of 15mm or less are acceptable 
providing there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. 
The photographs supplied with the inspection report clearly shows a dent in the quarter 
panel. And, from what I can see, the measurement tool in the photograph shows the dent to 
be around 17mm in width. Because of this, Im satisfied that this damage falls outside of the 
fair wear and tear guidelines, and VWFS can charge for this.
wheels
The BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines say that scuffs of up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel rim are acceptable. 
The photographs supplied with the inspection report show scuffing and/or scratching to all 
four wheels. From what I can see, Im satisfied this damage exceeds a total of 50mm on 
each wheel. From the photographs supplied by Mr E, its not clear which wheel is in which 
photograph. But Im also satisfied that these photographs show the same damage to the 
rims of each of the wheels.Mr E has raised the issue of similar damage to the wheels on his wifes car not being 
charged by VWFS. However, my decision is concerned with the damage to Mr Es car. And, 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage to the wheels is outside of the fair 
wear and tear guidelines. So VWFS have acted reasonably by charging Mr E for this.
Mr E has also said that he wasnt allowed to witness the inspection. And, had he been 
allowed to, then he wouldve challenged the damage at that point. As I wasnt present at the 
inspection, I cant say why Mr E wasnt allowed to witness the inspection. But, had he done 
so, I dont think it wouldve made any material difference  there were elements of the 
damage Mr E wasnt happy with, and both the collections agent and VWFS said it was 
present. So, Mr E would always have been unhappy with the contents of the report. And not 
witnessing the inspection hasnt affected his ability to challenge this.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, I wont 
be asking VWFS to reduce or waive any of the damage charges.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman