DRN-4095785
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused access to his money.  The 
account was in the names of Mr B and Ms H, but I will refer to Mr B as the complainant here.
What happened
Mr B had a joint account in the name of himself and his mother. In November 2021, the 
balance was £20,000 credit. In May 2022, there was a withdrawal of £6,500, leaving a 
balance of £13,500 credit.
Barclays wrote to Mr B in November 2021 to say they had decided to close the account as 
the joint account holder (Mr Bs mother) lived outside the EEA (European Economic Area).
On 25 February 2022, Barclays wrote to say they wanted the account to be closed.
On 26 May 2022, Barclays wrote to say there hadnt been a response and the account would 
be closed on 12 June 2022.
On 22 June 2022, the account was closed by Barclays. The balance was held in a secure 
central account.
On 1 July 2022, Mr B contacted Barclays to ask for the funds to be paid.
On 27 February 2023, Barclays paid the balance of £13,500 to Mr B.
Mr B complained. He said Barclays closed the account and denied him access to the money. 
He said he would pursue a civil action for compensation. He said the account was instant 
access and he was being denied that. He wanted interest paid at the rate of inflation.
In September 2022, Barclays said they had written to Mr B on 26 November 2021 to say 
they were closing the account because they were restricting services to customers with an 
EEA address. Reminder letters were sent on 25 February 2022 and 26 May 2022. The 
account was closed on 22 June 2022. After Mr B contacted Barclays, they sent to him a 
letter and reclaim form on 1 July 2022, but he hadnt returned it. Barclay said they were not 
restricting access but they needed to receive Mr Bs instructions as to where to send the 
money  and wanted the signatures of both parties to the account.
Mr B brought the complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted reasonably. Barclays 
had made a business decision to close accounts where the second account holder lived 
outside the EEA. Barclays had sent Mr B three letters between November 2021 and May 
2022 about this. Had Mr B moved the funds before the account was closed (on 22 June 
2022), then dual signatures or consent wouldnt have been needed. But as it was, because 
Mr B asked for the money after that time, he needed to send an authority to Barclays to do 
that. He didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint; and so it has come to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B asked his solicitors to write to Barclays  but he told us that legal 
proceedings havent been started. Its important to say this  because our service cannot 
look at a complaint if another body (such as the courts) are also considering it.
Ive seen Mr Bs comments to our investigator  so let me say at the outset that we are not a
consumer group  we dont take sides. We listen to both sides of a complaint, take evidence
from both parties, and then decide on a fair and reasonable outcome  for both parties. We
are an independent body.
Barclays made a commercial decision to close accounts where one or more account holder 
lived outside the EEA  we cant challenge Barclays business decision here, as its not part 
of our role to do so.
I appreciate where Mr B is coming from  he wanted to get his money back quickly, and 
because of the process to reclaim the money, this was going to take some time  given that 
Barclays asked for both signatures of himself and his mother  who lived in another country.
I wanted to be sure that Mr B was given the opportunity to close his account and that 
communications were clear. 
I can see that Barclays wrote to him several times and gave him a reasonable notice to 
make the withdrawals himself before the closure. On 26 November 2021, they wrote We're 
applying limitations to the banking services we provide to customers with an address in the 
European Economic Area (EEA)'. We're sorry to say this means we need you to close your 
account. At least one of the addresses we currently have for you. or someone on your 
account, is in the European Economic Area. If you can't provide addresses in the UK, 
you'll need to bring your account balances to zero and close your accounts by 12 June 
2022. So  Barclays gave Mr B six months notice of what was to happen  which was 
reasonable.
On 25 February 2022, Barclays wrote again to say they hadnt heard from Mr B and the 
letter said If you can't provide addresses in the UK, you'll need to bring your account 
balances to zero and close your accounts by 12 June 2022 If you haven't closed your 
accounts, given us an address In the UK or received confirmation an exception applies to 
you by 12 June 2022, unfortunately we'll need to close the accounts on or shortly after 20 
June 2022. We really want to avoid doing this so please do take action before then.
On 26 May 2022, Barclays wrote Please take urgent action: we need you to close your 
account Unless we hear from you by 12 June 2022 we'll close your accounts on 20 June 
2022 We'll move any remaining credit balance to a secure central account for you where it 
will continue to earn interest if your account offers it, until you reclaim it from us...
Ive considered Barclays communications - and I think they were clear and not misleading.
 Mr B was given reasonable notice about what was to happen, and what he needed to do to 
close his account. And what would happen if he didnt do that. I note that there was a 
withdrawal of £6,500 in May 2022  and he could have gone on to withdraw the balance of 
£13,5000 before the account was closed on 22 June 2022, but he didnt. Therefore, Barclays closed the account and put the balance to a central account. This was in 
line with what Barclays had said theyd do in their letters. Mr B contacted Barclays on 1 July 
2022 to ask for the money. Barclays told him So we can pay the remaining balance to 
you.we'll need full bank details of the account you would like the funds to be refunded 
toAs per our process we would need [joint account holders name] signature in the pay out 
instruction page. This was clear and in line with what Barclays had advised earlier.
When Barclays wrote to Mr B on 5 September 2022, they hadnt received the signed 
repayment form. They included another copy  which was reasonable.
I wanted to be sure about why Barclays wanted both signatures on the form - as the account 
was either to sign. They showed us their operating instructions for reclaiming balances in 
such circumstances and these say both signatures are needed. We asked Barclays why that 
was  and they showed us their process for reclaiming the money in these circumstances. 
These say that both signatures are needed for joint accounts. This is to protect depositors. I 
think this is reasonable  as it is the case that where an account has become dormant  as 
happened here  there is an increased risk of financial crime, or the money being accessed 
by other persons.
As it was, Barclays paid the money to Mr B on 27 February 2023  Barclays told us they did 
that in view of the age of the claim, which I think is reasonable under the circumstances. And 
it actually did what Mr B wanted to do when he asked for the money to be withdrawn.
Therefore, in the circumstances of this case, my decision is that Barclays dont have to do 
anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman