DRN-3365471
The complaint
An organisation that Ill refer to as C has complained that Towergate Underwriting Group
Limited provided incorrect information to the insurer at the renewal of its staff absence
insurance policy which resulted in claims not being covered.
Mr B has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a staff absence insurance policy through Towergate, who are an intermediary. Cs
policy was due for renewal on 19 March 2020.
Towergate said they sent renewal documents to C in advance of 19 March but didnt receive
instructions to renew. Following 19 March, Towergate let C know that it could still renew the
policy but would need to do so immediately.
C said the first discussion it had with Towergate about the renewal was on 31 March. C said
it told Towergate that it had claims to make for staff shielding due to Covid-19 and was
reassured by Towergate that these claims would be covered. C said that, in response to
their conversation, Towergate sent a Covid-19 Q&A factsheet and said they would need to
check whether a separate shielding claim C had also told them about would be covered.
C instructed Towergate to renew its policy on 1 April. Less than an hour later, C sent
Towergate a staff list setting out the claims it wanted to make against the policy.
There was some delay in this information being forwarded to the insurer. However, the
insurer ultimately said that these claims werent covered as they hadnt been disclosed at the
point of renewal.
C complained to Towergate. It said it had disclosed the claims to Towergate during the call
on 31 March and had proceeded with the renewal on the basis that the claims would be
covered.
Towergate said the renewal letter of 3 March made it clear that any ongoing claims, or
anything that could lead to a claim, should be declared. Towergate said they sent the same
information to C again on 31 March and C didnt disclose the claims.
Towergate apologised for the delay in presenting the claims to the insurer and offered £300
compensation. However, they said the delay didnt affect the outcome of the claims as they
hadnt been disclosed at renewal. Towergate also said that, if C had disclosed the ongoing
claims, the cost of the policy would have increased by £18,000, which was more than the
value of the claims.
Unhappy with Towergates response, C brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think
C had disclosed the claims so didnt think Towergate had done anything wrong. He also said
that, in any event, there had been no financial loss to C from Towergates actions as the cost
of the policy with cover would have exceeded the value of Cs claims.
C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had disclosed the claims in
the call with Towergate and, if it had been told there would be such an increase in the cost of
the policy, it wouldnt have renewed with Towergate.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2022 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to reach a fair and reasonable decision on this complaint its been necessary for me
to consider whether C told Towergate about its ongoing claims and if it did, whether any
error by Towergate caused C a loss it wouldnt have otherwise had.
An email from C to Towergate on 1 April refers to a recent phone call. C said it wanted to
go ahead with the renewal, to include cover for Covid-19, following that call. Less than an
hour later, C forwarded Towergate a list of the claims it wanted to make. Towergate have
said the call on 31 March wasnt recorded. This is unhelpful and its difficult as a result to
know exactly what was said, but C clearly understood from the call that its claims would be
covered.
I think Cs following actions are consistent with it having disclosed the claims in the call on
31 March to Towergate. However, I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on
whether C did disclose the ongoing claims. I say that because in order for me to fairly require
Towergate to compensate C for any losses caused by an error, Id need to be satisfied that
any error caused C a loss. In this case I dont think C has demonstrated that any error would
have caused it a loss.
Cs policy cost around £3,000 at renewal. Towergate have provided evidence showing that,
if C had informed of the ongoing absences, the cost of the policy would have increased by
around £18,000. Towergate said that, as it would have cost C more to buy the policy than it
would have gained from the claim, there isnt a financial loss.
C has questioned whether the premium would have increased by £18,000 but I have
considered the evidence provided by Towergate, showing how each claim increased the
premium, and Im persuaded about the extent of the likely premium increase.
I asked C for anything to show that it would have been able to obtain a policy which provided
cover for these claims at a lower cost, but C wasnt able to provide anything.
On the basis of this evidence, I dont think C has been able to demonstrate that it suffered a
loss as a result of Towergates actions, and it follows that I dont think I can fairly uphold this
complaint.
Towergate didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. C 
was unhappy with the provisional decision as it still thought it was improbable that the cost of 
the policy would have increased by the amount quoted. It said it had been offered renewal in 
March 2021 at around £6,000 with the insurer already having paid out several claims relating 
to Covid-19, so it didnt think two claims at the point of renewal in 2020 would have made 
such a difference.
Following Cs comments, Towergate have confirmed that the reason the premium is lower in 2021 is because these claims are no longer ongoing and because cover for Covid-19 has 
been removed. Towergate said that while it may have been possible to look for an 
alternative quote this wasnt standard practice at the time of Cs renewal in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the points C has made but Im not persuaded to depart from 
my provisional decision. Thats because I havent seen enough to fairly conclude that even if 
Towergate made an error that C would have been able to buy a policy for less than the value 
of the claims. Therefore, Im not persuaded that its suffered a financial loss from any error 
Towergate might have made.
I recognise this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered everything very 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman