The complaint
Mrs T complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance ("PPI") policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in
this decision.
What happened
Mrs T took out a store card in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which
would've helped cover her repayments on the card if she wasn't able to work. It also
provided life cover and purchase and price protection.
Mrs T says she wasn't aware that the PPI had been added to her account.
The adjudicator who first looked at Mrs T's case thought her complaint should be upheld,
because AXA didn't provide her with enough information about the cost. The adjudicator
thought that because Mrs T had good benefits from her employer she wouldn't have bought
the PPI if she understood the cost better.
AXA disagreed. It provided evidence that Mrs T had told them something different about her
employment and benefits. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Having reviewed the evidence I concluded that Mrs T's complaint shouldn't be upheld. I 
issued a provisional decision to that effect in May 2020. I invited comment from both parties. 
Neither party responded with anything new for me to consider. So I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im considering not holding this
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs T's application form. It has a separate section for PPI and it
offers a clear choice. Mrs T has signed in the box to say that she wanted it. So although Mrs 
T doesn't remember this nearly 17 years later, I'm satisfied Mr T bought the PPI knowing she 
had a choice about it.
DRN-1930635AXA didn't give Mrs T a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didn't have to make
sure it was right for her. But AXA did have responsibility to ensure Mrs T got all the
information she needed to make her decision about buying the PPI. I cant be satisfied that
AXA did this well enough. In particular, I dont think AXA made the cost clear enough to Mrs
T. The application form Mrs T completed makes no mention of how much the policy would
cost or that the cost of the PPI would be added to the balance on the store card and would
attract interest.
But this doesn't mean I should automatically uphold Mrs T's complaint. I need to consider
whether Mrs T would have acted differently and not bought the policy if she'd had all the
information she needed.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs T wouldn't have bought it. This was because Mrs T had
given us details of her employee benefits which meant that she probably would have been
able to meet her repayments even if she wasn't able to work.
But AXA provided evidence to show that Mrs T had told them something different. We asked 
Mrs T about this through her representative, but we didn't get a response. So I can't safely 
rely on what Mrs T told us about her employee benefits.
Looking at the rest of Mrs T's circumstances I think that it's reasonable to think she would
have bought the policy. Mrs T was eligible for the cover and wasn't affected by any terms
which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. She had limited benefits from her
employer if she was off sick and no other means to meet her repayments if she wasn't
working.
While the cost of the policy was greater than other policies on the market around the same
time, it offered a greater benefit and could have paid off Mrs T's outstanding balance within a 
few months. The policy was flexible as it could be cancelled without penalty at any time. And 
I haven't seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs T.
So I don't think Mrs T lost out because of anything AXA did wrong.
My final decision
I'm not upholding Mrs T's complaint so it follows that AXA France IARD doesn't have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman