DRN-3304599
The complaint
Ms H complains she was misled by Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages 
about the likelihood of her being able to port her mortgage with it. She says this led to her 
deciding not to remortgage with another lender and benefit from a lower interest rate.
What happened
In 2005, Ms H took a mortgage with Northern Rock for approximately £214,000 on an 
interest only basis over approximately 23 years. This was on a fixed rate for two years 
before moving to the lenders standard variable rate  with a loyalty discount applying to the 
rate after 7 years, subject to conditions being met. Ms H applied on a self-cert basis, 
meaning she was required to declare her income on application but supply no proof of it. 
She says she did that because much of her income was derived from her let property 
portfolio. The mortgage was sold to Heliodor in November 2019.
Ms H has explained that, due to rule changes, self-cert mortgages ceased to be available. 
That meant she was unable to obtain the same level of borrowing with another lender for a 
remortgage or a new purchase. And, as Northern Rocks successor lenders were closed 
book  meaning they were unable to offer new products to either new or existing borrowers 
 she was unable to obtain a rate any lower than the loyalty discounted standard variable 
rate. 
Ms H says  in telephone conversations in August 2017  she was led to believe she would 
be able to port her mortgage at the same level and that process wouldnt be subject to her 
proving affordability. Instead, her porting application would be subject to other criteria, such 
as her payment history. She says that information dissuaded her from applying to other 
lenders at that time. Following conversations with Heliodor in 2020, which, she says, gave 
contradictory information, she remortgaged with another lender, securing a lower rate. Ms H 
says, if she hadnt received incorrect information in 2017, she would have moved lender 
then. And, as a result, shes now out of pocket because she was subject to the higher 
interest rate with Heliodor since her calls with it in 2017.
In her complaint to Heliodor, Ms H explained the above. Heliodor wrote to her with its final 
response on 24 September 2020. It said, having listened to recordings of conversations in 
2017 and 2020 it didnt agree Ms H was misinformed and so couldnt agree that it was 
responsible for her not reducing her mortgage balance or remortgaging with another lender. 
And it said Ms H was not advised to keep her mortgage at the same level or not to 
remortgage to another lender. With specific regard to porting, Heliodor said Ms H was told 
during the 2017 conversations, if its assessment did not evidence affordability it may be able 
to consider other factors such as account conduct. But it also stressed an agreement was 
not guaranteed.
Unsatisfied with Heliodors response Ms H asked us to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. She said Ms Hs mortgage offer of 2005 
confirms that porting would be subject to a new application which would need to be 
approved by the lender. And it confirms that borrow back is subject to agreement from the 
lender.
Our investigator explained that shed listened to call recordings from 2017 and 2018. In 
those calls she heard that Ms H was told porting wasnt guaranteed and any application 
would need to go to an underwriter to assess. Ms H was also told any overpayments would 
be lost  not eligible for borrow back  after porting.  Our investigator said she heard Ms H 
say it may be better for her not to make overpayments but the advisor said there are benefits 
to overpayments such as reducing the interest payable.
Regarding Ms Hs telephone conversation in February 2018, our investigator said Ms H 
called specifically to discuss borrow back. The advisor said borrow back isnt guaranteed 
and is subject to application. And while Ms H mentioned her plan to port, there was no 
discussion around porting.
Our investigator also listened to a recording of a call Ms H had with Heliodor in July 2020. 
During that call she heard the advisor say lump sum overpayments cannot be borrowed 
back, only overpayments made by direct debit. 
In conclusion, our investigator said she thought Ms H chose not to reduce her outstanding 
balance and remain with Heliodor because she believed she wouldnt be able to remortgage 
with another lender and she hoped shed be able to port her mortgage with Heliodor. Our 
investigator thought Ms H was aware there was no guarantee she could borrow back or port, 
so she didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H didnt agree. She said she remembers being told her application to port would be 
assessed but, in situations such as hers, good mortgage conduct would be taken into 
consideration. She said the advisor implied customers with a good record would be looked 
upon favourably. After further correspondence from our investigator, Ms H said following the 
call in 2017, she was left with the clear impression that she would be able to port her current 
level of borrowing. And she felt shed received assurances from Heliodor and so did not 
make efforts to move her mortgage.
Ms H asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so its been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Ms Hs complaint Ive thought about whether anything she was told should 
reasonably have dissuaded Ms H from seeking a lower rate product with another lender or 
reducing her balance with Heliodor. And, if so, was she given incorrect information or in a 
way that would have unfairly influenced her.
I think its clear from the evidence available  as outlined above  that Ms H was concerned 
about her ability to remortgage with another lender because shed relied on the self-cert 
application process previously and that wasnt available by the time she was thinking about 
moving home in 2017. So, when she called Heliodor in 2017, it was understandable that she 
thought her options were limited to porting rather than attempting to get a new mortgage with 
a different lender to purchase a new property.
Ms Hs initial call in 2017 resulted in her booking an appointment with a mortgage advisor. 
On listening to her initial call, I noted that there was no impression given either way about 
the likely success of an application to port her mortgage.During Ms Hs subsequent call  five days later  she discussed the prospect of porting in 
much more detail with a mortgage advisor. On listening to the recording of the call I did hear 
that the advisor told Ms H that an underwriter would look at payment history and what was 
best for both the lender and Ms H. And his tone was generally upbeat.
However, I found that the language the advisor used was cautious. He said:
we would check criteria
if you could show us youve been paying it successfully and if youve never had any 
issues theres a good chance we could have a look at it, though nothings 
guaranteed until we go through the full process. 
[I could] put a case to the underwriter and say this lady is looking to pay off a part of 
the mortgage  fingers crossed theyll look at it from a business point of view, not 
necessarily concentrating on affordability.
And when Ms H probed further, twice, about the likelihood of success the advisor told her it 
was possible and that the lender would potentially look at it.
Ms H says she was left with the impression that her application had a good chance of 
success  enough, at least, that she felt it was better to remain on Heliodors relatively high 
interest rate so that she could port. But, despite the advisors upbeat tone, I dont think he 
said or gave the impression that a porting application was likely to succeed, only that it was 
possible. So, I accept that Ms H may have felt optimistic about her chances of being able to 
port her mortgage after that call. But I dont think Heliodors mortgage advisor said anything 
to make her think success was more likely than not, based on the language he used over the 
whole call. And I dont think he said anything misleading or unfairly influential.
 
Ms H also complained that she was given inconsistent information about the borrow back 
facility. I noted that her calls with Heliodor in Feb 2018 and July 2020 focussed exclusively 
on the borrow back facility and not porting. And I understand that was important because 
she didnt want to make overpayments at the risk of having to port an amount lower than she 
needed for a new purchase. That may have been a consequence of making overpayments 
she couldnt borrow back. 
Ive listened to all the call recordings with Ms Hs concerns about borrow back in mind. I 
heard that, during the call with the mortgage advisor in 2017 Ms H was told any 
overpayments made before porting would not be able to be borrowed back after porting.    
Ms H verbally surmised that shed be better off not making overpayments.
During the conversations in 2018 and 2019 about borrow back, the advisors seemed less 
sure about the rules around it. Both said the ability to borrow back overpayments wasnt 
guaranteed and one explained that lump sum overpayments were not eligible for borrow 
back. I dont think the inconsistences here were significant enough to have an impact on   
Ms Hs decision-making process, aside from making a lump sum overpayment  which she 
didnt do. I say that because that information was confirmed to her as being correct in the 
conversation she had with Heliodor in 2020  which she says was what influenced her to 
remortgage elsewhere.
More generally, I think, had Ms H been able to remortgage elsewhere in 2017, it wouldnt 
have mattered what Heliodor told her then about porting or its borrow back facility. If a lower 
rate was important to her, she could have remortgaged with another lender and 
subsequently ported or moved home and used a new lender. As Ive no reason to believe a 
lower rate wasnt important to her, I would conclude either she didnt qualify for one with 
another lender or she simply didnt make enquiries in that regard. But I dont think anything Heliodor told Ms H about porting would have stopped her from moving her mortgage to 
another lender on a more favourable rate had she tried and an application was successful.
Overall, I dont think Heliodor gave Ms H misleading information about porting or its borrow 
back facility. And I dont think the information on those issues was given in such a way that 
could reasonably be considered as unfairly influential. So, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman