DRN-4198540
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels (SW) dealt 
with his motor insurance policy claim after a road traffic accident that wasnt his fault. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr A said he was involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt his fault. He 
made a claim against his motor insurance policy with SW for the damage. Mr A said his car 
was hit when a third-party driver pulled out of a side road. Mr A said there was damage to 
the drivers side caused when the third-party driver hit his car. And there was damage to the 
passenger side as the impact pushed his car into a bollard. Mr A said the accident also 
caused further damage as there was a noise from the cars engine immediately after the 
accident.
Mr A said SW didnt accept the engine noise and damage to the passenger side of his car 
was accident related. He complained to SW.
SW said they had relied on expert opinion in determining the damage to Mr A s car. The 
report found the damage to the passenger side and engine noise werent accident related. 
SW said that as Mr A wasnt at fault for the accident, they would look to recover any accident 
related costs from the third-party insurer (TPI). SW told Mr A if hed an independent report 
that the damage was accident related, they would review his claim and also consider the 
cost of the independent report. 
Mr A wasnt happy with SWs response, he said hed been hit at high speed, and pushed into 
the bollard. The impact had caused damage to the passenger side of his car as well as   
brake, wheel and suspension damage. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said SW had acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the expert opinion of 
the engineers in determining the settlement of Mr As claim.
Mr A disagreed, he said SW hadnt considered reports that showed the damage was 
accident related. And they hadnt reimbursed him for his battery after they said they would. 
Mr A said hed had to sell his car at a much lower value because of the damage. He asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, were not engineers and we do not assess whether or how damage to a car has been 
caused, as this is a matter for the experts, insurance companies and engineers. Our role is 
to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and can justify the 
decision not to pay for additional repairs or inspections.
Its accepted that Mr A didnt cause the accident, but even when the TPI is paying the bill, his 
insurer, SW would still have a responsibility to mitigate costs as the TPI wouldnt pay for any 
damage that wasnt related to the accident. So, in reaching my decision Ive considered 
whether SW has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr A.
The evidence needed by the insurer that shows the damage is related to the incident will 
vary from case to case. But often wed expect to see a report from an engineer, photos of 
the damage and any witness reports. This evidence should be considered against the 
consumers account of what happened and the damage they said was caused by the 
incident. 
I can see Mr A first notified SW about his accident through their online portal. And answered 
the question, Whats the damage to your car by saying, There is damage to the drivers 
side of my car, both doors and the bottom panel. I can also see that the photographs 
provided showed only damage to the drivers side of Mr As car, and the other drivers car. I 
havent seen any photographs or mention of the damage to the passenger door given at the 
first notification of the accident. 
Mr As later testimony said that his car had been hit at high speed pushing him onto the 
bollards which caused the passenger side damage. From Mr As description to SW as to  
where the accident took place, they considered the bollards were some distance away. And 
the circumstances of the accident werent consistent with Mr As car being pushed onto the 
bollards. I can also see SW checked the testimony of the other driver, which said on pulling 
out of a side road theyd collided with the drivers side of Mr As car. There wasnt any 
recollection of a collision with bollards and damage being done to any other part of Mr As 
car. 
On balance I think its unlikely that Mr A wouldnt have been aware of the damage to his car if 
hed hit the bollards. And if this had been the case, he would have reported it at the first 
notification of the accident. But he didnt.
The engineers report showed the damage was to the drivers side of Mr As car, as was the 
direction of impact. A diagnostic report was done for the engine noise and this was thought 
to be the tensioners and auxiliary belt as these were dry and more likely a wear and tear 
issue rather than accident related. The report also shows the brakes were checked and 
although there was some wear and tear, no accident related issues were identified.
I can see that SW suggested Mr A could take his car to a dealer for further diagnosis. And if 
found to be accident related SW said they would consider this and the cost of the report. I 
cant see that Mr A took this option. 
Mr A has said his car was beyond economical repair and should have been written off. But 
the policy terms of his insurance with SW say:
We will decide which method we use to settle your claim.
So, it would be for the insurer to decide whether a damaged car can be or is worth repairing. 
And in this case SW decided that it was. I cant say they acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
making this decision as the repair costs appeared to be relatively minor.
Mr A said SW had agreed to replace the battery for his car and havent. I can see Mr A told 
SW he was having trouble starting his car and they suggested he try to jump start it. But if 
this wasnt successful and he provided the receipt for the replacement battery, £215  they 
would look to reimburse him. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr A provided the 
requested receipt. So, Im satisfied SW in reaching the settlement for Mr As claim has fairly and reasonably 
relied on the evidence of the garage report, a senior engineer review and by checking the 
testimony of the other party involved. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman