DRN-3432695
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Ikano agreed with our adjudicators view of the complaint and made an offer to settle the 
complaint. Mrs B (through her representative) declined this offer explaining that redress 
hadnt been worked out in line with our established approach to these types of cases. Our 
adjudicator agreed and told Ikano how the redress calculation should be completed but 
Ikano did not make a revised offer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, and as agreed by Ikano, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the 
evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for her.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mrs B
I appreciate Ikano has made an offer to settle this complaint  but this offer is not in line with 
our established approach to redress in these types of cases. So, I set out below how we 
expect Ikano to work this out. 
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for 
Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed 
savings and income to Mrs B from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she 
pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Ikano needs to reimburse Mrs B accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mrs Bs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Bs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs B 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs B has settled the loan, Ikano should pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs B should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs B paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-fundingIm satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman