DRN-3399272
The complaint
Ms E complains that the offer Aviva Insurance Limited has made to settle her claim on her 
home insurance policy is unfair.
What happened
Ms Es mobile phone was stolen, so she claimed on her home insurance policy. Aviva 
passed Ms Es claim to a loss adjuster to assess. 
Avivas loss adjuster said the IMEI for Ms Es stolen phone needed to be blacklisted by her 
network provider before it could progress her claim. This took a few days. Initially it seems 
this was because Ms E didnt have her IMEI to hand when she blocked her SIM card with 
her network provider, then her network providers system was down and finally there was 
confusion about which databases the details of the blacklisted phone needed to be uploaded 
to. Ms E needed a phone for work and personal use, so by the time her stolen phone was 
blacklisted, shed ordered a replacement phone herself. Because of this, Ms E asked Aviva 
to settle her claim in cash.
Aviva initially offered Ms E a cash settlement of around £407 (minus her policy excess of 
£100), later increasing its offer to £419.21 (minus the policy excess). Ms E was unhappy with 
Avivas offer. Among other things, she said it didnt reflect the cost to her of buying a 
replacement for the stolen phone from her preferred manufacturer, which would also have 
the benefit of its warranty.
When Ms E complained to Aviva about this, it said that, because Ms E wanted to settle her 
claim in cash, it would only pay her the cost to it of replacing the phone. Aviva said this was 
in line with the wording of Ms Es home insurance policy.
So Ms E brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it was satisfied Avivas 
offer to settle Ms Es claim was in line with the terms of her policy.
Ms E disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Avivas offer to settle Ms Es claim was fair and reasonable and I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
Ms Es home insurance policy is a contract of indemnity. This means, following her claim, 
Aviva should put Ms E, as nearly as possible, back in the position she was in before her 
phone was stolen.
Ms Es policy document has a term saying Aviva can choose how it settles Ms Es claim. It 
says it can do this by giving Ms E an equivalent replacement (which, in the case of a mobile 
phone, could include a refurbished model) or by making a payment. This is how Aviva 
indemnifies Ms E for the loss of her mobile phone.
Ms Es policy document goes on to say that, if Aviva can replace Ms Es mobile phone but 
she wishes to settle using cash, it will only pay Ms E what it wouldve cost Aviva to replace 
the phone. This is a standard provision in most home insurance policies. And if the cost to 
an insurer of replacing an item is less than the cost to the consumer of replacing it, were 
likely to think thats fair  as long as the offer to replace the item was fair to begin with. 
Thats because the insurer has given the consumer the chance to be indemnified (by 
replacement) but the consumer hasnt taken it.
In Ms Es case, I can see that, after her stolen phones IMEI was blacklisted, Avivas loss 
adjuster initially offered Ms E a new replacement phone of the same make and model as her 
stolen phone, sourced from a third party retailer (or vouchers to the value of £449). But Ms E 
said shed already ordered a new phone and so wanted to settle in cash. 
Because Ms E wanted to settle in cash, Aviva offered her a settlement amount of £407, later 
increased to £419.21 (minus the policy excess). This was based on how much it would cost 
Aviva to replace Ms Es phone with a new one of the same make and model. Aviva has 
shown us how it  obtained its valuations and Ive seen nothing to make me think they were 
unfair. 
I know Ms E thinks Aviva shouldve based its offer on the cost of a replacement mobile 
phone from the manufacturer (rather than a third party)  in particular, so that she could 
benefit from the manufacturers warranty. Ms E says a warranty is part and parcel of buying 
a new phone without the need for an explicit reference to it in the policy document. I dont 
agree and I dont think Ms Es home insurance policy entitles her to this additional benefit.
By offering Ms E a replacement mobile phone of the same make and model as her stolen 
one, I think Aviva made Ms E a fair offer and gave her the chance to be indemnified, as it 
was required to do under her policy. Ms E chose not to accept the offer  because shed 
already ordered a replacement. Ms E said she did this because of the delay in settling her 
claim which in turn it seems was caused by the problems Ive described in getting the stolen 
phone blacklisted. Nevertheless, it was Ms Es decision to go ahead and order a 
replacement herself, rather than waiting for Avivas settlement offer. In these circumstances, 
I think it would be unfair to direct Aviva to settle Ms Es claim by paying the cost to her of 
replacing it, because it had already done what was required of it under her policy. 
Ms E is unhappy Aviva involved a loss adjuster in the assessment of her claim without her 
consent. She thinks this shows it had no intention of assessing her claim fairly and 
reasonably. She points to discrepancies between the replacement values Aviva and the loss 
adjuster gave her for her stolen phone as evidence of this. 
But insurers often appoint third parties to assess claims and it isnt something Ms Es 
consent is required for. I can understand why, having spoken to a sympathetic call handler at 
Aviva, Ms E may have been given hope of a higher cash settlement. But I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable, having instructed a loss adjuster to assess Ms Es claim, for Aviva to 
rely on that loss adjusters recommended settlement figure. Ms E has also made the point 
that her policy gives her cover new for old. But if shed accepted Avivas offer of a 
replacement mobile phone, I think thats what she wouldve got.My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Ms E £419.21 (minus her policy 
excess of £100) to settle the complaint. For the reasons Ive given, I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Ms E £319.21.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman