DRN-2969702
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the way Allianz Insurance Plc handled a claim he made for a 
damaged laptop under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr O made a claim for accidental damage to a laptop hed originally 
bought in 2013. Allianz accepted and settled his claim. In January 2019 Mr Os laptop was 
replaced with a new model and came with a years warranty.
In December 2020 Mr O brought his laptop to the manufacturer repair store as there was 
fault with the backlight. The manufacturer said it would cost £632.48 to repair. 
Mr O contacted Allianz. He believed it should meet the costs to repair the laptop. He said the 
report showed the condition of the laptop was otherwise excellent and so Mr O wasnt 
responsible for the fault. He said as it was a manufacturer fault  under the Consumer Right 
Act 2015 - he believed Allianz should pay for the repairs as the fault occurred within two 
years of purchase. 
Allianz didnt agree. Allianz had arranged for a replacement laptop which came with a years 
warranty from the supplier. It said Mr O had enjoyed 23 months of use from the laptop before 
the fault was reported. It said it wasnt responsible for the costs of the repair. 
Allianz upheld part of Mr Os complaint as it agreed it took too long to let Mr O know of its 
decision. For the delay it caused, it paid Mr O £75 compensation. Allianz said Mr O would 
need to provide evidence the fault was there from when the laptop was purchased before it 
would consider his claim. It said from research it carried out there are multiple reasons for 
the fault occurring to Mr Os laptop. 
Mr O asked us to look at his complaint. He said Allianz hadnt acted reasonably or in line 
with the Consumer Rights Act. He wanted compensation of £5 a day for the time Allianz took 
to deal with his claim. He wanted Allianz to replace his laptop with the latest equivalent 
model. 
Our investigator considered what the Consumer Right Act says  that if a product develops a 
fault within six months of purchase, its assumed it has been there since purchase. As Mr O 
has enjoyed the use of the laptop for 23 months before the fault was reported, she thought it 
reasonable to conclude the laptop had been working well up to this point  and so it didnt 
seem unreasonable to say the fault had developed after six months of purchase. Having 
reached that conclusion, the investigator considered in line with the Act that it was for the 
consumer to therefore prove the fault was there from the beginning. 
As Mr O hadnt provided any evidence to show the fault was present from the purchase date 
the investigator didnt recommend upholding his complaint. 
In response, Mr O provided a new report from the manufacturer repair store. This report said 
Mr O had been aware of the fault since hed received the laptop. They reported the issue 
was a manufacturing fault from the outset.
The investigator passed the new report to Allianz. It said this isnt an official report confirming 
a manufacturing fault with the laptop since the start. It said the report is based on what Mr O 
told the manufacturer repair store in June 2021 - that the fault had been there intermittently 
since the outset. Allianz said this also contradicted what Mr O told it in December 2020  
that it was a new fault then. 
So Allianz said it didnt change its decision.
Our investigator didnt find the second report persuasive enough to say the fault was there 
from the outset. She explained that the report was written as guided by what Mr O reported 
to the manufacturer in June 2021. The investigator asked Mr O for his comments based on 
what he reported to Allianz in December 2020 that the fault was new then. She asked Mr O if 
he could provide a definitive report from the manufacturer to say that the fault was with the 
laptop since the outset. 
Mr O said he thinks it unreasonable to request further information as he has obtained what 
we asked for. The repair store carried out diagnostics and has reported a manufacturer fault.
Mr O wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the first and second reports provided by the manufacturer repair store when Mr 
Os laptop was inspected in December 2020 and June 2021. 
The first report says the issue is a hardware problem and provides the costs to repair at 
£632.48 including VAT to replace the logic board and touch ID board. 
Nowhere does the report say this is a manufacturer fault or from when. In an email Mr O 
wrote to Allianz dated 7 December 2020 he explained that the laptop has now developed a 
fault. 
The second report from the same repair store writes:
Since customer got the device the issue was there yet intermittent and therefore 
didnt immediately notice, has tried with (manufacturer name) support to see if it was 
a simple software issue but came to the conclusion it was there from beginning
The report confirmed diagnostic tests were carried out, software was reinstalled but the 
issue persisted and so to put it right, the display would need replacing at a cost of £565. 
The report confirmed the issue was not down to misuse, but a manufacturer fault. It goes on 
to clarify the repair as out of warranty. As Mr O didnt report the fault within the warranty 
period, the manufacturer wont cover the costs of the repair. 
I think the information the repair store gave that the fault was there from the outset is based 
on what Mr O told it. This is at odds with what Mr O told Allianz in December 2020  and with 
the first report from the same manufacturer repair store. Mr O says that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 he is entitled to a replacement from 
Allianz as the fault has been there since purchase. But I dont think he has proven this to be 
the case. And it is for an insurer to prove their claim. As there isnt sufficient evidence to 
show the fault was there from the outset, I dont think Allianz is responsible for replacing the 
laptop. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman