DRN-2953604
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way MetLife Europe d.a.c. evaluated his claim under his personal 
accident insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr K suffered a serious injury to his thumb. And as a result of the injury, part of 
his thumb had to be surgically amputated. He submitted a claim to MetLife under the loss of 
thumb benefit within his policy.
MetLife didnt agree. It said the loss of thumb benefit only applied if Mr K had suffered a 
total loss of his thumb, not a partial loss. It did however look at other terms within the policy 
that might apply and it agreed to accept Mr Ks claim on the basis that as part of the injury, 
hed suffered a fracture of his thumb joint  the interphalangeal joint below the thumb nail.
Mr K raised a complaint and following a second review of Mr Ks claim, MetLife didnt change 
its decision.
As Mr K remained unhappy, he referred his concerns to this service.
Our investigator considered the case and upheld the complaint. He agreed Mr K hadnt 
suffered a total loss of his thumb, but as the injury had left Mr K unable to work for a while, 
and meant hed had to change his job, he thought MetLife should make a proportionate 
settlement of the total loss benefit, recognising Mr K has an on-going disability.
Mr K agreed but MetLife didnt  and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint as my findings differed from that of our 
investigator.  In my provisional decision, I said  
Im sorry Mr K has waited sometime for our final answer on his complaint. I appreciate the 
accident has left him with some physical limitations and I dont under-estimate the impact 
this has had on him. But as a result of my review, I dont intend to uphold his complaint and 
wont be asking MetLife to do anymore. Let me explain 
Mr Ks policy pays a fixed benefit amount under loss of thumb. The policy terms go on to 
explain that loss of thumb means permanent physical severance of an entire thumb.  
The medical evidence Ive seen confirms that Mr K didnt lose his entire thumb. He lost the 
top section, from the tip of his thumb to the joint below his fingernail. And because of that Im 
satisfied Mr Ks claim doesnt fall within the total loss benefit of the policy.
Im also satisfied MetLife has taken steps to consider the injury within the context of the 
other policy benefits and as a result, has paid the amount available under the Minor broken 
bone benefit, recognising that Mr Ks thumb joint was broken in the accident.
Mr K thinks MetLife should do more and so Ive gone on to carefully consider the impact of 
Mr Ks injury on him and whether MetLifes decision goes far enough. Im satisfied it does. 
As Ive explained, Mr Ks policy is a personal accident policy. It pays a fixed benefit for 
certain types of permanent injuries following an accident. And I find the policy is clear in 
terms of cover and the benefits offered in this regard. It is not a policy which includes 
benefits for loss of, or reduction in, earnings or any resulting changes in lifestyle. It also 
doesnt offer a proportionate benefit payment where an injury doesnt meet the total loss 
definition. I appreciate Mr K has suffered an injury which has left him with a permanent 
impairment, but I cant ask MetLife to compensate Mr K for the wider implications of his 
injury as that isnt the type of policy he has.
I do however note that Mr K has said the injury has meant hes had to change his job, and as 
the policy terms exclude certain occupations, if he hasnt already done so, and the policy is 
still in force, I suggest Mr K contacts MetLife to discuss his change of employment to ensure 
his new occupation is one that MetLife agrees to cover.
As neither party has provided any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and wont be asking MetLife Europe 
d.a.c. to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman