DRN-2820362
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc treated her unfairly when they switched the 
wrong bank account from another bank. 
What happened
Mrs A had an existing account with another bank who Ill call N. In early December 2020, 
Mrs A filled in account switching forms to move her account from N to Clydesdale which was 
due to complete on 9 December 2020. After inputting the forms Mrs A realised, shed input 
the wrong account number, and this was for another account held with a bank Ill call L. So 
she contacted Clydesdale to ask them to cancel the switch.
The Clydesdale call handler incorrectly told Mrs A they wouldnt be able to cancel the switch 
as it was already being processed. The call handler also said the switch should be rejected 
on 9 December as she misunderstood and thought the details Mrs A had input were 
incorrect  rather than just the wrong account details  so they could then put through the 
correct account details the following day. The call handler also said theyd follow up with call 
back on 10 December to confirm the correct account number to be switched instead. 
On 9 December, Mrs A called Clydesdale again and was upset to find that the switch had 
been processed and her account with L had been closed. So she complained to Clydesdale.
Clydesdale upheld the complaint. They agreed Mrs A had been incorrectly told that the 
switch couldnt be cancelled, and it was likely the switch would be rejected meaning her 
account with L wouldnt be closed. Clydesdale also said that although there would have 
been enough time to cancel the switch when Mrs A had called initially, they couldnt 
guarantee that the account with L still wouldnt have been closed, as some banks close their 
accounts as soon as the switch request is received. However, this wasnt something they 
could control, so their call handler should have made Mrs A aware of this. 
Clydesdale also agreed that based on what theyd seen, it was likely Mrs A was promised a 
call back that she didnt receive. So they apologised and gave Mrs A £150 compensation 
and a letter of comfort explaining their mistake, which Mrs A could give to L when asking 
them to reopen an account. They also agreed to consider any financial losses if Mrs A 
couldnt open a new account with the same interest rates as before. 
Mrs A didnt think this was enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused. She also wasnt sure if shed be able to open an account with L with similar 
benefits and was unhappy with the time it would take her to open a new account. So she 
asked this service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She agreed that Clydesdale 
had made a mistake, but she felt the compensation, apology, letter of comfort and 
agreement to consider any financial losses caused by any difference in the account interest 
rates was enough to put things right. She also looked at Ls accounts and confirmed there 
was an account with similar benefits on offer should Mrs A wish to apply for it.
Mrs A didnt agree. She felt the compensation wasnt enough for the loss of benefits and 
interest on her account, and the calls shed made to Clydesdale. She felt the letter of comfort 
wouldnt be any use if she applied online as it took so long to speak to someone. So she felt 
it would have been fairer for Clydesdale to have contacted L on her behalf. So she asked for 
an ombudsman to look into her complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge Mrs A feels Clydesdale didnt act professionally and Ive seen she was given 
incorrect information by them when she called initially, and that Clydesdale should have 
been able to stop the switch taking place. However, Clydesdale have admitted theyve made 
a mistake and tried to put things right.
Clydesdale have agreed they could have cancelled the switch when Mrs A called initially. 
However, Ive seen they couldnt say whether Mrs As account with L would still have been 
closed as soon as the switch request was submitted, and I do have to take this into account. 
I also need to consider that Mrs A did input the wrong account number initially herself.
Ive looked at the steps Clydesdale have taken since the switch was processed, and Ive 
seen theyve tried to resolve the issue as much as possible. I acknowledge Mrs A said she 
thought Clydesdale would arrange with L to open an account on her behalf. However, its not 
in Clydesdales remit to be able to ask another bank to open an account on a customers 
behalf  particularly as they wouldnt have the knowledge of what account options were best 
from a competitor bank. 
So I think Clydesdale have done the best thing they can to assist Mrs A by giving her the 
letter of comfort to provide to L as the bank of her choice. L can then advise Mrs A on which 
account would best suit her needs. Looking at the letter of comfort, it explains Clydesdale 
were at fault for the account closure, and it asks L to take this into consideration when 
looking at account options for Mrs A. So Im satisfied theyve done what they can to put 
things right. 
Mrs A has told us shes unhappy about the loss of benefits on her account with L. However, 
Ive seen that there is an account available with L which provides similar benefits to those 
Mrs A has told us shes lost from the closure of her account. However, Mrs A has said she 
hasnt tried to apply for any accounts with L. 
I recognise Mrs As frustration at the time it may take to open an account, however there 
were several ways Mrs A could have attempted to do this  not just on the phone where she 
may experience a long wait time. However, Mrs A hasnt attempted to open a new account 
with L, so Im unable to say if she would have any trouble doing so, or if shed been 
impacted by the account closure in other ways. 
My role is to look at putting Mrs A back in the position  or as close to the position  she 
would have been had the error not taken place. However, as Mrs A hasnt tried to apply for a 
new account with similar benefits, or use the letter of comfort, I cant reasonably say the 
actions taken by Clydesdale wouldnt have been successful. And I cant take into 
consideration the loss or impact of something that may not actually be lost if Mrs A had tried 
to mitigate the impact of Clydesdales mistake.So whilst I recognise the frustration and distress Mrs A was caused by the incorrect 
information, and the time she has spent discussion this with Clydesdale. But Ive seen that 
Clydesdale have apologised to Mrs A for this and paid her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience. Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake and based 
on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Clydesdale have done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman