DRN-2407582
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc provided an overdraft on his account 
without his knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr T had a current account with RBS. He opened the account in 2015. He says he wanted 
the account to make payments into whilst he was doing home improvements. He says he 
already had another account with a different bank which he paid his wages into and on 
which he had an agreed overdraft.
Mr T says when he applied for the account with RBS, he made all of this clear. He says the 
application for the account took just over five minutes and he wasnt given any information 
about the account. On his way out of the branch he says he was asked to sign a piece of 
paper which included the sort code and account number for the account. He says he didnt 
apply for an overdraft and he says he wasnt told there would be an overdraft made available 
on the account.
He says he didnt get any statements for the account. He used the account and assumed 
that if there werent enough funds in the account at any time his debit card would be 
declined. It wasnt until 2017 that he first became aware that his account had an overdraft 
and he owed RBS money. He complained at that time, but he says nothing was done. He 
complained again in 2019 when he says he was being pursued by debt collectors.
RBS investigated his complaint. It said it had checked its records and Mr T had applied for 
an overdraft of £1250 in June 2015. Hed been provided with Pre-Contract Information and 
an Overdraft Confirmation letter at that time. It also said Mr T had withdrawn £500 from the 
account very soon after it was opened. It said this showed he knew there was an agreed 
overdraft on the account since there wouldnt have been time for any funds to be paid into 
the account before this withdrawal. So, it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr T referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said she wasnt present when the account 
was opened. So, she had to consider the documents that had been produced to work out 
what was more likely to have happened. She thought Mr T wouldve seen the application 
form which set out the request for an overdraft of £1250. She also thought Mr T wouldve 
received the Pre-Contract Information about the overdraft and the Overdraft Confirmation 
letter. She also noted that Mr T had used the overdraft in the period since 2015. She didnt 
think RBS had done anything wrong. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed never received any of these documents and hed never been 
sent any statements about the account. He also raised issues about Payment Protection 
Insurance and queried the level of charges thatd been applied to the overdraft by RBS.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just point out that although Mr T has raised issues, after our investigator 
wrote to him, about Payment Protection Insurance and charges added to his overdraft since 
June 2016, these matters were not included in the complaint which he raised with RBS. RBS 
hasnt been given the opportunity to respond to these points when it issued its final response 
letter. In this decision I wont be dealing with these issues. If Mr T wants these issues dealt 
with, hell need to raise them separately.
Mr T says he knew nothing about the overdraft on his account until around 2017. At that time 
RBS sent him a default notice and a letter of demand asking for the overdraft to be repaid. 
Ive thought about what Mr T has said.
At the time the account was opened there was an application for an agreed overdraft of 
£1250 on the account. Mr T says the whole application process took around five minutes. 
And, he says he didnt want or need an overdraft on the account as he already had an 
overdraft with another bank.
RBS says he did apply for an overdraft. And it says it gave him certain documents including 
Pre-Contract Information and an Overdraft Confirmation letter. Mr T says he was given a bit 
of paper ripped off another paper to sign. He denies ever being given the documents RBS 
has referred to.
Ive looked at the copies of the documents Mr T signed. He signed a document Your 
application. It is the case that this signature is on a separate page, but that page does 
include a declaration where Mr T confirms that the information hed provided in the 
application form is correct. So, I wouldve expected him to ask for a copy of the application 
form to check the information before he signed this declaration. The application form, which 
he says he didnt receive a copy of, does detail the application for the overdraft. 
RBS has also referred to two other documents. The Pre-Contract Information and the 
Confirmation letter about the overdraft. Neither of these documents wouldve required a 
signature. Mr T says he didnt get either of these documents.
In these circumstances where there is a dispute about the information thats been provided, I 
need to look at the actions Mr T and RBS took after the arrangement was put in place.
Ive looked at the statements for the account. I can see that Mr T immediately started to 
withdraw funds from the account shortly after it was opened. Over the first month he 
withdrew funds right up to the overdraft limit that had been set on the account. It was only at 
this point that he credited funds to the account. Mr T says he believed a supplier had 
credited funds to the account before he started to make these withdrawals. But that hadnt 
happened.
Ive considered what Mr T has said here. But Im not persuaded that he wouldve started to 
withdraw funds from the account, in circumstances where he says there was no agreed 
overdraft, without first checking that the credit had been made. He used a cash machine to 
make the initial withdrawals. So, he couldve easily checked if the credit had been made. Ive 
also noted that when hed reached the limit RBS says was agreed on the overdraft, he first 
credited funds to the account.
Ive also looked at how Mr T used the account over the period since June 2015. I can see he 
regularly used the overdraft on the account. And he lodged funds to the account when it had 
reached the agreed limit. Any excess over the agreed limit was caused when fees were debited to the account. I think this supports the view that Mr T knew what the overdraft limit 
was and he was managing the account to keep within that limit.
In April 2016 the account exceeded the agreed limit. But, Mr T lodged funds to restore the 
account to credit at that time. Again, I think this supports the view that Mr T knew there was 
an agreed overdraft limit on the account. The last transaction on the account appears to 
have been in June 2016 when the account balance was £1247.92 (debit). After that date 
fees and interest were applied.
So, having looked at how the account was operated, Im persuaded, on balance, Mr T knew 
there was an agreed overdraft on the account, and he knew that the overdraft limit was 
£1250. 
I also asked RBS about whether Mr T was sent regular statements for the account. It says 
that because of the passage of time since the account was closed, it cant confirm how 
statements were issued. But its confirmed that its normal for it to send monthly statements 
to its customers. And it says it would also have sent details of any interest or charges thatd 
been applied to the account. 
RBS says that after February 2017, when the account was referred to its Collections 
department, it sent Mr T several letters about the amount outstanding on his overdraft. Its 
provided copies of its internal records to show the dates these letters were sent  27 
February 2017, 11 March 2017 and 18 March 2017. Mr T says he didnt receive any of this 
correspondence. He says he knew nothing about the overdraft until he contacted RBS on 20 
April 2017. Hed done that because, he says, hed received correspondence from RBS. I can 
see that RBS issued a default notice on 25 March 2017 and a formal demand on 17 April 
2017. 
If, as Mr T says, he didnt receive statements, Id have expected him to query this with RBS. 
Theres no evidence he did that. And, RBS has provided evidence it sent various letters 
about the overdraft in 2017. These were sent to the same address as the formal demand 
letter  which Mr T says he did receive. So, on balance, Im persuaded on the basis of the 
evidence RBS has provided, that it did send information about the overdraft to Mr T.
Having considered everything here, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied RBS 
provided Mr T with information about the overdraft when he applied for the account. Im also 
satisfied it sent him statements and other correspondence about the overdraft in the period 
prior to March 2017 when the default notice was issued to him. And, having looked at how 
the account was operated, Im satisfied Mr T knew he was using the overdraft and was 
aware of the agreed limit. 
So, I dont think RBS did anything wrong when it defaulted the account and issued a letter 
asking him to repay the amount he owed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman