DRN-2716340
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
 
Mr H is represented by a third party. 
What happened
Using information from Mutuals records supplied to us here is a brief loan table to show the 
approved loans for Mr H. The first nine were considered to have been out of this Services 
jurisdiction and so no decision is made in relation to them. They remain relevant in terms of 
the lending history. They are shaded in grey in the table. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermweekly rate
(rounded)
1 14/05/2011 09/05/2012 £500 51w £14
2 30/07/2011 11/04/2012 £200 51w £5
3 14/04/2012 15/05/2013 £600 102w £9
4 15/09/2012 15/05/2013 £700 102w £11
5 01/12/2012 15/05/2013 £250 51w £7
6 22/12/2012 29/05/2013 £250 51w £7
7 25/05/2013 11/10/2017 £500 102w £8
8 10/08/2013 23/07/2014 £400 102w £6
9 09/11/2013 28/02/2018 £800 102w £12
10 26/07/2014 28/02/2018 £1,300 102w £20
  
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things 
right for Mr H for loan 10. She thought that the pattern of lending was unsustainable and 
loan 10 ought not to have been approved.
The only documents Mutual has sent us to investigate this complaint is a copy of its final 
response letter and its seventeen pages of submissions as to why it disagreed with our 
adjudicators view. Mr H has sent us little or no documents. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. 
And our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend 
to go into detail about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and 
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published 
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the 
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with high cost short term credit lenders.  
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other decisions. Where 
Mutual has raised points relevant to Mr Hs circumstances or complaint I have referred to 
them where necessary. 
I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as does the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost 
credit cohort. And while I note Mutuals loans have longer terms than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this 
point was reached by loan 10. I explain why I think this in the following paragraphs. 
By loan 10, his overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently
reliant on this form of borrowing. Mr H had been indebted to Mutual over three years. He had 
other loans with Mutual which remained outstanding when he applied for loan 10. And 
Mutual has informed us through its own loan table that loan 8 was refinanced into loan 10. 
Loan 10 had a repayment period of 104 weeks, so Mr Hs indebtedness was going to be 
indebted for a further two year period and the amount he asked to borrow for loan 10 was a 
lot more than the immediately preceding three loans. I do not have any copy agreements 
from Mutual and so using the information on its loan table it seems that when loan 10 had 
been approved Mr H would have been paying about £40 a week (loan 8 having been 
refinanced into loan 10). Compared with Mr Hs original repayments three years earlier (£14 
a week) I think it shows a large increase and due to be repaid for some time going forward.
So, in my view, the pattern of lending itself shows that the loans from here were 
unsustainable  so I dont think Mutual should have approved loan 10.
I think that Mr H lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan five
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loan 10 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has given its own explanations as to what it thinks the Judge 
meant where that Judge said that the relationship could be fair if there were a lower number 
of loans per year: for example, under four loans a year. Mutual has said, as it lent a lower 
amount than this to Mr H, then this would indicate that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
The Judgment was about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different 
question, with some different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans had been 
lent irresponsibly. There might be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgment was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And it has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of short 
term high cost credit providers. So, I dont think that the Judges conclusions about a
differently structured product can be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change the outcome about this complaint.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H for loan 10, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
 Mutual shouldnt have given Mr H loan 10. My understanding is that this has been repaid 
and there are no outstanding balances.
 
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything already refunded; and 
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C)  Mutual should pay Mr H the total of A plus B; and
D) the overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loan 10 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Mr Hs credit 
file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr H  a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct that Mutual Clothing and 
Supply Company Limited does as I have indicated above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman