DRN-2979041
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his car insurance broker One Call Insurance Services Limited 
because it told him his policy had to be updated with his new provisional driving licence and 
which it said overruled his foreign driving licence.
What happened
Mr D applied for car insurance via One Call in May 2020. He told One Call hed been living in 
the UK since 1 February 2020 and was, at that time, using a foreign driving licence. His wife 
was named on the policy, and also said to be using a foreign licence. 
In January 2021 One Call needed Mr D to clarify some information in respect of his address. 
Having done so it charged him a £24.00 admin fee for amending his policy. During that 
process Mr D advised that he now possessed a UK provisional driving licence. One Calls 
representative told Mr D that this then overruled his foreign licence and he had to change his 
policy for that too. One Call told Mr D that if he didnt provide it relevant details of his new 
licence it would cancel his policy. Mr D gave it details, the policy was amended, and a new 
premium was charged, but One Call didnt charge Mr D a further admin fee. Mr D then told 
One Call that his occupation had changed. One Call amended the policy and charged a 
£39.00 admin fee for doing so.
Mr D was unhappy. He felt he had been given wrong advice by One Call as hed obtained 
detail from the DVLA which said the provisional licence didnt overrule his foreign licence, 
which was valid until 1 February 2021. Mr D said, after One Call had told him it was 
changing his policy to reflect his driving on a UK provisional licence, hed obtained other 
insurance to show he was still driving on a foreign licence. This cost him £33.35 but hed 
cancelled it when he got the correct advice from the DVLA. He said hed had transport costs 
on account of One Calls poor advice too. One Call didnt accept it had done anything wrong. 
But, as a goodwill gesture, said it would refund Mr D the admin fees hed been charged 
(totalling £63.00). 
Our investigator felt One Call had been wrong to say the UK provisional licence overruled 
the foreign one and that this poor advice had caused Mr D to obtain alternate insurance. So 
she said that One Call should pay Mr D £33.35. She didnt think she could fairly make it pay 
anything more to Mr D. 
One Call said it didnt think it had told Mr D to get alternative insurance. It felt that, 
regardless, its payment of £63.00 reasonably reimbursed that sum. Mr D said hed wait to 
see what an ombudsman thought about the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think One Call gave Mr D incorrect advice. The evidence from the DVLA is clear and 
One Call, as an expert insurance broker, should be aware of the correct situation. That is 
that a UK provisional licence does not, in the first twelve months of residency in the UK, 
overrule a foreign licence. However, that said, after twelve months, the foreign licence 
becomes invalid and only a UK provisional or full licence, with their relevant rules, would 
allow someone to drive legally in the UK.
Here, as Mr D was on the cusp of the twelve-month period running out, I think it was 
reasonable for One Call to want to update his policy. Arguably it should have held off doing 
this until 1 February 2021. But I cant see that doing that would have made much difference 
to Mr D  the cost of his premium, as charged by his insurer, would still have changed. But 
I think if One Call had been clearer about the relevant driving rules and how, as well as 
when, his insurance would be affected, Mr D wood have avoided being charged £33.35 by 
the other insurer. 
I say that because having read the online discussion Mr D had with One Call, its clear to me 
that he was told his insurance policy via One Call had to be based on him holding a UK 
provisional licence. And yet Mr D told One Call that he and his wife were still driving under 
their foreign licences. As I understand it, driving under the foreign licence, which Mr D was 
able to do until 1 February 2021, meant that he didnt have to comply with the more 
restrictive driving requirements of the UK provisional licence. So I can see that he might 
have thought that his driving in line with his foreign licence might cause a problem in the 
event of any claim where One Call had him recorded as being valid to drive under a UK 
provisional licence. I can understand why, after he had spoken to One Call, he arranged 
alternate cover. That cover was unnecessary, in my view, so I think its only fair and 
reasonable that One Call reimburses the cost of it. 
Mr D told us he had transport costs too. But he had no proof of those. Im not minded to 
make One Call pay anything in this respect. 
One Call has argued that it has reimbursed Mr D the £63.00 admin fees, despite having 
been entitled to charge these. I appreciate that One Call was entitled to charge these sums 
under the agreement it had with Mr D. But if it hadnt reimbursed them as a goodwill gesture, 
I might well have found it appropriate to make it pay compensation for the non-financial loss 
of distress and inconvenience which Im satisfied Mr D suffered due to its poor advice. Its 
advice gave him cause to worry about under what regulations he was driving, he had to 
double-check his understanding of his licence with the DVLA and he arranged the alternate 
cover, which he then had to cancel. So Im not minded to consider that One Calls 
reimbursement of the admin charges means it reasonably doesnt have to reimburse Mr D 
for the financial loss he suffered of £33.35.
 
Putting things right
I require One Call to pay Mr D £33.35.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman