DRN-1550981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a mortgage.
What happened
In April 2003, Mr and Mrs J applied for a further advance on their mortgage. At the same 
time, Lloyds sold them PPI. The PPI covered Mr J, and would meet the payments towards 
the new advance if Mr J lost his job or was off work sick. The policy cost £10.50 a month, 
and continued until it was cancelled in April 2005.
Mr and Mrs J think the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J 
didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs J's complaint.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice to buy the policy. I think 
they did. I note that the application form for the further advance included a section saying 
whether Mr and Mrs J wanted PPI. There's a box next to the statement "I wish to apply for 
C&G Payment Protection Plus cover. I have completed the relevant proposal form and am 
returning it with my application.". This box is ticked. There's a separate box labelled "I do not 
wish to receive a quotation" which is not ticked. In addition to this section of the loan 
application, Mr and Mrs J also completed a separate insurance proposal form. They've both 
signed this, and Mr J has signed a direct debit mandate agreeing to pay for the insurance.  
And so based on what I've seen, I think Mr and Mrs J knew they had a choice to buy the PPI 
- and chose to buy it. 
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs J. So it had to make sure the policy 
was right for them. Based on what I've seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it 
was. Mr J doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't 
cover. While I accept Mr J got some pay from his employer if he couldn't work, this policy 
would pay out alongside any pay he got from his employer. It also covered him if he was 
made redundant. The policy protected a mortgage, and their home was at risk if they 
couldn't make the payments.
Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs J the information they needed to work out if they wanted 
the policy. But for similar reasons, I'm not persuaded that better information would have put them off buying the policy. I think they wanted the cover, and it looks as though it would 
have been useful to them.
I've considered the other points Mr and Mrs J have raised. They've told us they 
remember telling the bank they didn't want PPI. And they also say they don't remember 
seeing the payments for this policy. But while I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel strongly that 
they didn't want the policy, based on everything I've seen I'm satisfied they knew they were 
buying this policy. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman