DRN-2577259
The complaint
Mrs G was involved in a minor car accident. Shes unhappy with how Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva) dealt with the third party claim against her policy. In particular shes unhappy 
about the impact its had on her No Claim Discount (NCD).
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs G was involved in a minor accident whilst reversing. She called Aviva 
to report the accident, although there was no damage to her car. She didnt think there was 
any damage to the other car either.
When she called to discuss the accident, Mrs G says that Aviva told her the accident 
wouldnt affect her NCD. But, later on, she was told it would affect her NCD. Mrs G says that 
the recording of the call where she was told her NCD wouldnt be affected has been 
redacted to exclude that part of the conversation. 
As her NCD was affected by the incident, Mrs G complained to Aviva. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said theyd reviewed the call and confirmed that they didnt state that Mrs G 
would retain her NCD. So Mrs G brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that Aviva hadnt misled Mrs G about the 
accidents impact on her NCD. And that Aviva had handled the third party claim fairly. Mrs G 
disagreed with the investigator and so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence Im not upholding this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Aviva acted in a fair and
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in their handling of the
claim. Its not my role to assess liability for an accident. Thats the role of the Courts.
Under the terms of the policy Aviva have the discretion to take over, defend or settle claims
as they feel appropriate. So theyre entitled to decide how the claim should be recorded 
based on the evidence they have. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Assessment of liability
The insurance policy explains that If we want to, we can take over and conductthe 
defence or settlement of any claim. The policy also says we shall have full discretion in the 
conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim which is what has happened 
here.
Ive listened to the call provided by Aviva in which they discuss the claim with Mrs G.
During the course of that conversation it was explained that due to the circumstances 
described by the policyholder Aviva would have to pay out on the claim.
So Im satisfied that Aviva did explain things clearly to Mrs G at the time and that she was 
made aware that she would be held liable for the accident. Inevitably, this would then impact 
the cost of her premiums when it came time to renew her policy.
Im satisfied that Aviva conducted a reasonable and proportionate investigation. They 
explained during the disputed call that it is something that would unfortunately go as a claim
against you because unfortunately as the reversing party, we would be seen to liable.
Loss of NCD
Page 22, section 10 of the policy booklet, explains how NCD is affected if a claim is made:
If a claim is made where fault is disputed with another party and we have to make a 
payment, we will reduce your no claim discount unless we recover all sums we have paid 
from those responsible, except where the accident was not your fault, and the driver who 
caused it was uninsured and you have provided us with the other drivers name, their contact 
details (telephone number or address) and their vehicle registration.
Aviva decided to accept the third partys claim and record a fault claim against Mrs G. Its 
usual for a motor insurer to record a fault claim against its policyholder unless it recovers its 
outlay in full from a third party. As a result Mrs G lost her NCD. 
Mrs G may strongly disagree with Avivas interpretation of the evidence and decision to
settle the claim in favour of the third party. She says that she doesnt understand why Aviva 
didnt inspect the third party vehicle and didnt question the length of the car hire claimed for 
by the third party. She says there was no visible damage on either car. So she finds the 
claim suspicious and feels that Aviva shouldnt have authorised it without validating it. 
But Ive seen the claim notes and can see that Aviva felt they had no grounds on which to 
defend the claim from the third party. So I dont think they failed to comply with their policy 
terms or exercised their discretion unfairly or unreasonably when they decided to settle the 
claim in favour of the third party.
I know Mrs G feels that Aviva have only shared part of the recording of the call she had with 
them just after the accident. Ive listened to the 13-minute call, which Mrs G says was 
actually 17 minutes long. She says that Aviva told her that her NCD wouldnt be affected at 
the end of that call and feels that the relevant part is missing from the 13-minute recording. 
Having taken on board Mrs Gs evidence about the length of time the call took, I dont have 
enough evidence to consider it likely that Aviva told Mrs G her NCD would be unaffected by 
the accident. Unfortunately I can only base my decision on the evidence available. 
So I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when they settled the case in the way that they 
did. As they havent done anything wrong, I cant ask them to do any more
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman