DRN-3105710
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr T have complained about the service they received from Zurich Insurance 
PLC in relation to a request for information about a subsidence claim under a buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr T are executors of the estate of X who died in 2017. X owned a property 
which was insured with Zurich. In 2008 X made a subsidence claim. Zurich accepted the 
claim and paid for repairs.
In 2018 Mrs C and Mr T were told that Zurichs repairs had failed. The property needed a lot 
of work to repair the damage or alternatively it needed to be demolished. They tried without 
success to contact Zurich. 
In April 2019 they sent a formal letter of claim to Zurich by recorded delivery. They didnt 
receive a reply or even an acknowledgement although the letter was signed for by Zurich. 
They sent a further letter in June which was also signed for.
In October Mrs C and Mr T complained to Zurich. In December 2019 in its first final decision 
letter Zurich offered them £500 compensation for the lack of a response and told them to 
email a particular email address. They did that in January 2020 but again had no response. 
So they complained again in July. In September Zurich said it would forward their original 
email to someone in the claims team. In October Zurich instructed a loss adjuster to 
investigate the matter. The loss adjuster visited the property in November 2020. In response 
to this complaint Zurich issued a second final decision letter in November 2020 offering 
further compensation of £200 for the delay.
Mrs C and Mr T didnt think this was enough. They brought their complaint to this service. 
They said the delay in responding had caused them immense stress and worry and 
increased legal costs. They also hadnt been able to sell or demolish the property in the 
meantime.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Zurichs offer of compensation was 
fair.
As Mrs C and Mr T didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to look at how Zurich treated Mrs C and Mr T from December 2019 to 
November 2020 being the date of Zurichs second final decision letter. Thats because Mrs C 
and Mr T didnt refer a complaint to us about Zurichs first final decision letter within six 
months of the date of that letter.
This service can only look into complaints brought by or on behalf of eligible complainants. In 
this case X would have been the eligible complainant. Thats because they were the 
consumer who took out the original policy with Zurich. We can only award compensation for 
trouble and upset to eligible complainants. Representatives such as executors who are 
authorised in law to represent consumers arent eligible complainants for our purposes. So I 
cant award compensation for any impact experienced by them personally. That means, 
unfortunately for Mrs C and Mr T, I cant award them compensation for the trouble and upset 
they suffered in their capacity as executors as a result of having to chase Zurich for 
information over a long period of time.
Zurich has explained that it doesnt keep claim records for more than six years for data 
protection reasons. I accept that but I think it could have contacted the loss adjuster sooner 
since, as proved to be the case, the loss adjuster had kept its records from the original claim. 
I think its likely that Xs estate incurred additional costs as a result of avoidable delay on 
Zurichs part, in particular some extra legal costs. These havent been quantified but in the 
circumstances I think the £200 already offered is fair and reasonable to compensate the 
estate for the delay. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr T 
and the estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman