DRN-4287805
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading 
as Barclaycard and who Ill call Barclays, under the chargeback scheme and under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and any part of the payment was made with a credit card, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75, only a 
court can do that. But I take section 75 into account when I think about whether Barclays 
have been reasonable in their response to Mrs Ms claim.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
Im not persuaded there has been a false statement of fact here. The invoice doesnt explain 
what colour had been ordered and a subsequent email on 10 August 2022 explains that the 
colour will be what Mrs M eventually received (anthracite). Theres no false statement there 
and I dont; therefore, think Barclays were unreasonable to reject the claim on that basis.
Was there a breach of contract?
Mrs M appears to have received what was stipulated on the invoice. The colour of the units 
was later relayed via email, and was the colour supplied.
I dont, therefore, think Barclays were unreasonable not to support the argument that the 
contract had been breached. 
Mrs M says the invoice should have stipulated the colour and shes provided a competitors 
quote in which that was the case. It wasnt Barclays role to clarify what should have been in 
the contract. I think any claim about inadequate contract formation, if there is one, would 
need to be addressed to the merchant. It doesnt seem to me that that would be a 
consideration Barclays would need to make when thinking about the claim under section 75 
 that is whether the contract had been breached or misrepresented to Mrs M.
Were the bank reasonable not to pursue the chargeback claim?
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by VISA, and they 
set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim and I dont think they were 
unreasonable not to as on the basis of the information provided I dont think there was a 
prospect of the claim succeeding. There was, for the reasons Ive already given, insufficient 
evidence that what had been ordered hadnt been delivered, or that the goods werent as 
described.
And, as there was insufficient evidence of the goods not being as described Barclays didnt 
need to consider whether the merchant had breached its contract with Mrs M by not 
agreeing to take the goods back  there was no obligation for the merchant to do that.
So, while I understand my decision will be upsetting for Mrs M, I dont think Barclays have 
done anything wrong here and I dont think it would be fair for me to ask them to take any 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman