DRN-3633763
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim a named 
driver made under his motor trade policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P, a named driver under Mr Bs policy was involved in an incident with
another vehicle. Mr P was using trade plates at the time of the incident.
Ageas rejected the claim as it said trade plates could not be loaned or borrowed. It said Mr P
did not have the same entitlement under the policy as Mr B. It said the trade plates owned by
Mr P were insured by a separate insurer. Ageas said it therefore had no insurable interest in
the vehicle.
Mr B complained. He said Ageas didnt explain that there was a separation of entitlement
between him and his business partner Mr P. He understood from the policy that both drivers
had the same level of cover under the policy with Ageas.
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. So Mr B asked us to look at things for him.
Our Investigator didnt think Ageas had acted unreasonably or outside the policy terms.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
7 July 2022. I thought Ageas hadnt shown that its decision to reject Mr Ps claim was fair or 
in line with the policy. So I intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint and ask Ageas to deal with 
his claim. I invited both parties to provide any new information before I made a final decision.
I havent received a reply from Mr B or Ageas. So the case has been passed back to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision has the same outcome as my 
provisional decision. 
The policy schedule provided by Ageas shows the drivers under the policy as Mr B and Mr
P. I cannot see where it draws a distinction between the level of cover provided under the
policy for each driver. So Im unable to see a separation of entitlement. The policy covers Mr
B and Mr P for any car owned or leased under his custody and control.
I cannot see an explanation or an exclusion for cover for Mr P under the policy in relation to
trade plates. I think if Ageas is to rely on such an exclusion, it should be clearly explained
under the policy wording.
I think there was an insurable interest for Ageas in the vehicle involved in the incident. And
so based on the information available to me, I dont think Ageas decision to reject the claim
is fair or reasonable. So Im upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
Ageas should deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions. If the claim 
resulted in a total loss, I think Ageas should pay interest on the settlement minus any 
applicable excess at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of the claim to the date 
it pays Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Deal with Mr Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy.
If the claim is settled as a total loss, Ageas should pay interest on the settlement 
sum at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of the claim to the date it 
pays Mr B minus any applicable excess or balance premium owed under the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman