DRN-3134182
The complaint
Mrs H complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank wont refund a 
payment made on her credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for 
concert tickets.
What happened
In July 2017, Mrs H bought two tickets for a concert in November 2017 using her credit card 
with Tesco Bank. In total, she paid £402.31.
Mrs H says she didnt realise the Website was a secondary ticketing site and that this wasnt 
made clear anywhere on the Website or in its terms and conditions. Mrs H said the tickets 
were in someone elses name and not hers. So, because of this, Mrs H says she didnt 
attend the concert as she didnt want to spend money getting there to then be denied entry. 
Mrs H says other details such as the face value of the tickets nor seat numbers were 
disclosed to her at the time she purchased the tickets.
Tesco Bank looked into Mrs Hs concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They thought 
a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) would be unsuccessful. 
Ultimately, they said having considered Mrs Hs claim, they couldnt see there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation as Mrs H was sent the tickets. Tesco Bank also said 
they didnt feel they had grounds to raise a chargeback claim because they didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator looked into her concerns. Ultimately, he didnt think Tesco Bank had acted 
unfairly by declining Mrs Hs request for a refund. He said Mrs H had entered her card 
details on the Website when purchasing the tickets, therefore, shed authorised the 
transaction. Our Investigator also said that even though the tickets may have had the original 
purchasers name on them, its unlikely this would have affected Mrs Hs ability to attend the 
concert. He also thought there was sufficient information on the Website to show it was a 
secondary ticketing site. So, he didnt think there had been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the Website. Overall, our Investigator didnt think Tesco Bank needed to do 
anything else.
Mrs H disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said she felt misled by the 
Website and that there had been a court ruling carried out which resulted in the Website 
needing to make changes to the way they presented information. Mrs H also clarified that 
the reason she chose not to use the tickets was because she didnt want to pretend to be the 
person named on the ticket. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs H has some concerns about the Website and how it operates. But I must make 
clear that this complaint is about Tesco Bank, as Mrs Hs credit card account provider. The 
Website isnt a financial service provider and as it doesnt fall within my remit, Im unable to 
look at a complaint against them directly. I can only consider whether Mrs H authorised 
Tesco Bank to debit her account with the value of the payment, and whether Tesco Bank 
should have helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way. 
Mrs H says she made the transaction for these tickets, knew the amount she was paying 
and was willing to purchase the tickets at that price. But says the Website didnt provide any 
information on the true face value of the tickets. Mrs H doesnt argue she didnt go to the 
website and buy the tickets on her credit card. So, having considered what Mrs H has said 
(including that she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence of Tesco 
Bank, Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised and correctly applied to Mrs Hs 
credit card account with Tesco Bank.
I note Mrs H has made reference to a court ruling made in relation to the Website in 2018. 
However, this isnt something Im able to comment on as my decision is looking at the 
actions of Tesco Bank and whether theyve acted unfairly towards Mrs H. And the question 
of whether or not Tesco Bank have treated Mrs H unfairly is the only question I can decide 
upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently 
clear. With that in mind, Ive gone on to consider whether I think Tesco Bank could have 
helped with her payment dispute against the Website in any other way.
could Tesco Bank challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mrs H does 
here, Tesco Bank (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair 
for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success, for example where goods arent received, or it appears that 
the payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder. 
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where chargeback has 
been successful. But I dont think Tesco Bank couldve challenged the payment on the basis 
Mrs H didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion Ive already set out.
Mrs H argues that the Website didnt make clear it was a secondary ticketing site and she 
was led to believe she was buying tickets from a party permitted to sell tickets. Having 
looked into the Website and their terms and conditions, Im not persuaded this information 
was misrepresented to Mrs H. I say this because I think there are prominent messages on 
the Website which explain that theyre a secondary ticketing site.
I understand Mrs H chose not to go to the concert as her name wasnt on the tickets and 
instead, the original purchasers name was. Whilst I understand Mrs H didnt think shed be 
granted entry, I havent seen anything to suggest this would have been the case. So, I dont 
think Tesco Bank could challenge the Website on the basis that Mrs H didnt get what she 
ordered. Or that she wasnt able to use the tickets to gain entry to the event.
Tesco Bank are required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success 
when considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. Bearing in mind Mrs 
H says she wanted to buy the tickets, authorised the transaction and got the tickets, Tesco 
Banks decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a chargeback is fair 
and reasonable in my opinion. So, Im not persuaded Tesco Bank acted unfairly here.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?As the payment was made using a credit card, I have also taken into account how Section 
75 applies to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mrs H has an equal right to claim 
against Tesco Bank as she does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (the Website) if certain conditions are met. 
My role isnt to decide Tesco Banks liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires 
me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, 
such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions in this case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers. 
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website 
provides a service. And for this they charge buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says they: 
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service. 
So, in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs H who is the 
debtor, Tesco Bank who is the creditor and the Website who is the provider - although not 
for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website provides a service. 
The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee.
With this in mind, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as 
venue, date, time, and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the 
guarantee, theyre responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller 
doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying the tickets. However, the Website are a 
secondary ticket selling website. This means the tickets are purchased through the Website 
from a third-party seller (who isnt representing the Website).
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. In this 
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mrs H paid. But I can see from her credit 
card statement that she was charged a total of £402.31. From our research, weve found that 
the Websites fee makes up about a third of the total cost. One third of £402.31 is around 
£134. So, I think its more likely than not the Websites fee for their service in this case was 
more than £100 and less than £30,000. This means I think Mrs H could have a valid claim 
under Section 75.
So, Ive established that the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 
about the service the Website provided, and that the cash price of that service is sufficient 
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
Mrs H has told us she wasnt made aware that the tickets would have someone elses name 
on them  namely the original purchasers name. But the Website offers a service whereby 
they provide a guarantee for the tickets. Under this guarantee, the Website say they will take 
action (either by sourcing replacement tickets or in some cases, offering a refund) if it is 
proven the tickets are invalid. The terms on the Website itself also confirm that in some instances the original purchaser's name may be printed on the tickets, it also explains the 
tickets are valid and that a buyers name doesnt need to match the name printed on the 
ticket to gain entry to an event. And as Ive seen, the Website provided Mrs H with the tickets 
she purchased and in time for the concert. Having carefully considered this, Im not 
persuaded the Website failed to fulfil its part of the contract  or that it didnt do what it was 
supposed to. As Ive already explained, it was Mrs Hs decision not to go to the event, rather 
than the tickets preventing her from going to the event, I havent seen anything which 
persuades me that the tickets werent valid. So, I dont think theres been a breach of 
contract here.
Mrs H also argues that she wasnt told about the face value of the tickets and she wasnt 
provided with information about the seat location. This service has built up a thorough 
understanding of the websites processes and what consumers saw as they navigated 
through the sales process. This includes screenshots of the purchase process from October 
2017, which I think is more likely than not, the same steps Mrs H followed when she 
purchased the tickets. Having thought about this, while the face value of the tickets may 
have been a different price to what Mrs H paid, Im satisfied the full price of the tickets was 
displayed to Mrs H before completing the purchase and that she entered the details of her 
debit card with a view to purchasing the tickets. And even if I accept Mrs H may not have 
been given the specific seat numbers at the time of purchase, Ive not seen any evidence 
which shows Mrs H didnt get the tickets that she paid for or in the section she selected at 
the time. With all of this in mind, I dont think the Website misrepresented the information, or 
the tickets Mrs H purchased. 
Mrs H has also said it wasnt clear that the Website was a secondary ticket website, 
otherwise known as a ticket reselling Website. Ive considered this and how the Website 
looked around the time and also the Websites terms and conditions. And Im satisfied it 
made clear it was a ticket reselling website and not the original seller of the tickets.
was there anything else within the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that Tesco Bank should have 
considered? 
Even though Ive made the finding that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I 
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary, Section 56 has the effect of making the Website the agent of Tesco Bank 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs H entering into a transaction with 
them. So, essentially, this means Tesco Bank are responsible for the acts or omissions of 
the Website and what was said or done before the transaction was entered in to and 
conducted by the Website, in other words, Tesco Bank have to stand behind the things the 
Website said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process. 
For a valid claim under Section 56, there has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place - which is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However, unlike 
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the 
impact of Section 56 and whether Tesco Bank ought to have considered this in Mrs Hs 
case.
With this in mind, Ive thought about whether the Website misrepresented the information, or 
the tickets Mrs H purchased. As previously explained, from the evidence I have, I can see 
the total price is displayed on the final page before Mrs H would have been asked to enter 
her card details. So, I think its more likely than not Mrs H would have been made aware of 
the total cost of the tickets  even though this cost may have been different to the face value 
of the tickets. I also havent seen any evidence which shows the Website misrepresented the seat location. Having thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded the Website 
misrepresented the tickets to Mrs H.
Additionally, as Ive already explained, I think the Website and its terms and conditions made 
clear that they were a ticket reselling site. And I dont think this information was 
misrepresented to Mrs H.
In summary, Ive considered everything Mrs H has said and I appreciate this will likely come 
as a disappointment to her. However, I think she authorised Tesco Bank to debit her credit 
card account with the value of the transaction to the Website, so I think it was fair for them to 
do that. I also dont think Tesco Bank acted unfairly when considering Mrs Hs chargeback 
and Section 75 claim. And had Tesco Bank considered Mrs Hs claim under Section 56, I 
dont think they would have acted unfairly by declining it. With this in mind, I wont be asking 
Tesco Bank to refund Mrs H for the tickets.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman