DRN-2782888
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected his claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty television.
What happened
The facts are set out in full in the view issued by our investigator on 13 April 2021 and I will 
not rehearse them here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
There is limited documentary evidence on this complaint and it is unusual the merchant has 
no record of taking back the faulty television. That is what led our investigator to her original 
conclusion that it should not be upheld. However, Mr G has provided credible and consistent 
testimony as to what happened and I find it hard to conclude that he has concocted a story 
about returning a faulty television.
The documentary evidence shows that while his old 50 set was being repaired he visited a 
store and bought a new one. That one he took home and he says he discovered it was 
damaged when he got home. He says he spoke to the merchant by phone and it agreed to 
take it back. He says it was collected by the merchant. The following day he ordered a new 
set from the same merchant but did so online and it was delivered that day. 
Mr G says he visited the merchant to pursue his refund and says he was told by a manager 
that they would get back to him. He called again and says he was told to contact AESEL. Mr 
G managed to obtain his call logs. These show he called the store twice on 14 May and 
again on 20 May. He has explained the first two were to discuss the situation and he had 
been told to go to the store. The third call was to the store to let them know he was coming 
in to see the manager.
AESEL has said it should be allowed to reconsider the claim in the light of the phone log 
which Mr G provide and our investigator agreed. However, it concluded that as Mr G had 
made two purchases and was having a third set repaired the calls could be related to any 
number of issues. I can see that line of argument, but it discounts Mr Gs testimony. AESEL 
said it was seeking internal legal advice, but it has not come back and I see no reason to 
delay a decision further.
I have also considered the merchants lack of records about the return of the damaged set. It 
appears this was collected by the people delivering the set ordered online and it may well be 
that there was some confusion about this return given it had been picked up by Mr G from 
the store. 
I appreciate we have no independent evidence of the damage, but if one accepts the set 
was taken back by the merchant and has disappeared then I do not consider the issue of 
damage to be significant. On balance I am satisfied that Mr G has paid for a television which 
was taken back by the merchant so he is out of pocket.
So, while I consider this be a finely balanced decision, I believe Mr Gs version of events and 
the limited additional evidence is sufficient to allow me to uphold his complaint. 
Putting things right
I consider the claim should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct American Express Services 
Europe Limited to refund £3,848.99 to Mr Gs account and recalculate any interest it has 
charged on that sum since it appeared in his account. Any interest overcharged should be 
credited to the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman