DRN-2527424
The complaint
Miss H and Mrs H complain because TICORP Limited have charged an administration fee 
for cancelling their travel insurance policy. 
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited, and Ive referred to TICORP Limited as 
Staysure throughout this decision.    
What happened
Miss H and Mrs H bought a single trip travel insurance policy from Staysure on 14 March 
2020. The policy was purchased online and cost £39.59. Cancellation cover under the policy 
started immediately, and the policy had a cover end date of 28 May 2020. 
Miss H and Mrs H later attempted to add optional travel disruption extension (TDE) cover to 
their policy but were unable to do so, so they contacted Staysure and asked to cancel their 
travel insurance policy on 17 March 2020. Staysure said Miss H and Mrs H could cancel the 
policy and receive a voucher for the full amount of the premiums theyd paid. Alternatively, 
Staysure said Miss H and Mrs H could have a refund of the premiums theyd paid less a £25 
administration fee. 
Miss H and Mrs H wanted a full refund and complained to Staysure. Staysure said its terms 
of business say policies cancelled within the first 14 days of purchase will be subject to a 
£25 administration fee, so it wouldnt be refunding the full premiums to Miss H and Mrs H. 
Unhappy, Miss H and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he didnt think the £25 
administration fee for cancelling the policy had been made clear to Miss H and Mrs H at the 
time the policy was sold. So, he recommended that Staysure shouldnt charge the 
cancellation fee. 
Staysure didnt agree, so Miss H and Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business) 
say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
FCA guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss H and Mrs Hs 
complaint, Ive had regard to these rules and guidance. Ive also taken into account the rules 
set out in the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS).   
ICOBS 7.1.1 says a consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any 
reason, certain contracts within 14 days. This is called the right to cancel and I think this 
right to cancel applies to the contact of insurance Miss H and Mrs H held. Miss H and Mrs H 
exercised their right to cancel by asking Staysure to cancel their travel insurance policy 
within the first 14 days of purchasing it.  
ICOBS 7.2 deals with payment by a consumer for the service provided before cancellation. A 
consumer may be required to pay an amount on cancellation including any sums that a firm 
has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract  but this shouldnt include any element 
of profit. The amount payable must not:
exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already 
provided in comparison with the full cover of the contract; and
in any case be such that it could be construed as a penalty.
ICOBS 7.2.2 (3) says;
A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount 
payable
Staysure says the £25 administration fee charged to Miss H and Mrs H reflects its costs in 
administering the policy on behalf of the underwriter. However, Staysure is only entitled to 
charge this fee if it can demonstrate that Miss H and Mrs H were duly informed about the 
amount payable when the policy was sold. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Staysure showing the sales process for Miss H 
and Mrs Hs policy. Before proceeding with the purchase of the policy, Miss H and Mrs H 
were asked to tick a box to confirm they had read and accepted Staysures terms of 
business. Miss H and Mrs H couldnt have gone ahead and bought the policy without ticking 
this box. 
When clicking on the displayed hyperlink to Staysures terms of business, Miss H and Mrs H 
would have been presented with two options  one terms of business for travel insurance 
policies, and a second terms of business for a different type of insurance. Upon selecting the 
terms of business for travel insurance, Miss H and Mrs H would have seen details about the 
£25 administration fee displayed towards the end of page two. 
Staysures terms of business for travel insurance policies, at page two, say:
Your Cancellation Rights
You have the right to cancel new or renewed policies within 14 days of purchase or 
from the date you receive your documents, whichever is later. If the policy is 
cancelled within 14 days, you will receive a full premium refund less an 
administration fee of £25.
Staysure says its the consumers responsibility to ensure they have read the terms of 
business before ticking the box on the online sales process confirming this, thereby allowing 
the policy purchase to proceed. And I agree it may have been reasonable for Staysure to expect Miss H and Mrs H to read information which was relevant to their policy in order to 
satisfy themselves that they understood the terms and conditions of the cover being 
purchased. 
However, Staysures sales process didnt only rely on Miss H and Mrs H ticking a box to 
confirm theyd clicked on a link to read the terms of business. The sales journey also relied 
on Miss H and Mrs H then choosing the correct terms of business which was relevant to their 
policy and reading through almost two pages of information before the £25 administration 
fee was mentioned. 
In light of this, I dont think it was clear or prominent from Staysures online sales process 
that an administration fee would be charged, or what the amount of that administration fee 
would be if Miss H and Mrs H cancelled the policy in the 14-day cooling off period. So, it 
follows that I dont think I can fairly say Miss H and Mrs H were duly informed about the 
administration fee for cancelling their policy within the first 14 days, in line with Staysures 
requirements under ICOBS. 
Miss H and Mrs H have also complained that Staysure gave them incorrect information 
about the availability of TDE cover. Im satisfied, based on the information Ive seen, that the 
underwriter of the TDE cover had stopped offering this product for sale at the time Miss H 
and Mrs H attempted to buy it on 16 March 2020. 
Theres a dispute about whether or not Miss H and Mrs H would have been able to buy TDE 
cover when the main travel insurance policy was purchased on 14 March 2020. But, even 
accepting that TDE would have been available to buy on 14 March 2020, based on the 
information Ive seen I cant fairly say Miss H and Mrs H have lost out financially and would 
otherwise have had a successful TDE claim as a result of any incorrect information provided 
by Staysure about this optional additional cover. Staysure has provided Miss H and Mrs H 
with a voucher for £25 to use against a future Staysure policy in recognition of the issues 
they experienced with adding TDE cover and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
TICORP Limited needs to put things right and do the following;
refund Miss H and Mrs H the full premiums they paid for their travel insurance policy.
TICORP Limited should add interest to this payment at 8% simple per annum from the date 
the policy was cancelled until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss H and Mrs Hs complaint against TICORP Limited and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman