DRN-3379102
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC threatened her with court action to take 
possession of her property, for a debt which isnt hers and despite knowing about her health 
and financial situation. 
What happened
Mrs L has a Barclays mortgage with her now ex-husband, Mr L. The mortgage is linked to a 
mortgage current account (MCA), which has a secured overdraft facility.
In or about 2009, Mr and Mrs L separated. At around the same time, they visited a Barclays 
branch and arranged to remove Mrs Ls name from the MCA. The mortgage continued to be 
in both their names. Mr and Mrs L later divorced. Mrs L remained living in the mortgaged 
property, and says she has been paying the mortgage on her own ever since, without any 
support from Mr L.
In around 2015, Mrs L found out that the balance on the MCA had gone over the overdraft 
limit. The debt was around £30,000. Barclays said it should never have taken her name off 
the MCA, and it put Mrs L back on the account.
In 2016, Mrs L made a complaint to Barclays about this. She said she was unhappy that it 
had taken her name off the MCA, Mr L had run up a significant debt without her knowledge, 
and Barclays had then put her name back on the account and told her she was liable for the 
MCA debt. 
Mrs L then brought this complaint to us, and it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. 
Following our involvement, Barclays agreed to pay Mrs L up to £500 to cover the cost of an 
appointment with a family solicitor so she could get independent, professional advice about 
her options. Mrs L went ahead and took advice in 2017, and Barclays paid for it.
In early 2020, Mrs L received notice from Barclays of a court hearing for possession of her 
home. She got back in touch with us and made a new complaint. She also said the advice 
she had taken following her earlier complaint hadnt resolved anything, and Barclays hadnt 
tried to come to any arrangement with her about the MCA; instead, it had threatened legal 
action out of the blue.  
Barclays said it had responded to Mrs Ls complaint about her liability for the MCA debt in 
2016, and the Financial Ombudsman Service had looked at that complaint as well. It said it 
wouldnt reconsider the matter again now but legal action had been stopped as Mrs L had 
approached us.
Our investigator thought Barclays hadnt treated Mrs L fairly, and that it should work with her 
to find a solution for the MCA debt, and pay her £500 compensation. Neither Mrs L nor 
Barclays accepted that conclusion. 
Mrs L said she would reluctantly accept responsibility for half of the money spent on the 
MCA before her name was taken off the account in 2009. She would agree to pay that back 
when the mortgage term ends in around seven years time, since she wont be in a position 
to move before then. She said her preference, however, would be for Barclays to write off 
the debt on the MCA. 
Barclays said it wanted time to review things, but then said it had nothing more to add.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I said:
As a starting point, Mr and Mrs L agreed when they took out the mortgage and MCA that 
they would be jointly and severally liable to repay debts on both accounts. Thats how such 
accounts generally operate and these ones are no exception: Mr and Mrs Ls joint and 
several liability is set out in the account terms. What this means is that Barclays could ask 
Mr L or Mrs L, or both of them, to repay all of the debt on the accounts. It doesnt mean that 
Barclays could only ask Mr and Mrs L for half each.
Here, however, matters have been complicated by the fact that Barclays removed Mrs Ls 
name from the MCA in 2009 and put it back on again around six years later. Barclays has 
since accepted it should never have taken her name off the account in the first place. It has 
also said Mrs L has complained about this before, and she cant resurrect that complaint 
now.
As far as I can see, from our own records and those Barclays has provided, Mrs Ls previous 
complaint was never fully resolved. The plan was that Mrs L would go and get legal advice, 
which Barclays would pay for  and thats what happened. Mrs L and Barclays were then to 
discuss next steps and come to an agreement  and that didnt happen. Instead, there 
followed the legal action which Mrs L is complaining about now.
Mrs L continues to argue that she shouldnt be responsible for debt run up on the MCA by Mr 
L in the years when she wasnt party to the account. I accept that she understood the MCA 
was no longer anything to do with her  she had, after all, visited a Barclays branch and 
signed paperwork to come off the account, and handed back her debit card and cheque 
book.
So I can certainly understand Mrs Ls point. However, I dont think it would be either fair or 
appropriate for me to decide that Mr L should be solely responsible for all the money that 
was spent on the MCA, for reasons Ill go on to explain.
Importantly, Im not satisfied that Mrs L received no benefit from the payments which were 
made from the MCA after she was removed from it. Barclays records show that it looked 
into this in 2016 and found that regular direct debit payments had been made to a number of 
companies, including financial services providers, after Mrs L was taken off the account in 
2009. It concluded that some of the payments were to an endowment policy which had been 
running alongside the mortgage, and to a life policy in Mrs Ls name  with the final payment 
to the life policy having been made in 2015. Its records include a note saying Mrs L would 
make her own enquiries about what the various policies were for, and that, amongst other 
things, she told it in March 2016: she was aware of some policy that Mr had cashed in and 
had paid her car loan off with and kept the surplus (approx. 15k). Im also mindful that Mr L 
isnt party to this complaint, and I dont know his side of the story.
Against this background, I find I cant fairly conclude that Barclays shouldnt be entitled to 
hold Mrs L responsible for the MCA, or to charge interest on the balance. While Mrs L wasnt 
named on the account for a period of time, the available evidence indicates that she 
benefited from some of the payments made from it during that time. In the circumstances, I think that how responsibility for the MCA debt is apportioned between Mr and Mrs L is a 
matter for them, rather than for Barclays.
I think its also important to note that there is some considerable equity in the property which, 
as I understand things, is to be shared between Mr and Mrs L when the property is 
eventually sold. In 2018, a field agent estimated the propertys value at around £345,000. 
The combined mortgage and MCA balance was around £150,000 at that time. How the 
equity is to be divided between Mr and Mrs L is a matter between them, and I see no reason 
why they shouldnt be in a position to take account of the spending on the MCA in working 
out how much each of them should get. Indeed, that approach appears to be in line with the 
independent advice which Mrs L received in 2017.
However, thats not the end of the matter. While Mrs L has been able to afford to pay the 
mortgage on her own since 2009, she says shes on a low income and isnt in a position to 
pay anything towards the MCA. She and one of the children who lives with her also have 
significant health issues and Mrs L is the childs carer. She has said that theyre not in a 
position to sell the property and move now, given her finances and the childrens education 
and medical needs. I think its clear that the family is vulnerable, and selling now would be 
difficult. It also seems disproportionate for them to have to do so given the background and 
the circumstances in which the MCA debt arose.   
In these particular circumstances, I dont consider that it would be fair for Barclays to take 
steps to take possession of the property before the mortgage comes to the end of its term in 
2028  subject to Mrs L maintaining the monthly payments to the mortgage. The mortgage 
isnt in arrears, and given the level of equity in the property, suspending any action because 
of the MCA debt wouldnt appear to represent a risk to Barclays being able to recover its 
money in due course.
This isnt to say that Barclays and Mrs L shouldnt discuss the MCA during that time. Interest 
will continue to accrue on it, so if Mrs L (or indeed Mr L) is in a position to make payments 
towards it, that can only help the situation. And if the MCA balance is reduced through those 
payments, bringing it below the current overdraft limit, given the dispute between Mrs L and 
Mr L, Barclays should not allow further spending on the account.
I also consider Barclays should refund the legal fees it has applied to the mortgage and/or 
MCA since 2016. Im satisfied that it has known about Mrs Ls situation and her difficult 
circumstances since 2017 at the latest: through Mrs Ls earlier complaint and also from a 
letter sent to it by a housing charity. There were no mortgage arrears, it knew the 
background to the MCA debt and Mrs Ls vulnerability, yet it continued with its standard debt 
recovery action  instead of referring her to its specialist panel as it had said it would do in 
2017. I think it should have done more to try to engage with Mrs L instead of starting 
possession proceedings when it did.
Mrs L has said she has found this whole matter very stressful. She had to face the prospect 
of a court hearing and possibly losing her home, because of a debt for which she didnt 
consider herself responsible and with little engagement from Barclays. I think Barclays has 
dealt with this whole matter poorly and caused Mrs L a considerable amount of avoidable 
upset. I provisionally find that Mrs L should receive £750 compensation in recognition of this. 
Putting things right
I consider that liability for the MCA debt is for Mr and Mrs L to sort out between themselves 
once the property is sold. But I consider the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with this 
whole matter has fallen short and to put things right it should: - re-work the mortgage without any legal fees, field agent fees, and other debt recovery 
costs that have been applied in connection with the MCA debt, in such a way that any 
interest on those fees is also refunded;
- ensure no further payments, other than interest, can be made from the MCA, if it hasnt 
already done so; and
- pay Mrs L (directly, not by way of a credit to the mortgage or the MCA) £750 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mrs L nor Barclays accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs L said she still feels very strongly about the MCA debt and that Barclays is to blame for 
taking her name off the account and preventing her from doing anything about her ex-
husband running up the debt. Other than a car loan being paid off, she hadnt received any 
benefit from the money spent on the MCA, even if Mr L had paid into policies in her name. 
She would prefer the debt to be written off, or that Mr L should pay it, but she is open to 
discussing paying half of it once the mortgage comes to the end of its term. She is keen to 
come to some sort of agreement to bring an end to the extreme stress and trauma this 
matter is causing. She also feels she should receive much more compensation because of 
the stress Barclays has caused her and the impact of the MCA debt on her credit file. 
Barclays said it had a number of questions about Mrs Ls situation. It asked for documents 
setting out the legal advice she had received in 2017, the court order for Mr and Mrs Ls 
divorce settlement, income and expenditure information, and medical evidence. Without all 
of this it said it couldnt say whether or not it accepted my provisional conclusions.
It also said the main mortgage is in fact in arrears by around £800, and it has concerns 
about whether Mrs L can afford to pay the mortgage, even leaving the MCA to one side. It is 
concerned about interest accruing on the MCA, reducing the equity in the property and 
affecting both Mrs Ls and Mr Ls credit files if no payments are made. It pointed to attempts 
it had made to discuss Mrs Ls circumstances with her but said she wouldnt engage with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having taken account of both parties further comments, Ive reached 
the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
It wouldnt be fair for me to apportion liability for the MCA debt between Mrs L and Mr L. That 
is a matter between them, as I explained in my provisional decision. And it wouldnt be fair 
for me to require Barclays to write off the debt or stop charging interest on it either. That 
money has been spent, and both Mrs L and Mr L have had some benefit from it.
Mrs L has said she wouldnt be in the position shes in now if shed sold the property before 
Barclays put her name back on the MCA. But the MCA debt is secured on the property, just 
as the main mortgage is  so, had the property been sold at any point, the debt on both the 
mortgage and the MCA would have been repaid from the sale proceeds. Sale wouldnt have 
meant the MCA debt could have gone unpaid.Barclays has said it cant decide whether to accept my provisional decision without knowing 
more about Mrs Ls situation. My decision doesnt prevent Barclays and Mrs L from working 
together to find a way forward; quite the opposite, in fact  it should help them both to move 
on, by drawing a line under this complaint. I would expect them to communicate openly with 
one another to see if an affordable solution can be found. But my role here isnt to relay 
information between them; its to come to a fair and reasonable outcome on the complaint 
Ive been asked to decide.
Barclays has also said Mrs L hasnt been prepared to engage with it in the past. I can see 
that it made some attempts to discuss things with her. But it didnt refer Mrs L to its specialist 
panel as it had said it would, and its contact with her didnt take into account the context of 
this dispute about liability for the MCA debt and Mrs Ls and her familys vulnerability  all of 
which it knew about. 
I have noted Barclays point that the main mortgage is currently in some arrears, but this 
doesnt affect my decision. I see no reason why Barclays shouldnt discuss payment of 
arrears on the main mortgage with Mrs L, and it may ultimately decide to take debt recovery 
action if appropriate and bearing in mind Mrs Ls particular circumstances. It is only the MCA 
debt on which it should suspend further action until the mortgage reaches the end of its term 
in 2028.  
The roll-up of interest on the MCA is a relevant consideration, as is the impact of no 
payments being made on Mrs Ls credit file. Thats why I said in my provisional decision that 
Barclays and Mrs L (and Mr L) should discuss the MCA and whether there is scope for any 
payments to be made to it. I still consider that can only help the situation. 
I have also noted what Mrs L has said about the impact of this whole matter on her health 
and wellbeing, and I recognise that she has found it very stressful. But I dont think I can 
fairly hold Barclays responsible for the health problems she has had, and I remain of the 
view that £750 is a fair award for the impact on her of Barclays failings.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
- not take action to take possession of the property because of arrears on the MCA before 
the mortgage comes to the end of its term in 2028  subject to Mrs L maintaining the 
monthly payments to the main mortgage;
- re-work the mortgage without any legal fees, field agent fees, and other debt recovery 
costs that have been applied in connection with the MCA debt, in such a way that any 
interest on those fees is also refunded;
- ensure no further payments, other than interest, can be made from the MCA, if it hasnt 
already done so; and
- pay Mrs L (directly, not by way of a credit to the mortgage or the MCA) £750 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman