DRN-4325899
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax havent refunded her the 
£49.99 she claimed under the Chargeback Scheme. She would like this sum refunded and 
more compensation for the cost of phone calls than the £50 Halifax has already paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate Miss Ks frustration. As I understand it  despite her Chargeback Claim 
for a refund for a subscription failing she says Halifax agreed to refund the cost of the 
subscription anyway but hasnt done so. And  the merchant also told her it refunded 
her, but the refund  hasnt reached her account.
In terms of the Chargeback Halifax submitted a claim under the Continuous Payment 
Authority (CPA) reason as the payment in question related to a subscription charge. I 
should make it clear that there is no guarantee that submitting a claim means a claim 
will succeed. The information from Halifax notes as to why the claim failed is 
confusing. They  refer to the merchant declining the request as the cancellation was 
made after the payment had been taken. Halifaxs  final response letter  says the 
claim failed as there was no indication a refund  had been offered at the time the 
claim was made. A subsequent attempt to consider another Chargeback claim  
based on a refund not received failed as the scheme rules dont allow for multiple 
disputes to be raised for the same transaction. Although the information is confusing I 
am persuaded that Halifax submitted a first Chargeback claim that didnt succeed 
and was unable to submit a second claim due to scheme rules. I dont think under the 
chargeback scheme it could have done any more.
Looking at Miss Ks claim that Halifax agreed to refund her the money, we have 
asked Halifax about this, and it has replied to say it has no evidence this was offered. 
Having looked at the complaint notes supplied I can also find no evidence this offer 
was made. So, I cant reasonably ask Halifax to refund the sum in question based on 
an offer to do so when I have no evidence to support this
Miss K has also said that the merchant  told her it refunded the money but his isnt 
showing in her account. The information Miss K provided from the merchant is 
unclear . It says Halifax initiated a refund - this may refer to the chargeback process 
where typically refunds are made but can be taken back if merchants successfully 
defend claims.  The information doesnt state that the merchant made a payment 
direct to Miss Ks account after the chargeback request failed.  We have gone back 
to Halifax about this . It has confirmed that as the chargeback claim failed any refund 
would come back directly from the merchant. It has no record that any refund from 
the merchant has been made to Miss Ks account. It doesnt appear to me that the 
merchant  made the refund Miss K thinks it  agreed. So unfortunately,   Miss K will 
need to resolve this direct with the merchant
Finally, Miss K isnt happy with the £50  compensation for the cost of phone calls that 
she has made. There are inevitably some costs incurred when things go wrong but  I 
think the sum awarded is reasonable as a contribution from Halifax who I believe did 
offer to consider further costs if Miss K evidenced these.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman