DRN-4319039
The complaint
Mrs D complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) poor service following a claim 
under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs D held a home emergency policy with BG and had been a customer for over 10 years. 
During this time Mrs D experienced issues with her boiler and heating system. Over the 
years BG had attended and carried out a power flush, as well as additional flushes in an 
attempt to clear blockages that had formed in the system. And resulted in some radiators not 
heating efficiently. 
BG said that since 2015, it had advised Mrs D to replace her boiler as the boiler was on its 
reduced parts list (which meant that it was difficult to source parts for repairs to the boiler). It 
also advised her in 2018 that there was likely an issue with her pipes in her home, which 
would mean that the pipes would need to be replaced (or re-piped). As BG classed the re-
piping as an upgrade, this wouldnt have been covered under Mrs Ds policy. And would 
mean that she would have to pay for this work to be carried out. 
In 2022, Mrs D contacted BG as she had some radiators that emitted poor heat. BG sent an 
engineer who advised that Mrs D would need her pipes replaced. But also said that a 
second opinion would be sought from a senior engineer. 
BG sent the senior engineer a few days later and after he inspected the system, he advised 
that she needed to replace her boiler. Mrs D followed BGs advice and had the boiler 
replaced, which she paid for. 
Mrs D said that despite the boiler being replaced, the same issue occurred. So, she raised a 
complaint to BG. She said that had BG not advised her to replace her boiler (that she said 
was working perfectly) she wouldve had enough money to pay for the pipes to be replaced. 
She felt that due to the error, BG ought to refund her the cost of the boiler installation, so that 
she was able to pay for the pipes to be replaced. 
In its final response, BG said that it had previously recommended that the boiler be replaced 
due to the age and efficiency. It also said that it had given the correct advice regarding the 
pipework. It noted that there had been a power flush carried out in 2013, that hadnt been 
successful and for this, it refunded Mrs D £618.99. But would not agree to any further 
compensation. 
Mrs D was unhappy with the outcome and referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and ultimately recommended that BG pay Mrs D 
£600 compensation, due to BG not taking reasonable action in 2018, when it recommended 
that Mrs D replace her pipes. She thought that BG was fair not to refund the boiler 
installation costs, as BG had, since 2015, recommended that Mrs D replace the boiler. 
Both parties didnt agree with the view. BG had previously indicated that it would pay Mrs D 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It said that it had done everything that 
it could do, from power flushes to re-flushes. It had recommended that Mrs D re-pipe her 
home since 2018 and twice in 2022. But had still attended despite the policy terms and 
conditions, that stated that where it recommended to make improvements to the system, and 
the recommendation wasnt followed, it mightnt attend until the improvement had been 
completed. It also stated that the re-piping was an improvement to the system which 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Mrs D said that had BG carried out the power flushes and re-flushes correctly, then she 
believed that there wouldnt be an issue with the pipes at all. And to replace the pipework in 
her home would be very expensive.
So, both parties asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 August 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
September 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely 
to be a disappointment to Mrs D, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is 
fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether BG had acted promptly and 
took reasonable action when dealing with Mrs Ds pipework. 
Dealing with the issue of whether BG ought to refund Mrs D the cost of the boiler (including 
the installation), Im satisfied that BG were fair in not refunding this cost. Since 2015, BG had 
advised Mrs D that she would need to replace her boiler, due to its age, efficiency and 
because it had been placed on a reduced parts list. Although, I understand that Mrs D said 
that the boiler was still operational, I dont think that BG were incorrect to recommend its 
replacement, given the reasons it outlined. 
Ive next looked at whether BG had acted promptly regarding the pipework issue. Mrs D said 
that had BG carried out the power flush and re-flushes correctly, she would not have needed 
to replace her pipework. 
Apart from the power flush that had been carried out in 2013, in which BG accepted that this 
one had failed, I havent been provided with any expert evidence from Mrs D, that could 
support her contention that the power flushes or the re-flushes had failed. 
BG has refunded Mrs D £618.99 for the failed power flush, which I think is fair. I have 
reviewed the work history record and I can see that in 2018, there were three flushes that 
took place. But following on from this the next flush took place in 2021. From the evidence, I think that this shows that the flushes were successful as it appears to have cleared the 
blockage for a while, before Mrs D had to call BG again. So, unless Mrs D has or can 
provide expert evidence that is to the contrary, then Im satisfied that BG had correctly 
carried out the flushes as and when it needed to. 
In addition, BG said that the re-flushes often were carried out on different sections of piping. 
So, I dont think it was the same area, all the time, that had a re-flush being carried out. 
Turning to the actions that BG took regarding Mrs Ds pipework. In 2018, BG attended Mrs 
Ds home. On the work history record that I have reviewed it said that the BG engineer had 
advised Mrs D to re-pipe her home. It stated that a re-flush had been carried out and Mrs D 
hadnt accepted the advice to re-pipe her home. Then again in 2021, Mrs D was advised that 
a re-pipe was required and finally in 2022, Mrs D was advised again that a re-pipe was 
required. 
BG said that a re-pipe would be classed as an upgrade to Mrs Ds system and as such, it 
wouldnt be covered under the policy and would be chargeable. Given that Mrs D had been 
advised since 2018 to re-pipe her home and she chose not to do so, I cant agree that BG 
were at fault here. 
But BG did advise her to change the boiler in 2022, which didnt resolve the issue with the 
pipes. And as it agreed to pay £200 for compensation for this poor service, I think its fair that 
BG pay Mrs D £200 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think its fair for BG to reimburse the cost of the 
boiler and its installation. I do think its reasonable for BG to pay Mrs D £200 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused by not advising the re-piping work sooner. 
I appreciate that Mrs D wouldve liked BG to refund the boiler, which wouldve meant that 
she could then pay for her pipework. But I think that BG had informed Mrs D on a few 
occasions that her pipework needed replacing, so it wouldnt be fair to recommend that it 
reimburse the new boiler costs. 
Responses to my provisional decision
BG accepted the provisional decision. 
Mrs D made a number of detailed comments. Essentially, she did not agree with my 
provisional decision. I have carefully considered all of the comments that Mrs D has made. 
But, as an informal dispute resolution service, it isnt necessary for us to address each, and 
every point raised. I hope that Mrs D doesnt take exception to this, but Ive outlined a 
summary of the comments she has made.
Mrs D felt that BGs record keeping wasnt transparent to its customers. That when its 
engineers had attended, they had merely told her verbally that there might be an issue with 
her pipes, on the basis of hearsay (she felt), without actually inspecting the pipes. She said 
that some of the re-flushes (as they were small) were ineffective as she had been led to 
believe this from the BG engineers. She question why this hadnt been reflected in any of the 
BG paperwork, that could be visible to its customers.
Mrs D also said that the engineer who requested a second opinion from a senior engineer, 
wouldnt commit to a diagnosis, otherwise she question why a senior engineer was required 
at all. Finally, Mrs D reiterated that BG werent transparent to its customers, and this was 
unfair and perhaps illegal. As it left its customers unprotected and improvements to this were 
needed here. I have carefully considered the further comments that Mrs D made. And because of the 
comments, I asked BG to respond to them. 
BG replied. It said that its engineers usually leave checklists at customers properties during 
their visit.  There was a period of time when the sheets were not left due to COVID, so it is 
possible that none were left on some occasions.  It doesnt hold copies of the checklists so 
we wouldnt know exactly when ones were left and which ones werent, if any. 
The engineers complete the record in their van after leaving the property  this is completed 
usually outside the property before finally leaving.
There were no follow up letters or emails that wouldve been sent to Mrs D after any visits, 
as this wasnt part of its processes and any information wouldve been discussed with her, at 
the time of the visit. 
There could be a number of reasons why a senior engineer had to attend  the customer 
requested one, they could be more experienced and had been brought in to see if anything 
different could be found. In this instance, it wouldve been due to the multiple visits to try and 
help find the root cause of the issue. 
BG also confirmed that prior to the current complaint there hadnt been any complaints from 
Mrs D. 
     
From the information from BG, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D was given a 
checklist, as well as being told verbally (which she confirmed) as to what the issue was and 
what was done. 
Further, Im satisfied that after each visit a contemporaneous note was made by the BG 
engineer, that detailed what had taken place during the visit. This note is the one that I have 
read. 
Consequently, as Mrs D was informed after each visit about what had taken place during the 
visit, I dont think BG were unreasonable not to have emailed or contacted Mrs D further. 
Also, I dont think its likely that the engineer wouldnt have completed the attendance log 
correctly. And although, BG stated that during COVID it was unlikely that Mrs D wouldve 
been given a checklist, having reviewed the dates, many of the times that BG attended Mrs 
D, and given advice regarding her boiler change or re-piping, pre-date COVID. 
I understand that Mrs D questioned why a senior engineer had to attend. But as BG said, 
given the number of occasions that BG had attended her home for the issues regarding the 
re-piping and boiler, I think that it wasnt unreasonable for BG to send a senior engineer to 
carry out further investigations. 
I appreciate that Mrs D wouldve liked BG to refund the boiler, as this would mean that she 
would be able to then pay for her pipework. But I think that BG had informed Mrs D on a few 
occasions that her pipework needed replacing, and I havent seen enough evidence from 
Mrs D to support that its fair for me to recommend that BG reimburse her new boiler costs. 
In the circumstances, I do think that BG ought to pay Mrs D compensation of £200 for the 
trouble and upset caused. But I dont think its reasonable that BG reimburse Mrs Ds costs 
for her new boiler. I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mrs D wouldve liked. But Im 
satisfied that BG wasnt unfair when it didnt agree to reimburse, Mrs Ds installation costs for 
the new boiler.  Putting things right
So, to put matters right, I think its fair and reasonable for BG to pay Mrs D £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
To put matters right, British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman