DRN-1909348
 
The complaint
Mr C says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to him irresponsibly. 
He says that repaying the loans caused him financial problems and he needed to borrow 
again to make the repayments. He thinks that Satsuma shouldve checked he could afford 
the loans before lending. If it had done this it wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr C between April and 
June 2018. Some of the information Satsuma has provided about the lending is below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1  20/04/2018 £120 3 months 02/08/2018
2 09/06/2018 £750 4 months outstanding
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that there was enough information on 
his credit file at the time for Satsuma to have seen that the loans werent affordable for him. 
He says his finances were in very poor shape and thinks that Satsuma shouldve seen this 
and not lent to him
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Ive decided to not to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Why I think Satsumas checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2
For loan 1 Mr C needed to repay around £50 each month for three months. For loan 2 this 
rose to £300 over a four month term. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr C provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr C said he had a monthly income of £2,000 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
around £1,000. I can see that Satsuma increased Mr Cs loan expenditure with the 
information it took from his credit file. So it based its lending decisions on Mr C having 
around £700 of disposable income. So the loans wouldve appeared afford able to Satsuma. 
I can see that Mr C was having some financial difficulties at the time. And I appreciate the 
problems he wouldve been facing. But I havent seen any further information that shows its 
likely Satsuma was made aware of these problems. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further, particularly at this early stage in the lending 
relationship. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 and 2 was reasonable. And 
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman