DRN-4109026
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc offered a reduced settlement amount for a claim 
he made on his home insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In 2019, Mr C took out home insurance through a broker, who Ill refer to as B. The 
underwriter was AXA. It renewed in 2020 and 2021.
Mr C got in touch with AXA after his summerhouse was damaged during a storm. 
AXA accepted the damage was covered by the policy and agreed to settle the claim. 
But it said Mr C had underinsured the outbuildings. It thought they should have been 
insured for around £20,000 but were only insured for £7,500, or about 37%. AXA 
relied on a policy term to reduce the claim settlement in line with this percentage.
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He accepted his outbuildings were only covered for up 
to £7,500 but as the cost of putting the damage right was less than this, he didnt 
think his claim should be reduced. He said he hadnt been made aware prior to the 
claim that he was underinsured.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair to 
consider what AXA would have done if Mr C had been insured for a higher amount. It 
hadnt provided any evidence about this, so it seemed AXA would have been 
prepared to offer the same policy for the same premium even if Mr C had a higher 
sum insured. Because of this, she thought it would be unfair for AXA to reduce the 
claim settlement. She said AXA should pay the claim in full, up to the £7,500 limit and 
less the excess, together with £100 compensation for the delays caused.
Mr C accepted what our investigator said. AXA didnt. It said the way B sold the 
policy had made it clear what Mr C needed to do to ensure his outbuildings were 
sufficiently insured. And the policy wording clearly set out the definition of the word 
outbuildings and included a policy term allowing it to reduce the claim settlement. It 
also said that if Mr C had insured his outbuildings for around £20,000, the premium 
for that part of the cover would have increased from £9 to £24  which meant hed 
paid around 37% of the premium he should have done. So overall AXA thought 
reducing the claim by 37% presented a fair position.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA relied on a policy term to reduce the amount it offered to settle the claim. In 
summary this term says that if the amount Mr C is insured for is less than the rebuild 
cost, the claim will be settled at the percentage Mr C is insured for. Here thats 
around 37%.
Im satisfied the term is in the policy and is clearly worded. However, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on it in this case. Ill explain 
why.
Whilst I recognise AXA is seeking to rely on the policy term only, its doing so 
because it doesnt think Mr C gave the right information at the renewal prior to the 
claim, in 2021. So I think its relevant to consider what happened then  and what 
impact, if any, there was on the renewal if Mr C didnt give the information he should 
have done.
According to the policy term, AXA wanted to know how much it would cost to 
completely rebuild all Mr Cs outbuildings. Within the policy, this word is defined so 
its full meaning is explained. It says it includes, amongst other things, detached 
garages, sheds, fences, driveways and patios. AXA is entitled to set the definition as 
it sees fit and to ask for the full rebuild cost in order to decide how much to charge for 
providing insurance cover.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant  such as the rebuild cost for 
outbuildings.
When a broker sells a policy, its responsible for gathering that information from the 
consumer and passing it to the insurer. How it gathers that information is a matter for 
the broker  not the insurer. This complaint is against AXA in its role as insurer  a 
separate complaint has been considered against B in its role as broker.
As far as AXA is concerned, it wanted to know the full rebuild cost for the 
outbuildings and didnt receive a reasonable answer. Mr C hasnt challenged AXAs 
estimate that the outbuildings would cost around £20,000 to completely rebuild, so it 
seems to be accepted that his answer was unreasonable at the 2021 renewal.
I think its fair to go on to consider what impact that had on AXA. So, if Mr C had said 
the rebuild cost was around £20,000, what difference  if any  would that have 
made to AXA?
Its very disappointing to see that despite our investigator asking for this information 
several times during her investigation, AXA only provided it after she upheld the 
complaint. But now that the information has been provided, I think its reasonable to 
take it into account.
The information provided shows how the premium for outbuildings cover would have 
increased had Mr C increased his cover from £7,500 to £20,000. The way the 
information is presented suggests that outbuildings cover cant be purchased 
separately  it can only be purchased alongside buildings cover. Thats consistent 
with the online sales options. So rather than focusing on the proportion of the 
outbuildings premium Mr C paid, I think it would be fair to consider what proportion of the overall buildings premium he paid. Based on the information provided by AXA, 
thats around 93%.
Overall, that means Mr C paid 93% of the premium he should have done for his 
buildings cover, including outbuildings. Accordingly, Im satisfied the fair and 
equitable position is for AXA to pay him 93% of his claim value, less the excess. AXA 
said it would cost £2,040 to put right the damage and Mr C seems to have agreed. 
After reducing the claim to 93% of its value and deducting the £400 excess, that 
means AXA should pay Mr C a total of £1,497.20.
AXA originally offered Mr C £765.34. If its already paid this amount to him, it need 
only pay the additional £731.86. AXAs offer was made on 29 March 2022. So Mr C 
has been unfairly without some money for over a year. That might be the full 
£1,497.20 or the additional £731.86. Either way, I think it would be fair for AXA to add 
interest to the amount left to pay to reflect that Mr C has been without it unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr C did. He said he accepted my provisional decision but wanted to clarify that hed been 
offered £765.34, less the £400 excess, so hed been paid £365.24 so far. AXA should take 
that into account when it calculates how much it should pay to settle the claim.
As Mr C has accepted my findings and AXA hasnt challenged them, I see no reason to 
change them or comment further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay a total of £1,497.20 to settle the claim.
Pay interest on the outstanding amount left to pay, at 8% simple per year, from 29 
March 2022 to the date of settlement*.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman