DRN-2557709
The complaint
Mr A has complained that HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A bought the policy in August 1996 at the same time as he applied for a credit card by 
postal application.
The policy cost 71p per £100 of Mr As outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, the policy would have paid off 5% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
HFC had to let Mr A know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent before it 
applied PPI to his account. The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been 
able to provide a copy of Mr As completed application form. But Ive seen a copy of a blank 
application form HFC says was used around the time Mr As policy was sold. This has a 
section about PPI on it and a box for the customer to tick if they wanted to take PPI. 
Weve seen a number of similar sales from around the same period and this is consistent 
with our knowledge of how HFC sold PPI. So, I think its likely Mr A would have needed to 
select to have PPI on the postal application he completed. I also think its likely the PPI 
would have appeared on Mr As credit card statements, so if he hadnt agreed to it, I would 
have expected him to have raised this with HFC much sooner. For these reasons, I think 
Mr A was more likely than not aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it at the time. Its understandable if Mr A doesnt remember this now  some 
24 years later.
Both parties agree that HFC didnt give Mr A any advice, which means HFC didnt have to 
check the policy was right for Mr A. But it did need to give him enough information about the 
PPI, so he could decide himself whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information HFC gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances. 
And based on what I know about his circumstances at the time, it looks like the policy could 
have been useful to him, so I dont think better information would have stopped him buying it. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr A at the time of 
sale.
Mr A says he had a car that he could have sold to make his repayments and that his wife 
would have helped him. But he wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer and he 
didnt have any savings. Ive thought about this and I think it more likely than not that Mr A 
would have wanted to avoid selling his car to make his credit card repayments if he could. 
And while his wife may have offered to help, circumstances could change which means her 
help could not always be relied on. The PPI would have enabled Mr A to make his credit 
card repayments and he could have used any other means he had to meet other financial 
commitments at what could be a difficult time. So, I think Mr A could have found the cover 
useful if he fell on hard times and I dont think better information would have changed his 
decision to take the policy. 
It follows, I dont think Mr As PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman