DRN-4153716
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy Sabre Insurance Company Limited requested an additional premium be 
paid for a car insurance policy after Mr E(2) obtained a full driving licence. 
Mr E(1) and Mr E(2) are named drivers on the policy, however for ease in this decision I will 
simply refer to Mrs E.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator not to uphold the 
complaint. I do so for the following reasons:
I should make clear our role here is to make sure Mrs E has been treated fairly and in 
line with how other customers have been treated. Its not for us to tell a business how 
to price their policies; we need to make sure theyre being consistent and not taking 
advantage of any groups of customers. 
Mr E(2) obtaining his full driving licence was something that Sabre needed to be 
made aware of as it represented a change to the risk that had originally been 
insured. Sabre needed to review the new information and decide what it meant for 
the contract. We are not the regulator and so, as Ive explained before, I cant tell 
Sabre what price it should charge for a motor insurance policy. Thats for Sabre to 
decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of Mrs E or a named driver needing 
to make a claim, and its wider commercial requirements. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate risk. And their rates continually change so 
prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of 
its customers. 
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders Sabre will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not 
limited to, age of the drivers, length of time a licence has been held, the 
policyholders postcode, the value of the vehicles, car security, price of parts etc. And 
different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to 
another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk 
posed. But thats not unusual or unfair. 
Sabre has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how the price increase was calculated and Im satisfied that the only factors that were 
changed mid-term were those which related to Mr E(2)s licence. Im afraid I cant 
share that information with Mrs E because its commercially sensitive. But Id like to 
reassure her that Ive checked it very carefully and, having done so, I dont think 
Sabre has treated her unfairly. I can also see that Sabre adjusted the premium to 
take into account that the broker used lower rates when the contract first started. 
Sabre would also have been entitled to charge an administration fee, but it has not 
done so in this instance.
I realise the additional premium request would have come as a shock to Mrs E and 
she has said had she been aware the policy would be that expensive at the outset, 
she would have looked elsewhere for insurance. However, it isnt unusual for 
insurance policies to increase in price, sometimes quite substantially, once a 
provisional licence holder passes their test. Unfortunately, in this instance, due to this 
information coming to light when a claim was made, I dont think Sabre has acted 
unreasonably in asking for payment of the additional premium for the insurance cover 
it did provide. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr E, Mrs E and Mr Es complaint against Sabre 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, Mrs E and 
Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman