DRN-3915270
The complaint
Mr M complains about his insurer, QIC Europe Limited (QIC) under his home insurance 
policy. Mr Ms complaint is about how QIC handled a claim for problems with a septic tank at 
his property.
Any reference to QIC in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr M noticed that  despite being emptied twice in a few weeks  the septic 
tank in his garden was overflowing. He contacted QIC to report the problem and was told the 
issue would be covered under his home insurance policy.
 
QIC appointed a drainage company (C) to assess the problem. They visited the property and 
pumped out the tank. In their report, C noted some blockage of the inlet inspection chamber, 
as well as likely tree root ingress into the outlet pipework from nearby trees (causing the 
system to back up and overflow). The tank would also need replacing with a new sewage 
treatment plant because the existing tank and system didnt comply with current regulations. 
 
Mr M was told that work would proceed on the tank, but this didnt happen, so he followed up 
with QIC. He was then told they would clear the root ingress, but they wouldnt pay to 
replace his tank and system as the need for this wasnt due to the issue with the tree root 
ingress. Rather, it was needed to conform to regulations. 
Mr M was unhappy at this as he didnt think just repairing the pipework would fix the issues 
with his tank. And hed be left with a tank that would overflow and a sewage system that 
would (illegally) be discharging into a local stream.
Mr M then complained to QIC, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response 
they confirmed their decision to partially decline his claim. QIC said theyd considered the 
claim under the Accidental damage to mains services section of the policy. They referred to 
Cs report conclusion that the cause of the problem was tree root ingress to one section of 
pipe to the tank. QIC confirmed they would cover this under the policy, offering a cash 
settlement of £450 (less the policy excess of £350) based on excavation and replacement of 
the damaged section of pipe. QIC also noted the pipe was shared between Mr M and his 
neighbour, so the cash settlement figure was 50% of the full cost of replacement (£900).
QIC also noted (due to the change in regulations) an isolated repair of the pipe wouldnt be 
possible and the whole tank and system would need replacement. But the policy wouldnt 
cover this, as the need wasnt a direct result of the issue (the tree root ingress) and existed 
before the problem with the pipe. So, QIC wouldnt pay to replace the tank and system.
Mr M then complained to this service. He said the problems with the tank meant he couldnt 
use his garden because of the overflow from the tank (and into a pond). Nor could he use 
the property toilets freely. He wanted QIC to fix the problems with his tank properly with a 
lasting solution (that didnt overflow).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC should have done more to consider 
the claim. She thought it wasnt fair for QIC to only offer a settlement based on a repair that 
couldnt be carried out in isolation. She also noted the neighbours insurer had agreed to pay 
50% of the cost of the new sewage treatment plant. She thought QIC should contribute 25% 
of the cost of the new plant (and Mr M to contribute the remaining 25%). She also thought 
QIC should pay Mr M £250 for distress and inconvenience.
QIC disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said their position on the claim remained unchanged.
In my findings I concluded QIC acted reasonably in accepting that part of the claim, 
relating to the damaged pipework, under the Accidental damage to mains services 
section of the policy. I also thought it reasonable to have offered a cash settlement 
based on repair to the damaged section of pipe (based on the rates they could obtain 
from their contractor). Given the shared pipework with Mr Ms neighbour, I also 
thought it reasonable for QIC to offer 50% of the gross estimated coast of the repair 
(£900) less the excess that would apply to any claim. 
On the issue of whether QIC should cover the cost of replacing (upgrading) the tank 
and system, I concluded QIC should apply a section of the policy to the claim that 
referred to the cost of keeping to government or other local authority requirements. 
On the point that Mr Ms neighbours insurer agreed to cover 50% of the cost of the 
replacement sewage system, while my role wasnt to consider whether his 
neighbours insurer acted fairly towards his neighbour, I took this into account in 
deciding what I thought reasonable in Mr Ms case.
While the condition about keeping to government or local government requirements 
might indicate QIC should meet the cost of the replacement sewage plant (to meet 
the current regulations) I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. I concluded this because Cs report notes the septic tank 
is of ageing condition. While this could have been considered gradual deterioration, 
the issue with the tank was the result of the tree root ingress).
Taking these points into consideration, I thought a fair and reasonable outcome would 
be for QIC to pay 25% of the estimated cost of a replacement sewage system 
(subject to any policy excess). Not 50%, given the shared ownership between Mr M 
and his neighbour. That would leave the remaining 25% to be borne by Mr M.
I also considered the issue of compensation. Taking account of all the circumstances 
I thought £250 was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Because I reached my conclusions based on differing grounds to those of our investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr M.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint is that QIC are only offering a cash settlement to cover 
(50%) of the estimated cost of repairing just the damaged pipe. They arent covering the cost 
of a replacement sewage plant to meet current regulations. Mr M says they should, so he 
has a working, legally compliant system. QIC say they accept the policy covers the damage 
to the pipe (from the tree root ingress) as accidental damage. But the policy wouldnt cover a replacement sewage plant, as this isnt a direct result of the tree root ingress and existed 
before the problem with the pipe. 
Ive considered this issue carefully, together with the representations, evidence and 
information provided by Mr M and by QIC. Having done so, Ive concluded QIC 
havent acted fairly in limiting their cash settlement offer to repairing the damaged 
pipe  but not covering the replacement of the tank and system. Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
While it isnt the key area of disagreement, Ive first considered QICs acceptance of 
part of the claim, relating to the damaged pipework, under the Accidental damage to 
mains services section of the policy. It states:
13. Accidental damage to mains services
We will pay the costs of repairing accidental damage to underground pipes, 
tanks, cables and services (including their inspection covers) that reach from 
the buildings to the public supply and septic tanks, which you are legally 
responsible for. 
In their final response, QIC also refer to the following definition of accidental 
damage:
Accidental damage
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
a. Happens at a specific time; and
b. Was not deliberate; and
c. Was caused by something external and identifiable.
As QIC have accepted damage to the section of pipe under the section, I think thats 
reasonable. Ive also noted the policy definition of buildings includes: permanently 
installed septic tanks, cesspits.
I also think its reasonable for them to have offered a cash settlement based on repair 
to the damaged section of pipe (based on the rates they could obtain from their 
contractor). Insurers can negotiate discounted rates from contractors, due to the 
volume of work they place with contractors. This means the rates are likely to be less 
than an individual consumer could obtain. Given the shared pipework with Mr Ms 
neighbour, I also think its reasonable for QIC to offer 50% of the gross estimated 
coast of the repair (£900) less the excess that would apply to any claim. 
Returning to the key issue of whether QIC should cover the cost of replacing 
(upgrading) the tank and system, in their final response, QIC dont refer to a specific 
part of the policy as the basis for their view that a replacement sewage plant wouldnt 
be covered. So, Ive looked at what the policy terms and conditions provide for. The 
Accidental damage to mains services section of the policy goes on to state:
X We dont cover:
a. Loss or damage due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration;
b. Loss or damage caused by gradual deterioration which means an 
installation has reached the end of its useful life
However, Ive also noted the following section that the policy provides as standard 
when buildings insurance cover is taken out:
13. Buildings fees and clearing debrisFollowing a successful claim for loss or damage under Section 1  Buildings, 
we will pay:
a. 
b. the cost to keep to government or local authority requirements (but not 
if they told you about these requirements before the loss or damage 
happened)
Looking at this, given the definition of buildings includes: permanently installed 
septic tanks, cesspits, then I think its reasonable to apply this section of the policy 
to the claim for damage to the septic tank. QIC accepted the claim for damage as 
accidental damage, but I think its reasonable to apply the same section. As the 
requirement for a new sewage plant stems from current regulations, I think that would 
be encompassed within the phrase government or local authority requirements.
Ive also considered the point made by Mr M that his neighbours insurer has agreed 
to cover 50% of the cost of the replacement sewage system. While my role is to 
consider the specific circumstances of this case and decide whether QIC have acted 
fairly towards Mr M (not whether his neighbours insurer have acted fairly towards his 
neighbour) I have taken this into account in deciding whats reasonable in this case.
While the above condition about keeping to government or local government 
requirements might indicate QIC should meet the cost of the replacement sewage 
plant (so it meets the current regulations) Im not persuaded that would be fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I say that because Cs report notes the 
septic tank is of ageing condition. The photographs in Cs report support his 
observation. While this might also be considered to be gradual deterioration, the issue 
with the tank wasnt the result of gradual deterioration (it was the result of the tree 
root ingress).
Taking these points into consideration, I think a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case would be for QIC to pay 25% of the estimated cost of a replacement sewage 
system (subject to any policy excess). Not 50%, given the shared ownership between 
Mr M and his neighbour. That would leave the remaining 25% to be borne by Mr M.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Mr M has described the impact of 
having an overflowing septic tank on his garden, pond and being able to fully use the 
toilets at his property. I think this will have caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Taking account of all the circumstances I think £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
intend to require QIC Europe Limited to:
Pay 25% of the estimated cost of a replacement sewage plant (subject to any policy 
excess)
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Mr M responded to say he accepted the findings and conclusions in the provisional decision.
QIC didnt respond by the date requested.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr M.
As Mr M has accepted my provisional decision findings and conclusions, and QIC havent 
responded, then my provisional findings and conclusions remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Limited to:
Pay 25% of the estimated cost of a replacement sewage plant (subject to any policy 
excess)
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman