DRN-2733767
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that notes placed on their credit file by National Westminster Bank
Plc have prevented them from obtaining additional lending, which means they cant adapt 
their home to meet the needs of their family.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P told us that their personal family circumstances make life at home very
difficult. They said they wanted a loan, to pay for some building work which would give them
a little more space. That would help to meet particular family needs, and would make things
much easier for them. But they said theyd been turned down for lending. Mr and Mrs P said
this was because NatWest had wrongly told credit reference agencies that theyd recently
paid their mortgage late.
NatWest said that Mr and Mrs P pay their mortgage manually, rather than by direct debit.
And their monthly payment is sometimes late. But NatWest said that it had made a mistake,
because it had recorded two payments that theyd made late, for November 2018 and May
2019, as missed payments.
Mr and Mrs P also said that theyd had an agreement with NatWest that they could split the
payment for September 2019, but NatWest said that payment was also received late.
NatWest said it would remove all adverse data for Mr and Mrs P from November 2018 to
when it wrote to us about this complaint, which was in March 2020. And it said it had paid Mr
and Mrs P £200 for the inconvenience.
NatWest doesnt think that these negative markers have caused the knock-on effects that
Mrs P has suggested. It says there are late payment markers on her credit file from before
November 2018, and those are there because payments were made late. So it says that the
mistakes it made with markers it added for November and May wouldnt be the only reason
that Mr and Mrs P had been refused additional borrowing.
NatWest looked into its records for Mr and Mrs P, and said it only had records of them
making one loan application, in February 2020. Theyd been turned down then.
NatWest said that if the reason for turning Mr and Mrs P down for this loan was something
on their credit files, then it would show on NatWests records as refused because of their
credit score. But this loan didnt. The loan Mr and Mrs P asked for was turned down on
affordability, not as a result of anything on their credit files. So NatWest didnt think it had
done anything which had prevented Mr and Mrs P from getting a loan.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that there was no
dispute that NatWest had made a mistake, so she was looking to see if NatWest had done
enough to make up for that. She said that it was clear that Mr and Mrs P felt very strongly
about this complaint.
Our investigator said that NatWest had accepted it made an error. It had taken the missed
payment markers off, and also removed the late payment marker for the disputed payment
of September 2019.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs P had told us theyd been refused lending by NatWest,
and by another bank. NatWest had shown us that the reason it hadnt approved Mr and Mrs
P for a loan in February 2020 had nothing to do with their credit score. And our investigator
said that Mrs P has told our service she was turned down for a business loan with another
bank because that bank didnt think they had a good enough business plan. So she didnt
think that had anything to do with anything that had been recorded on Mr and Mrs P's credit
file either.
Our investigator said that she couldnt find any other evidence of loan applications with
NatWest. But if Mr and Mrs P wanted to send more evidence, she would consider that.
Our investigator said she sympathised with Mr and Mrs P over their current living conditions.
But she hadnt seen anything to confirm that the information about their mortgage account
on their credit files was the reason they hadnt been able to borrow money. So she thought
the £200 that NatWest had already paid was enough to reflect what had gone wrong.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said that £200 didnt make up for what had happened. They
still hadnt been able to get a loan. They didnt think that affordability was really the problem.
They said they wouldnt have applied for further lending unless they were sure they could
afford it. And Mr and Mrs P said that when they put their lending applications in, they
discovered that NatWest had only cleared Mrs Ps credit file, it hadnt cleared Mr Ps file.
They said theyd been to NatWest (a 40-mile round trip) on a number of occasions to ask
about further borrowing. They sent us the dates of their visits. They told us who theyd met
with about lending, so we could ask NatWest more about this.
Our investigator wrote to Mr and Mrs P to ask for some more information, and also to clarify
that when NatWest said it had turned down further lending on the basis of affordability, that
meant it was worried about whether Mr and Mrs P could pay this money back, not that there
was a problem on their credit files.
Mrs P sent us Mr Ps credit file. That showed no late or missed payments on his mortgage in
the last 24 months. Mr P also has two defaults, dating from 2015, one of which has a large
outstanding balance.
Mrs P gave the name of two advisors at NatWest that shed spoken to about lending. She
said that the lady she mentioned had told her she could not see a reason why the couple
couldnt borrow up to £15,000, jointly.
NatWest also asked these advisors about lending to Mrs P. The gentleman couldnt
remember talking to Mr and Mrs P, unfortunately. But the lady Mrs P mentioned could, and
she remembered this differently. She also had notes that she had taken from the meeting.
This advisor said she hadnt actually processed loan applications for Mr and Mrs P, but had
just checked if they were eligible. And they hadnt been. Notes from her meetings with Mr
and Mrs P suggested that the reason they werent able to borrow more was because of the
extent of Mrs Ps existing borrowing. That advisor hasnt confirmed to our service that she
thought Mr and Mrs P ought to be able to borrow more, or that the reason they couldnt
borrow money was the recent late or missed payment marks on Mr and Mrs Ps credit file.
Mrs P said shed attempted to contact this advisor more recently, and the lady had said
shed have to speak to her manager before giving out any information. No information was
provided. Mrs P said this proved NatWest wasnt transparent.Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mrs P has said that she and Mr P wouldnt have known anything about the black 
marks on their credit files, if someone from a different bank hadnt told them. They 
thought that the system that NatWest uses wasnt adequate for customers who make 
manual payments.
NatWest has accepted it made mistakes, but its also told us that it isnt set up to 
accept manual payments. Its customers arent supposed to pay like that. It says that 
making payments by direct debit is actually a condition of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage. 
So NatWest isnt expecting payments to be made in this way. I do need to take that 
into account when I consider whats gone wrong here.
When Mr and Mrs P dont pay by the due date, NatWest is allowed to record late 
payment markers on their credit files. And its still allowed to do that even if the 
payment is only one day late. But I can see that for the payment due end September, 
Mrs P had spoken to NatWest about this, and told it that some of the money would 
be slightly late. I cant see that NatWest had warned her that this would affect her 
credit file. So I understand why she was upset by this. And Im pleased to see that 
this late payment marker has now been removed from Mr and Mrs Ps credit files.
NatWest has accepted that it made mistakes in how two of Mr and Mrs Ps payments 
were recorded. It had noted them as missed payments, when they were just late. It 
has corrected this.
Mrs P said that these amendments were done for her, but werent done for Mr P until 
some time later. Ive asked NatWest about this, and it hasnt been able to tell us 
when it made these changes for both Mr and Mrs Ps credit files. I can see that the 
complaint response it sent on 13 November 2019 was addressed only to Mrs P, and 
confirmed amendments to her credit file. Theres no mention of similar amendments 
to Mr Ps credit file.
So it does appear to me that its likely only Mrs Ps credit file was amended at this 
time. I think Mr Ps credit file shouldve been amended at the same time, and it 
seems most likely that it wasnt amended until later.
But I can also see that NatWest has removed the missing payment markers for 
November 2018 and May 2019 for both Mr P and Mrs P, and it hasnt replaced these 
with late payment markers, even though these payments were late. I think that goes 
beyond what I could reasonably have required NatWest to do in amending these 
credit files.
I also note that NatWest has paid Mr and Mrs P £200 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs P say that doesnt make up for not being able to get the loan they want to
improve their familys home life. I realise how important this is to Mr and Mrs P, but I 
just havent seen anything to make me think that negative marks by NatWest from 
November 2018, May 2019 and September 2019 are the reason they havent been 
able to get a loan.Mr and Mrs P have given an alternative explanation for why they were turned down 
for business lending elsewhere, so I dont think NatWest did anything to cause that.
NatWest says it didnt turn down Mr and Mrs P for lending because of anything on 
their credit files. It has pointed to concerns about affordability.
Mr and Mrs P say that there isnt a problem with affordability. I understand their 
position, which is that they wouldnt ask for a loan unless they were confident they 
could pay it back. But lenders will all make their own assessments of affordability. 
They do have to do that, and NatWest isnt able to lend to Mr and Mrs P unless it can 
be confident that the repayments wont be too much of a burden for them. And in 
NatWests case, at least, I can see that NatWest wasnt confident that any further 
lending wouldnt be too much of a burden for Mr and Mrs P. Thats why it decided not 
to lend to them.
Mr and Mrs P have also said that they think the problem with extra lending is just 
down to the late or missed payment markers from November 2018 and May and 
September 2019. I should note that Mr and Mrs P do have a number of other late 
payment markers on their credit files for their mortgage. These date from earlier than 
November 2018. NatWest says these have all been correctly applied.
I also note that Mr P has two defaults, dating from 2015, and one of these has a large
outstanding balance. It is generally very difficult to get additional borrowing with 
defaults on a credit file, and Id usually expect defaults, especially one which isnt 
settled, to have much more of an impact than late payment markers.
So, like our investigator, I just dont think that its most likely that the mistakes 
NatWest has made have affected Mr and Mrs Ps applications for further lending.
I know that Mr and Mrs P say that not having this lending is having a significant 
impact on them. They didnt think £200 was enough to make up for that. But it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask NatWest to pay Mr and Mrs P more, when I dont think 
that theyve been refused extra lending because of anything NatWest did.
I know Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed, but I dont think NatWest has to do more 
than its done already.
Mr and Mrs P havent suggested to us that they are in financial difficulties at the 
moment. But I do understand that this has been a difficult time for many people. So, 
moving forwards, I would like to remind NatWest about the current FCA guidance for 
taking action to recover mortgage arrears given the impact of the global pandemic. I 
would expect NatWest to continue to treat Mr and Mrs P in line with this guidance as 
it continues to evolve over time.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt reply. NatWest said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. So Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs P that this complaint 
wont be upheld.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman