DRN-1476991
The complaint
Ms D complains that Experian Limited (Experian) reported four County Court Judgements 
(CCJs) on her credit file but that these judgements didnt relate to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Experian were wrong to report the CCJs against Ms D. They werent hers.
It seems likely that the CCJs were reported on Ms Ds credit file in 2017 when Experian 
updated its system to consider the dates of birth registered on CCJs. But, at the earliest the 
CCJs have been on Ms Ds file since they were handed down: three of them in 2016 and the 
final one in 2017. 
In that time Ms D has explained that shes had two credit card applications and a tenancy 
application declined. The businesses who declined the credit cards havent confirmed that 
their decisions were based solely on the presence of CCJs on the file. One of the 
businesses has explained the rejection was for a few issues. 
I dont therefore think theres enough evidence to suggest the presence of the CCJs was the 
sole reason for the rejection of Ms Ds credit applications or her tenancy application; 
although I can understand they would have been a consideration. There were other missed 
payments on Ms Ds credit file that may, reasonably, have led to her applications being 
rejected anyway.
Ms Ds application for credit at a furniture store was made after the CCJs had been removed 
from her file so I dont think it would be fair to suggest they would have been visible when the 
credit application was reviewed.
I understand Ms Ds concerns that, as a result of the mistake, she has discovered potentially 
embarrassing financial information about a family member. But that information was always 
publicly available so I dont think it would be fair to ask Experian to provide any further 
compensation.
Experian have now offered Ms D total compensation of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and I think, in the circumstances, that is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint as I think the compensation 
Experian Limited have now offered is reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman