DRN-2445088
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Oakwood Homeloans Limited handled his request for a 
payment holiday. He also complains about fees, a delay in receiving a refund, and the 
overall customer service hes received.
What happened
 Mr F has a mortgage with Oakwood. Hes raised several complaints about the way theyve 
handled things over the years, including the fact theyd charged him for insurance when he 
already had cover in place. In August 2019, Oakwood wrote to Mr F refunding some of the 
premiums hed paid. They said they enclosed a cheque with the letter for the amount of 
£57.25 to cover the premiums that were charged to Mr Fs account. They also refunded £10 
to the mortgage to cover the fee that had been applied.
In September 2019 Mr F contacted Oakwood stating he was still waiting for a refund of the 
insurance premiums. Oakwood wrote to Mr F saying that if he wanted a refund of premiums 
for the period from March to June 2009, as thats the only period they hadnt refunded, he 
would need to provide evidence he had cover in place. Mr F continued to email Oakwood 
asking for a refund.
On 3 December 2019 Mr F told Oakwood he was cancelling his direct debit until he received 
a better service. He said he was still waiting for his lenders insurance overpayments, and 
his General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) request. He continued to send several 
emails during December and January chasing for a response, and complaining about the 
fees he was being charged on the account in relation to his direct debit.
On 19 February 2020 Mr F emailed Oakwood to say that he had not received the cheque 
that was attached to the letter theyd sent in August 2019.
On 16 March 2020 Oakwood issued a final response letter in response to Mr Fs emails. This 
letter said that on 5 December 2019 theyd received confirmation from Mr Fs bank that hed 
cancelled his direct debit for the mortgage account. So they wrote to him the same day to 
inform him theyd applied a direct debit cancellation fee in line with their tariff of charges.
 
Once Mr F had completed a new direct debit mandate, they set up a new direct debit on 27 
December 2019, to collect funds on 31 January 2020. On 29 January 2020 Oakwood 
received confirmation from Mr Fs bank that the direct debit had been cancelled, so a further 
fee was applied to the account. As the direct debit instruction had already been sent and 
been returned unpaid, they also applied a direct debit rejection fee to the account. Oakwood 
said that Mr F could make payments via an alternative method if he chose.
 
In relation to the refund of insurance premiums, Oakwood confirmed they sent Mr F a 
cheque on 6 August 2019. They said Mr F made them aware he hadnt received the cheque 
in February 2020. Oakwood said it was the responsibility of the postal service to ensure 
correspondence is received by the recipient. But theyd arranged for the refund cheque to be 
re-issued. The letter also said that Mr F had not been charged any arrears fees, despite the 
fact no payment was received in December 2019.
On 17 March 2020 Mr F emailed Oakwood asking for a payment holiday on his mortgage 
account. On 8 April 2020 Mr F complained about the lack of response as he hadnt heard 
anything. On 10 April 2020 Mr F contacted Oakwood again about the fact theyd written to 
him about litigation action, when he didnt have any arrears on his account.
In May 2020 Oakwood sent Mr F their final response letter for his complaint about the 
payment holiday. They said the letter they sent to Mr F about litigation action was not in 
response to his payment holiday request, but in response to his request for a reduced 
settlement figure. They did apologise for the distress this caused and confirmed they werent 
proceeding with litigation action on the account. They offered Mr F £100 to pay for the delay 
in responding about the payment holiday, and said they would put it in place from the date it 
was requested if he would still like one. They also agreed to send the refund for the 
insurance premiums by bank transfer rather than cheque, as Mr F wasnt able to cash a 
cheque as a result of the pandemic. They asked him to send them his bank details.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service and asked us to look into things. Hes complained 
about the following:
Oakwood delayed sending him the refund for the insurance premiums theyd 
charged. As a result of the delay, he also wants Oakwood to refund him interest, and 
pay for the distress and inconvenience of being without the funds;
Oakwood applied the direct debit charges and fees unfairly;
Oakwood made reference to arrears fees being charged on his account, despite the 
fact he was up to date with payments;
Oakwood didnt respond to his request for a payment holiday. Instead they wrote to 
him about litigation action on his account, which added to his existing stress about 
his situation.
Mr F has also complained about other issues hes had with Oakwood, but these have been 
considered by our service under a different complaint reference.
Our investigator looked into things, and felt that the £100 Oakwood had offered was a fair 
way to put things right. So she didnt recommend they need to do anything more.
Mr F disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 August 2021. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The delayed refund of insurance premiums
Oakwood have said they sent Mr F a cheque on 6 August 2019 for a refund of his insurance 
premiums. Mr F says he never received that cheque or the accompanying letter, and 
Oakwood have confirmed it was never cashed. Oakwood have since sent the refund to Mr F 
by bank transfer, after sending him another cheque which he said he couldnt cash. Whilst 
Mr F didnt receive the letter sent in August, I can see it was sent to the correspondence 
address Oakwood held on file for Mr F. Hes also received other correspondence sent to that 
address. So on balance, Im not persuaded it was Oakwoods fault that the letter wasnt 
received.So what remains for me to decide is whether Oakwood should have re-sent the cheque 
sooner than they did, and if so, whether they need to do anything else to compensate for the 
delay.
Mr F had previously requested that all communication is done in writing in relation to his 
mortgage account, and didnt want to be contacted by phone. So Oakwood werent able to 
call Mr F about the emails he had sent them. I also think there was some confusion caused 
as a result of the fact that Oakwood agreed to refund some of the insurance premiums Mr F 
had been charged, but not all of them.
Ive read the emails Mr F sent Oakwood in 2019 and early 2020, and it was clear that Mr F 
was unhappy with the service he was receiving in relation to his mortgage account. Whilst he 
did say he was waiting for a refund of the premiums, from his earlier emails it wasnt 
particularly clear whether these were the premiums Oakwood had agreed to refund, or the 
other premiums they hadnt agreed to. Oakwood wrote to Mr F in September to say that if he 
wanted a further refund, hed need to provide evidence he had cover in place.
When Mr F continued to email Oakwood in November 2019 about the refund, I can see they 
did escalate this internally to see what had happened to the premiums. However, it was 
decided theyd already addressed Mr Fs concerns about that in their letter from September 
so didnt need to respond again. Whilst I can see how thats happened, I do think the nature 
of Mr Fs emails, and the clear distress he was in about the situation should have prompted 
Oakwood to look into things further. Had they asked him which premiums he was referring 
to, he could have explained  and they would have discovered he hadnt received the 
cheque theyd sent him previously. Instead they didnt respond to Mr F, which just added to 
the distress he was already in about the situation.
As a result, I think if Oakwood had investigated things as they should have done in 
November 2019 when Mr F was still asking for the refund, they would have reissued the 
cheque then, as they did in 2020. An ombudsman has already decided that the refund as it 
was issued in August 2019  was a fair amount. So I wont consider that again. I just need to 
decide whether Mr F is due any further redress as a result of the delay. 
Considering the circumstances, I think Oakwood do need to pay further redress to put things 
right. Mr F didnt have access to funds that he should have had. So I think Oakwood should 
pay Mr F 8% simple interest on the amount refunded - calculated from the date the cheque 
should have been re-issued, which I consider to be 25 November 2019 as thats when 
Oakwood decided that no further investigation or response was necessary, until the date the 
refund was paid to Mr F.  Mr F has told us he needed that money over the Christmas period 
to help pay for other bills and petrol. And its clear from the amount of emails he was sending 
how much this issue meant to him. As a result, I think Oakwood should pay £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result of their error.
Direct debit charges and fees
On at least two occasions, Mr F cancelled his direct debit instruction for his monthly payment 
to the mortgage account. As a result, Oakwood applied a £3 fee for the relevant months, and 
also applied a £5 fee in February as the direct debit had been returned due to the instruction 
not being cancelled before they attempted to collect the funds. Oakwood have said they 
applied these fees in line with the tariff of charges for the account. Mr F thinks they shouldnt 
have been applied, because he told Oakwood he would be cancelling the direct debit as a 
result of the poor service he was receiving. He also still made up the payments later by 
cheque.The terms and conditions for the mortgage say that Mr F cannot cancel or alter the direct 
debit mandate without first obtaining the lenders consent.
Ive looked at the tariff of charges for the account, and both of these charges are set out 
clearly, and explain when theyre applicable. So Im satisfied Oakwood were entitled to apply 
them to the account when they did. However, Ive also thought about whether it was fair and 
reasonable for them to do so in the particular circumstances of this case.
Whilst I appreciate Mr F was getting frustrated with Oakwood and the customer service he 
was receiving, he still needed to maintain the monthly mortgage payments in line with the 
mortgage agreement. It was his decision to cancel the direct debit instructions with his bank, 
and then arrange for separate payments to be made via cheque afterwards. I can see that 
Mr Fs actions did result in additional administration for Oakwood, as they had to re-send the 
direct debit mandates to Mr F, and process the cheques onto the account rather than receive 
the direct debit payments. So considering the circumstances, Im not persuaded it was unfair 
of Oakwood to charge the fees on the occasions they did.
Reference to arrears fees
Oakwood have confirmed they havent charged Mr F any arrears fees on the account. They 
informed him that they would be charged if he did not make his full monthly payment in the 
absence of the direct debit. And thats what Mr F says caused him distress. I can appreciate 
he was worried about incurring an additional fee, but I think Oakwood were right to tell Mr F 
of the consequences of him not making his full payments. So I dont think they did anything 
wrong to tell him about the fees, and in any event, none were charged. As a result, I dont 
think Oakwood need to do anything more on this point.
Request for a payment holiday
Mr F requested a payment holiday in March 2020. Oakwood didnt respond to that request, 
but in April they did write to Mr F to tell him his offer of a reduced settlement for the 
mortgage had been rejected. In that letter Oakwood also mentioned that if a payment 
arrangement could not be agreed, they would have to consider taking further action on the 
account which may include progressing to litigation. I can understand why the contents of 
that letter would have caused Mr F some upset  particularly considering his mortgage 
account was up to date and hed just requested help in the form of a payment holiday.
Oakwood apologised for this miscommunication in May 2020. They said they should have 
responded to Mr Fs request for a payment holiday sooner, and offered to put that in place 
for him retrospectively. They also offered to pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience. Considering the circumstances, I think thats a fair and reasonable way to put 
things right here. Mr Fs mortgage account would have been put back in the position it 
should have been in if Oakwood had accepted his request for a payment holiday, and paid 
him £100 compensation, which I think is proportionate. As a result, I wont be recommending 
Oakwood do anything more to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F accepted my provisional decision.
Oakwood responded to say they had no further comments. They clarified that no redress 
payment had been made to Mr F in respect of this complaint yet.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any more comments or information for me to consider, Im 
satisfied that the outcome I reached in my provisional decision is the fair way to put things 
right and resolve things here, for the reasons Ive already explained. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Oakwood should do the following:
Pay Mr F 8% simple interest on the refund amount of £57.25 calculated from 25 
November 2019 to the date the refund was paid to Mr Fs bank account*.
Pay Mr F a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused (including the 
£100 thats already been offered but not yet been paid).
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Oakwood Homeloans Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Oakwood Homeloans Limited to pay the redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman