DRN-1505669
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 when he 
applied for a mortgage.  
What happened
In August 2001, Mr D took out a PPI policy alongside his mortgage. The policy provided 
cover if Mr D couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. He added he thought he had to have PPI; he 
wasnt given any information about it; and that he didnt need insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to him, so 
Ill explain why.
Mr D specifically complained that he thought he had to have the PPI as an important part of 
his mortgage. However, I have seen the mortgage application and can see Mr D ticked the 
Yes box for PPI requesting cover and then signed a separate PPI application. He could 
have ticked the No box on the mortgage application and not completed the separate PPI 
application. So I think PPI was shown as an optional product and, by signing the separate 
PPI application form, he chose to have it.
Lloyds recommended the policy to him and Ill also continue on the basis that it was an 
advised sale. For an advised sale, Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr 
Ds needs. Having looked at his circumstances at the time of the sale, I think this policy was 
suitable for him in 2001 because he was eligible to buy it, he wasnt affected by the main 
things not covered by the policy (the exclusions) and it was affordable for him.
I accept Mr D probably had employee benefits if he was off work through accident or 
sickness - similar to the kind the PPI provided. But I think the PPI cover wouldve paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and savings. So I think he could still have found the PPI useful if he 
lost his job, had an accident or had fallen sick. And I dont think his employee benefits made 
the policy less suitable for him.
Mr D said he could have relied on his family for help, but there was no guarantee he could 
rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the policy 
any less suitable for him.For advised sales, Lloyds also had to give Mr D enough information which was clear, fair 
and not misleading. I dont know how Lloyds pointed out all the exclusions and limitations. 
But even if Lloyds had made all the information clearer, I think its likely Mr D would have still 
bought the PPI because he wasnt affected by the main ones. Mr D said he also did some 
secondary private work  but this was not his main job. I think its more likely he chose PPI 
to protect his main income, so I dont think having his second income made the policy less 
suitable for him.
I also looked at the cost and benefits of the policy. Even if they were not made clear, I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the policy wasnt affordable for Mr D. Having 
decided he chose to have PPI and as I think it provided a useful benefit for him  I still think 
he would have bought it even if the costs were made clearer. So I dont uphold this mis-sale 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman