DRN-2882917
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made on 
his buildings insurance policy for subsidence at his property.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator so Ive only provided a summary here.
Mr W made a claim on his buildings insurance policy in Summer 2018 following some 
subsidence
He wasnt happy with the way Fairmead handled a number of aspects of the claim 
and he complained. Fairmead issued a final response in October 2019 apologised for 
the things it didnt get right and awarded Mr W £100 compensation
A number of issues have occurred since and this complaint focuses on what 
happened up to the point Fairmead issued its further final response in December 
2020
Following these issues, Mr W complained to Fairmead again in October 2020 and 
listed a number of things he wasnt happy with 
Fairmead issued a final response to this second complaint in December 2020 and 
explained why using the injection of resin under the foundations was an alternative to 
traditional underpinning and why it had offered a cash settlement when Covid 
restrictions were in place
It also apologised for a number of things it said it could have done better including  
but not limited to - some instances of poor communication and delays including the 
slow return of furniture to the property once the work was completed
It paid Mr W £400 by way of an apology but he didnt think this was enough
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded this amount was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances
The complaint has come to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role at this service is to say how a complaint should be resolved quickly and with minimal 
formality and that means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. So, 
while I will consider everything the parties have submitted, Ill only comment on those things 
I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. 
Instances of subsidence are, by their nature, stressful and inconvenient for consumers to 
deal with. Claims relating to subsidence often take a significant time to resolve due to the 
monitoring and remedial work involved. Visits from contractors sometimes necessitate 
consumers being on site at times they would otherwise have been at work; and dependent 
on the amount and nature of work required, sometimes they are required to move to 
alternative accommodation while the work is undertaken. I cant hold an insurance company 
responsible for that, its simply part of addressing the underlying issue. But I can look at if an 
insurer complied with the requirement to handle a claim promptly and fairly and whether it 
did anything wrong while managing the claim. 
It seems to me theres broad agreement about the circumstances of this complaint. But the 
issue at hand is the amount of compensation Fairmead should pay Mr W for the way it 
handled the claim. And its this matter Ive considered within my decision.
Lack of communication 
Its clear from the comprehensive case notes there was some poor communication during 
the claim and at times Mr W was only given a short period of notice about when things would 
be happening. For example, just 24 hours notice before the contractor was due to 
commence the resin injection and then there was confusion around the arrangements for the 
removal and return of the furniture. 
This has been acknowledged by both Fairmead and our investigator. I agree Fairmead 
should have handled this better than it did and I can see how its failure to do so would have 
caused inconvenience and stress to Mr W.
Covid delays and cash settlement
Covid restrictions had a huge impact across the country and it also impacted Fairmeads 
ability to arrange for the remedial work to be done. I can understand why this would have 
been the case given the circumstances and why Fairmead offered a cash settlement as an 
alternative.
I acknowledge what Mr W says about this settlement being lower than he thinks it ought to 
have been but as it didnt proceed, I dont need to make any findings on whether it was fair 
or not. 
I would just comment that generally insurers are able to obtain cheaper rates to have work 
done than consumers and its not uncommon for policies to confirm, when cash settling, 
insurers can use these rates to calculate the size of the settlement. 
Alternative accommodation and moving back
I know Mr W mentioned some issues with Fairmead suggesting they go on a long holiday 
and some confusion over whether it was going to pay for this or not. But I note this didnt go 
ahead so I dont need to make a finding on this issue. But I do accept this may have caused 
further frustration.
I acknowledge Fairmead wasnt able to find like for like accommodation for the additional 
week required so Mr W decided to move back home before the property was completely 
ready. And this was made worse because of problems with the return of the furniture. I can 
see how this would have been inconvenient and uncomfortable.  
Conclusion
I have considered all the issues detailed by Mr W over the period of time under review and 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I think Fairmead did let him down on a number of 
occasions and made an already difficult situation, worse. 
Ive thought carefully about what happened and about this Services approach to 
compensation when reaching my decision. And having done so, when considered in the round, Im satisfied the amounts Fairmead has already paid - £400 trouble and upset and 
£260 for the disturbance allowance and damaged bush - are an appropriate way for it to 
settle this complaint. I know Mr W doesnt think its enough but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman