DRN-3166974
The complaint
Miss F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that, in September 2020, Miss F was called by a 
fraudster pretending to be from HMRC.
Miss F was told by the fraudster that she owed tax and was threatened with arrest if she 
didnt pay the outstanding sum due. She was told there were five allegations of tax 
avoidance against her and that she had the options of either paying a fine (in which case 
things would be put down as an honest mistake) or to go to court and risk further fines or 
going to prison. Miss F has said she mainly spoke to two people, one of whom claimed to be 
a lawyer working for HMRC.
Miss F has said that when she received the call she was directed to check the number on a 
gov.co.uk website and it was the same number. Shes told us that during that year she had 
set up a limited company, but hadnt yet registered for Corporation Tax or filed her first 
accounts, so she thought it might be correct that there were taxes due. But unknown to her 
at the time, she was speaking to fraudsters.
Believing things to be genuine Miss F went ahead and made payments in line with the 
fraudsters instructions. After making an initial payment, Miss F continued to speak to the 
fraudsters, who sent her letters, via an instant messaging platform, on what appeared to be 
HMRC headed paper detailing further payments that were due, for court fees, along with 
images of the HMRC website which appeared to indicate that Miss F would later receive a 
refund.
  
Miss F made a number of transfers from her HSBC account, to accounts she held in her 
name with other payment service providers, and from there she transferred funds to 
accounts controlled by the fraudsters (these payments do not form part of the complaint  
Miss F has brought to this service against HSBC). But, Miss F also made the following two 
payments to the fraudsters, directly from her HSBC account. It is these payments that are 
being considered in this complaint;
18 September 2020 £999
18 September 2020 £1,600
The scam came to light when Miss F later made a call to the number the fraudster had 
appeared to call her from. But the call went straight through to a genuine HMRC member of 
staff and when Miss F ask for the fictitious name (that the fraudster had given her), it came 
to light that there was nobody by that name at HMRC and at this point Miss F realised she 
had been scammed. 
Miss F raised the matter with HSBC. HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment scams like this, except in 
limited circumstances. HSBC investigated Miss Fs complaint and issued its final response in 
November 2020, not upholding the complaint. In summary it didnt accept liability as it said it 
provided sufficient fraud warnings before Miss F made the payments. Alongside this it 
thought Miss F could have done more to check she was genuinely dealing with HMRC.
 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss F then brought her complaint to our service and one 
of our investigators looked into things. She thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
HSBC should refund the money Miss F had lost, along with interest (our investigator updated 
both Miss F and HSBC with an amended redress amount after issuing her view). In 
summary, our investigator didnt consider the warnings HSBC had given were impactful and 
she thought this was a sophisticated scam and very believable to Miss F, so she had a 
reasonable basis for believing it was HMRC that had called her. 
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it said that it didnt think a call 
coming through on a spoofed number is enough to validate that the request for payment is 
genuine. It added that the documents were sent to Miss F through an instant messaging 
platform and this isnt how youd expect an organisation such as HMRC to communicate.  
HMRC also maintained that it had issued an effective warning.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Miss F the full 
amount lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably now refund Miss F the 
money she has lost.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warnings it gave and whether 
the consumer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Miss F 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
Effective WarningsUnder the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
 
HSBC has provided copies of warnings that Miss F would have seen and it has explained 
she would have seen two different warnings, as a result of her selecting two different 
payment purposes when making the respective payments. Those selections being;
Unexpected request from Bank/Police/Organisation for one of the payments and Paying 
friends and family for the other payment. The two warnings displayed were as follows;
When selecting Unexpected request from Bank/Police/Organisation;
Fraudsters can pretend to be from places you trust, like your bank, the police or HMRC.
They can call from a number that appears valid when checked. If they ask you to move your 
account or repay an overpayment, it could be a scam.
 
If youre not sure, hang up and call the contact number on your card or an official phone 
number. We may not be able to recover payments that turn out to be fraudulent.
When selecting Paying friends and family;
Fraudsters can pose as friends and try to get to know you through social media.
They then ask for money to help with emergencies. Take time and talk to someone
you trust before sending the money. We may not be able to recover payments that
turn out to be fraudulent.
Miss F would then have to click continue in order to confirm the payment.
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. I appreciate 
that the warnings HSBC gave were, in part, relevant to the type of scam Miss F fell victim to, 
in that they do mention HMRC. But I dont think they were impactful enough to affect a 
customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of this scam succeeding was 
reduced. 
I dont consider either of the warnings here constitute an effective warning for the following 
reasons:
 
- I appreciate the first warning detailed above mentions the consequences of 
proceeding; in that it warns the funds might not be recoverable and it mentions 
HMRC and that the number calling may appear valid. But the warning doesnt talk 
about or explain about number spoofing, which is often a hallmark of these types of 
scams.
- The warning also isnt specific to the type of scam Miss F is falling victim to. While it 
mentions HMRC, it then talks about fraudsters asking victims to move accounts or 
repay an overpayment. These are hallmarks more typical of safe-account scams and 
not specific to the circumstances of the scam Miss F fell victim to.
 
- The warning also doesnt provide any context on how prevalent these types of scams 
are. For example, it doesnt stress how the fraudsters will apply pressure and often give threats of criminal action. And while it does mention calling an official number, it 
doesnt give context as to why this is so important, against an alternative check that a 
consumer may consider/be coached to do that wouldnt uncover the scam (such as 
checking a website, as was the case here with Miss F checking the number online).
- The warning also references an overpayment. Here Miss F wasnt being asked to 
pay an overpayment. She was being asked to pay unpaid taxes (and then court 
fees).  So again here, the warning isnt relevant to the type of scam Miss F is falling 
victim to.
Miss F selected paying family and friends when making the other payment. I accept Miss F 
assertion that the fraudster guided her through the payment journey and told her which 
payment option to select. Likely because they knew choosing this option would mean Miss F 
wouldnt be presented with warnings that more closely mirrored her situation. And therefore 
the warnings Miss F was shown bore no resemblance to the situation Miss F found herself 
in. So I dont think the warnings Miss F saw here were impactful and ought to have affected 
her decision to make the payments.
I dont underestimate the challenge HSBC faces in providing warnings strong enough to 
break the spell in a sophisticated scam such as this. But the difficulty of meeting that 
challenge does not mean that the warnings given by HSBC here were sufficient or contained 
enough clarity to meet the minimum requirements in the CRM Code. Overall, Im not 
satisfied the warnings met the requisite criteria here. I dont consider the warnings given 
were effective warnings as defined by the CRM Code. It follows that HSBC has not 
established it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement relating to ignoring an 
effective warning.
Even though Ive concluded the warnings were not effective, I appreciate the warnings did, in 
part, have some relevance to the scam Miss F fell victim to. So, for completeness, Ive gone 
on to think about whether Miss F reasonably moved past the warnings to proceed with the 
payment, given the particular circumstances of the fraud that she fell victim to. 
Did Miss F have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Miss F had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Miss F failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code and I 
dont consider Miss F lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I say this because; 
- Miss F took steps to verify the callers identity. She had checked the number she was 
being called from against the gov.uk website and it appeared to be genuine. The 
scam used a technique which is likely to be unknown to most people, and clearly was 
to Miss F  that of number spoofing. Without knowledge that numbers can be 
manipulated in this way, Miss F would have further reason to think the call was 
genuine.
- Miss Fs circumstances meant a call from HMRC wasnt entirely unexpected. She 
had set up a limited company earlier in the year and hadnt registered for Corporation 
Tax or filed her first set of accounts. She had limited experience when it came to 
taxation matters with her limited company, given she had only recently set it up. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Miss F to have thought she may have some tax due 
to be paid.
- Miss F says she was under pressure and panicked. The fraudsters convinced her that if she didnt make the payments straightaway, she would face court and a 
potential prison sentence. I think the fraudsters deliberately tried to create fear in the 
hope it would disrupt Miss Fs thought processes and make her more compliant. Its 
important to consider the actions Miss F took against this backdrop.
- Ive thought carefully about what HSBC has said about Miss F receiving messages 
via an instant messaging service. While with the benefit of hindsight, it might seem 
less plausible to receive letters from an organisation such as HMRC in this way. Its 
important to consider this in the context of the specific circumstances of this case.  
Miss F had already carried out checks that had satisfied her she was genuinely 
dealing with HMRC, so I dont think its unreasonable that she may have been less 
alert to the medium of communication being used. The letters received were also on 
what appeared to Miss F has legitimate HMRC headed paper, making them seem 
real to her. And its important to keep in mind the highly pressured nature of the 
situation. The fraudster set out to instill fear in Miss F and to cause her to panic. They 
threatened her with the potential of a custodial sentence. The seriousness of the 
threats being made is likely to have had a significant impact on her decision making.
On balance, Im satisfied that when considering all of the circumstances Miss Fs response 
was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Miss F to think clearly in the moment. 
HSBC was aware of this type of scam at the time Miss F fell victim to it and by not providing 
a relevant warning to her at the time, missed an opportunity to protect her from financial 
harm. In the absence of any warnings on these types of scams from HSBC, Miss F was not 
alive to the possibility she was dealing with a fraudster and this is another reason why I dont 
think she acted unreasonably by engaging with the fraudster and making the payments.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Miss F sent the payments she did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc should;
- refund Miss F the money she lost, being £2,599
- pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date it declined Miss Fs claim under the 
CRM Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman