DRN-3382066
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have decided not to refund him after he says a
builder scammed him out of money.
What happened
Mr T employed the services of a builder who came recommended to him through an app,
with endorsements from other people in his local area. The recommendations said the
builder was very good and reliable.
Mr T made three payments to the builder in total: £3,000 on 30 September, £1,250 on 16
October and £1,000 on 23 October 2020. Mr T said the builder was due to start work on the
12 October 2020 and finish on the 2 November 2020. He says some work was completed as
agreed but this was to a terrible standard. He says the builder then took money to complete
a veranda and lay grass, but this wasnt started and believes these additional payments are
therefore a scam. Mr T says the second and third payments should be treated as a scam
because those payments were for the materials which were never received and work which
wasnt completed. He also said the builder was terrible, lied and didnt turn up or stick to the
deadlines. Mr T said the police were involved at one point because of the actions of the
builder. In later correspondence Mr T also mentioned a summer house that was never
completed, and this cost him an additional £8,000 to complete.
Mr T says the first payment was meant to be for £2,000 but the branch member of staff
made a mistake and transferred £3,000. Mr T doesnt seem to have raised a complaint about
this and there isnt any record of it in HSBCs notes either.
HSBC looked into things and said the matter was a civil dispute between Mr T and the
builder and did not meet the definition of a scam for the purposes of the Contingent
Reimbursement Model (CRM). It said the builder completed some work for Mr T, but this 
was not finished or to the standard he expected. And it said the receiving bank confirmed
there had been no issues with the recipients account, which also indicated it wasnt a scam.
It suggested that Mr T contact Trading Standards and consider seeking advice from the
Citizens Advice Bureau or a legal advisor. HSBC acknowledged it did provide poor customer
service and Mr T was incorrectly told part of the money he lost would be refunded. It
apologised for this incorrect information and offered £150 in compensation to Mr T.
Unhappy with the response from HSBC, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. One of
our investigators looked into things. He concluded that the evidence he had seen didnt
persuade him this was a scam for the purposes of the CRM. He considered that the builder
had completed some work after receiving the initial payment from Mr T. He thought it was
more likely that the relationship had broken down and wasnt persuaded that the builder had
set out to deliberately scam Mr T from the outset.
Mr T disagreed and in summary said:
-The investigator ought to listen to the calls between him and HSBC where it agreed 
hed been the victim of a scam.
-HSBC offered compensation but never paid this to him.
-He isnt complaining about the first payment. This payment was for work started but 
not completed to a satisfactory standard and he is taking the builder to the small 
claims court for this.
-He had to call the police as the builder turned violent.
-His complaint only concerns the second and third payments where the work wasnt 
started, and the builder took the money under false pretenses.
-He didnt receive any deliveries or materials for these payments and has had to pay 
£8,000 to have some of the work completed.
-The builder is a con artist who scammed five other people. Hes been reported to 
Trading Standards.
-Mr T has provided a request for a judgement against the builder for the sum of 
£10,920, dated February 2021.
The investigator in response to Mr T said: 
-Because the builder completed some work it seemed more likely than not that he 
was a legitimate provider of goods. And that would be the case even if he turned out 
to be violent or provide a poor service.
-The second and third payments were a continuation of the first and considering the 
situation as a whole, he didnt feel this was a scam.
Ultimately, as Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings, so the complaint has been
passed to me for consideration.
During the course of my investigation of the complaint I have also requested some additional
information:
-We asked Mr T if he had an invoice or quote for the work to be completed by the 
builder. He has provided a partial screenshot of an email conversation which sets out 
at least some of work to be completed, but doesnt provide the price, timescale or 
any other details of the agreement.
-Mr T has provided a partial screenshot of a text message exchange between him and 
the builder  showing a payment was received by the builder and an agreed start 
date for the work. No other correspondence between Mr T and the builder has been 
provided.
-We asked if Mr T had contacted Trading Standards and if he had, could he provide 
the responses he received. He has provided some partial screenshots of emails with 
Barclays fraud department, Action Fraud UK, the Police, Companies House, and the 
Economic Crime Victim Care Unit. Included within this is a partial email where Mr T 
says he has contacted Trading Standards, but he hasnt provided any evidence of 
that contact or any responses he received.
-We asked Mr T more about the small claims court paperwork he provided. The claim 
amount was for over £10,000 which would potentially cover the losses he is also 
seeking from Barclays. In response Mr T said he is out of pocket because of the 
costs hes incurred for putting things right and finishing the work he had paid the 
builder to do. He hasnt given us an update on the progress of this court claim 
despite us asking.
-We asked Mr T if he did any research about the builder prior to using his services 
and he hasnt answered this question. He has said the builder was trading under a 
company name but was actually a sole trader. He also provided a partial email to 
Companies House that he sent some months after the payments  complaining 
about the builder trading under a company name. The Companies House response 
said the builder wasnt using Limited or Ltd in its name so it wasnt in breach of 
any law. But it would write to the business to ask it to remove the registered company 
number it was using (as that company had been struck off).-We also contacted the bank where Mr Ts money was received. It has confirmed that 
there hadnt been any other reports of fraud relating to the account holder.
I considered the complaint and set out my provisional findings to both parties, asking them to
respond with any further points or evidence for me to consider before I reviewed everything
again and set out my final decision. Here is what I said in my provisional decision
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ts
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr T, and I can understand why he feels that his
money should be returned to him. But not all cases where individuals have lost sums of
money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the CRM Code
which HSBC has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr T made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the
circumstances of the payment Mr T made and whether HSBC ought to reimburse him under
the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push
payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier Subsections
(a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr T made, formed part of a
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr T strongly disagrees. He
feels the builder has scammed him.
Mr T says he entered into an agreement with the builder and this did not go as planned
saying work wasnt carried out. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know and
what the evidence shows, that the builder set out with an intent to defraud him.
Id start by saying there is very little evidence to support what was agreed between Mr T and
the builder or how and when this relationship broke down. Mr T hasnt provided any
correspondence between them, or sufficient evidence to show what work was done, or the
quality of that work. Hes provided invoices of work he says show he needed to employ
others to complete the job, but I cant see that these support that the original builder didnt do
the work as they appear cover different jobs to be done.
The partial screenshots show very little about what was agreed between the parties which
makes it difficult to determine what the dispute actually is and certainly they dont persuade
me that Mr T has been scammed. The lack of evidence about the events, persuades me this
is a case of a dispute between the two parties instead.
There also appears to be a number of factors, in the circumstances of this case, that dont
carry the typical hallmarks of a scam or of a trader setting out with an intent to defraud:
-Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with 
their bank, the evidence Ive seen, regarding the beneficiary account, indicates that the 
builders account was legitimate and had been established long before Mr Ts payments were 
made. And the bank hasnt said it had any concerns about how the account was being 
operated prior to Mr T making his payments.
-The builder came recommended through a local social media app with at least two 
endorsements of his work from others living in Mr Ts area. I wouldnt expect others to have used the services of the builder and then recommend them if they had also been scammed. 
Mr T says others have been scammed by this builder, but he hasnt provided evidence to 
support this. And even if Mr T is able to provide evidence of others who are unhappy with the 
quality of the builders work, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to safely say there was an 
intent for the builder to defraud Mr T.
-I understand that Mr T may have raised the matter with Trading Standards, but Ive not seen 
any evidence from Mr T that there were ongoing investigations by them, or any other 
authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud.
-Mr T says himself he isnt disputing the first payment he made to the builder as the work was 
completed but not to the standard required. And he has confirmed he believes this payment to 
be a civil dispute matter, which he is pursuing with the builder. Im persuaded the second and 
third payments flow from the same agreement Mr T had with the builder and therefore it would 
be fair to treat this all as one matter.
-I can see that a company used by the builder, with the builders name as a linked individual, 
was struck off companies house in 2019. This was in the year before Mr T used the builders 
services. This is unusual but it doesnt persuade me the builder wasnt trading legitimately as 
a sole trader after this point or that he set out to defraud Mr T.
After taking everything into careful consideration, Im persuaded this appears to be a case of
a builder, potentially failing to honour an agreement, by not providing the work that the
customer expected.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask HSBC to
refund the money Mr T has lost, under the Code.
I dont think HSBC treated Mr T unfairly when it said the payments, he made were not
covered by the CRM Code.
Ive seen no other reason why HSBC ought to have prevented these payments or needs to
refund Mr T here. Ill explain why. Theres no dispute here that Mr T authorised these
payments.
Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow Mr Ts instructions. But it was possible for
HSBC to stop the payments if it had reasonably been put on notice that the funds were being
misappropriated. Ive considered whether there was anything about the circumstances
surrounding these payments that could have put HSBC on notice that Mr T might be at risk
of financial harm and there isnt.
Mr T isnt disputing the first payment of £3,000 to the builder and the following payments are
smaller in value and made by online transfer. Mr T had no reason to interact with the bank
when making these two subsequent payments and I dont think the value would have caused
HBSC to be concerned. Also, by this point the builder was an existing payee on the account
and Mr T hadnt raised any concerns about the previous payment hed made.
And even if HSBC had intervened at the second or third payment, Mr T wouldve explained
how hed found the builder and the recommendations about him. And that he had already
completed some work and was carrying out more. So, Im satisfied HSBC, would have more
likely than not, been satisfied Mr T wasnt at risk.
So overall, Im not persuaded HSBC made any errors in processing these payments in line
with Mr Ts instructions or had any reason to intervene or prevent the payments in the first
instance.
Mr T has also provided evidence to show he is intending to take the builder to a small claims
court. That is the kind of civil action Id expect in situations like this and supports my view
that Mr Ts circumstances ought not be treated as a scam. From the calculations he has
submitted, in his request for judgement, it appears as though his losses for these
transactions would be covered. So, this may be a more suitable option for Mr T to explore
given my findings on his complaint against HSBC.
Customer serviceMr T has requested that we listen to the calls between him and HSBC where he says he was
told he would receive a refund. HSBC hasnt been able to provide these to us.
But Im not persuaded they would change the outcome of this complaint.
Mr T says he was told he would be receiving a refund and HSBC has admitted that a
conversation along these lines did occur, confirming this was an error on its part. In
consideration of that error it offered to pay £150 in compensation to Mr T.
Mr T believes this error means he should receive the refund he was promised. But the
mistake by HSBC doesnt led me to conclude the whole complaint should be upheld. I can
see how being told he would receive a refund and then not would be frustrating, upsetting
and confusing. I think the offer of compensation reflects that. But this doesnt distract from
my findings that the complaint isnt one covered by the CRM and that HSBC didnt make any
error in processing the payments in the first instance.
Mr T has said the offer of the £150 has been expressed by HSBC but never paid. I believe
the offer is fair, so I recommend HSBC makes this payment to Mr T. But I dont recommend
that it pays anything further.
My provisional decision
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr T and I dont underestimate the impact
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or
reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr T says he has lost.
But I recommend that HSBC Bank UK Plc pays the £150 compensation it has already offered to Mr T.
Mr T responded to say he didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary he said:
-He was extremely disappointed with the outcome 
-He was disappointed that HSBC had not provided the call recording where it 
promised to refund him  he doesnt understand why the bank can agree something 
and then go back on their word
-HSBC actually offered him £250 not £150
-He would be willing to accept £1,125 in full and final settlement of his complaint
-Hes provided all the documents and evidence that the builder scammed five other 
people.
-He is a victim on all of this and HSBC said it would give him his money back. 
-This has caused him immense pressure, stress and anxiety.
I put Mr Ts suggested settlement offer to HSBC and his comments about the £250 in 
compensation he thought he was promised. It responded to say it couldnt find any evidence 
that it offered the £250 and its decision remained the same. 
I expressed HSBCs response to Mr T and said I would review the complaint again and his 
additional comments before issuing my final decision on his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not minded to change my opinion, from that set out in my provisional 
decision. Mr T hasnt provided me with any additional or different information to persuade me that this 
isnt a civil dispute. Therefore, Im still satisfied this isnt an issue covered by the CRM and 
my reasons for this are set out in my provisional decision which is included above.
I know Mr T feels strongly that he should receive a refund on the basis that the was 
promised a partial refund, during a call with HSBC. As I said in my provisional findings, we 
havent been able to obtain a copy of that call. But, as Ive also said, Im not persuaded that 
listening to the call would change the outcome of this complaint. HSBC has acknowledged it 
said part of the money would be refunded to Mr T and this was incorrect. As Ive said this 
doesnt change the fact that the complaint isnt one thats covered by the contingent 
reimbursement model and I dont think HSBC needs to refund Mr T for his losses here. As 
such Id only be looking to award compensation for the error HSBC made. And as I set out 
previously, I think the offer of £150 compensation to reflect this error is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
HSBC needs to pay Mr T the £150 compensation. But I dont recommend that it pays 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman