DRN-3257966
The complaint
The estate of Mr S, represented by Mr W and Mrs S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
unfairly withheld money from an account.
What happened
In July 2020, Barclays blocked the late Mr S accounts. At the time of the block, the accounts 
held £40,000 in the current account, and around £7,250 in the savings accounts.
Barclays made the decision to close the accounts and issued a one-day notice to close letter 
in August 2020. Despite this, they continued to withhold the money from both accounts.
Mr W and Mrs S are executors of the estate of Mr S, and therefore feel they should have had 
access to the money held within the accounts. They say not having access to the money has 
meant they were in breach of their duties as executors and have received threats of legal 
action from the beneficiaries of the funds. Mr W and Mrs S say this overall situation has 
caused a lot of stress and anxiety for them as individuals.
In September 2020, Barclays informed Mr W and Mrs S they were returning the £40,000 
current account balance back to the original source. 
Mr W and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. Following our involvement, Barclays 
agreed to release the £7,250 to Mr W and Mrs S.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said, based on what Barclays had told him, they 
were entitled to return the £40,000 back to the original source. But he thought the £7,250 
should have been released to Mr W and Mrs S. He asked Barclays to return to the money to 
them and include 8% simple interest.
Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view. He thought the 8% interest should be paid 
monthly  rather than annually, and he wanted compensation.
Barclays responded and didnt agree to pay 8% interest. They explained the £7,250 was 
held in a savings account with a 0.01% interest rate. So, they thought this interest amount 
would be more appropriate in the circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr W and Mrs S feel very strongly about whats happened  especially in 
relation to the impact this overall situation has had on them, and their surrounding families. 
Like the investigator, Ive considered all of these points, but I dont believe its necessary to 
address each and every point that Mr W has made in order to meet my statutory duty to 
determine this complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address 
the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered 
everything that Mr W, Mrs S and Barclays have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that while Im sorry to hear of the personal distress and upset this situation 
has caused Mr W and Mrs S, the rules of our service mean that they cant complain about 
any matters personal to them which they think Barclays are responsible for. While Mr W and 
Mrs S are acting on behalf of the estate of Mr S, I can only consider the impact on the 
estate.
The review, block and withholding the money
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
business relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Barclays were complying with their legal 
and regulatory obligations when they reviewed the late Mr Ss accounts. So, I cant fairly say 
theyve done anything wrong. Barclays arent obliged to tell a customer when theyre 
reviewing an account  or the reasons why.
Ive looked at the time Barclays took to review things. I understand the accounts were initially 
blocked around 9 July 2020. Barclays then made the decision to close the accounts on 4 
August 2020. I am aware, however, that Mr W and Mrs S didnt have access to the money 
from the accounts. 
Barclays informed Mr W and Mrs S in September 2020, that they would be returning the 
money from the current account  around £40,000  back to the original source. While I cant 
share the full details of this with Mr W and Mrs S, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Barclays took the appropriate action in the circumstances.
I havent however, seen anything to satisfy me of why the money from the late Mr S savings 
account wasnt released to Mr W and Mrs S. Since our services involvement, Barclays have 
agreed to release the money  but I think this could have been done sooner. And therefore, I 
think Barclays need to do something to put things right.
The closure and reasons
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Im satisfied 
Barclays complied with the terms and conditions when closing the late Mr Ss accounts. This 
service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless there is evidence 
of a clear error being made. While Im aware Barclays hasnt shared the reasons for their 
decision, Ive reviewed their reasons and Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays have made 
an unfair decision.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider that Barclays have acted fairly when returning the £40,000 from the late 
Mr S current account, back to the original source. I do, however, think they should have 
released the money left in the late Mr S savings account sooner than they did. And to 
recognise the loss of use of the funds, I consider interest should be paid on this amount.
Ive thought carefully about the appropriate level of interest. I appreciate Mr W, on behalf of 
him and Mrs S would like compensation. However, Ive explained that our rules dont allow 
me to consider the impact this situation had on him and Mrs S as individuals. Thats because they werent the consumers of Barclays in relation to this complaint  the consumer here is 
the estate of Mr S. 
Mr W has also asked that the interest be paid monthly, rather than annually. We award 8% 
simple interest a year for a few reasons, including that its the current rate on judgment 
debts; and people often have to pay a higher rate than this is theyve borrowed money to 
cover a loss  for example on a credit card. So, while I recognise Mr W isnt happy with this 
amount, I havent seen anything to satisfy me that a higher amount, or different award is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about Barclays argument where they rightly pointed out that our usual 
method of redress concerning savings accounts would be to use the interest of the savings 
account. This is a fair reflection of what the money would have earned. However, the 
savings account was how the late Mr S chose to invest his money. As were talking about 
the estate here  the money would have never remained in that savings account and 
therefore I think its only fair to consider the loss of use of the funds for the estate. If the 
money was able to be withdrawn when it should have been  the beneficiaries would have 
been able to make use of the money. That wasnt able to happen, and that was due to 
Barclays actions. Therefore, having considered everything fully, I consider the fair 
settlement is to honour the 8% simple interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Refund the outstanding amount left in the late Mr S saving account to the estate.
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the full amount they withheld from the 
estate. They should calculate this from 9 July 2020, up to the date they refund it.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Barclays should give the executors of the estate 
a certificate showing how much is taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman