DRN-3595465
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about advice she was given by Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (trading 
as Pearl Assurance) to opt out of her former employers occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and start a personal pension instead. She also complained about being advised to 
contract out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS). 
In bringing this complaint, Mrs B is represented by a claims management company that I will 
refer to as F.
What happened
The advice Mrs B complains about was provided in 1991. As part of the industrywide 
pension review set up by the Securities and Investment Board, the advice provided to Mrs B 
was reviewed. Mrs B was advised to re-join her OPS in 1995 and to contract back into the 
SERPS in 2000. In respect of the advice to contract out of SERPS and to opt out of the 
OPS, a loss assessment was carried out and redress offered. Phoenix paid compensation 
into Mrs Bs personal pension. 
Mrs B, through F, complained to Phoenix in 2020. In summary, F said: 
Phoenixs representative was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation) rules. The representative had common law duties as well. 
They also a duty to disclose risks and alternatives to allow informed consent, as 
confirmed by the 2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health 
Board. 
Mrs B shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved of a significantly lower 
retirement income as a result of opting out of her employers defined benefit scheme 
and contracting out of SERPS. Had she been warned of that risk, she would not have 
accepted the advice to opt out and contract out. 
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs Bs personal pension had been included as 
part of a review. A loss assessment was undertaken, and compensation paid in respect of 
the advice to opt out of her employer scheme and to contract out of SERPS. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Although it thought the complaint hadnt been 
made in time, Phoenix consented to our service looking into Mrs Bs concerns.  These were 
looked into by one of our investigators. But they didnt uphold the complaint. 
 
In summary, they said the suitability of the advice Mrs B had been given had already been 
reviewed as part of the pension review. And they said businesses werent required to update 
or recalculate reviews that had already been completed. 
F on behalf of Mrs B, didnt accept the investigators assessment.  It said that Phoenix hadnt 
demonstrated it had completed the review in line with regulatory requirements. And it said 
that in these cases, the FCA made it clear that FG17/9 guidance should be used to 
determine appropriate redress. And where a firm couldnt demonstrate it had carried out the 
review in accordance with regulatory requirements the only fair assumption to make was that 
it had not. And it said Phoenix could have carried out the review correctly, by for example 
investigating if reinstatement into the DB scheme was possible.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2022. I explained why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. I asked for any responses to be provided to me by 
13 July 2022. No responses were received from either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further arguments or submissions have been provided to me, Im not persuaded to 
change my opinion on this complaint, from that set out in my provisional decision. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.
F has referred to the regulatory and legal position at the time the advice was provided to 
Mrs B, and why Phoenix shouldnt have recommended that she opt out of her OPS, contract 
out of SERPS and take out a personal pension. I agree with F that Phoenixs adviser had 
legal and regulatory duties when advising Mrs B in 1991. 
But in Mrs Bs case, Phoenix has in essence accepted that the advice was unsuitable after it 
carried out the pension review, and that she shouldnt have been advised to opt out of her 
OPS and contract out of SERPS. So, I dont need to consider the suitability of the advice that 
was given to her. 
Phoenixs redress calculation carried out as part of the pension review, established that 
Mrs B had suffered a loss. It subsequently offered her compensation and paid that into her 
personal pension. The crux of the issue argued by F on behalf of Mrs B that I need to 
consider, is whether the review was carried out correctly and appropriate compensation paid 
to her.  
As F should be aware, the pension review was intended to be a one-off exercise. It was 
instigated as a result of concerns about widespread pension mis-selling.  Its aim where mis-
selling was identified, was to put customers as far as possible, back in the position they 
would have been in, if they hadnt received unsuitable advice. 
The regulator at the time the review was set up, set out a methodology for businesses to use 
to assess whether individuals had suffered a financial loss, and to calculate appropriate 
compensation. A number of assumptions were used in the methodology, taking into account 
what the regulator at that time thought were fair; to be able to calculate appropriate 
compensation. These included assumptions about the expected investment returns to 
provide benefits at retirement. 
However, over time since the review was carried out, economic conditions such as falling 
annuity rates and reduced investment returns, have resulted in the assumptions that were 
used not being reached in a number of cases. And that has resulted in the compensation 
paid to many consumers, not providing the benefits they were intended to do.
As Ive said above, the review was intended to be a one-off exercise. And although 
assumptions in relation investment growth and annuity rates havent been met in many 
cases, that isnt necessarily a reason for a review to be carried out afresh. 
The purpose of the pension review was to draw a line in respect of this particular issue of 
pension mis-selling. It was intended to provide some finality for customers and businesses. Customers would know that their concerns had been investigated and where mis-selling had 
been identified, compensation would be paid. And businesses would know that having 
investigated and paid compensation, it wouldnt have any liability in the future to pay further 
compensation. 
In its submissions, F on behalf of Mrs B has referred to new guidance issued by the FCA in 
2017  FG17/0. This was originally aimed at complaints upheld about OPS transfers 
received after 3 August 2016, or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been 
settled in full and final settlement already. 
Although it was at first proposed that any case which fell within the pension review period 
would be omitted from the updated guidance, it was eventually decided that some cases 
could be included. And this was in relation to where reviews by businesses hadnt been 
carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of the review - and/or where 
the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by those standards. 
F doesnt think Phoenix had demonstrated it had completed the review in line with regulatory 
requirements. And it said that in these cases, the FCA made it clear that FG17/9 guidance 
should be used to determine appropriate redress. And where a firm couldnt demonstrate it 
had carried out the review in accordance with regulatory requirements the only fair 
assumption to make was that it had not.
Contrary to what our investigator said, if I believed the redress calculation carried out by 
Phoenix hadnt been carried out correctly, then I could direct Phoenix to carry out a fresh 
calculation using the updated guidance. And that is provided for in the Pension Review 
bulletin five. This said that where an offer had been made and accepted in good faith and it 
was subsequently identified that the calculation contained an error, a re-calculation should 
be carried out using the same effective date as the original calculation.
However, Ive not seen any evidence in this case which indicates Phoenix didnt carry out 
the review in accordance with the guidelines set out by the regulator at time the review was 
carried out. 
F has said Phoenix could have carried out the review correctly by for example, investigating 
if reinstatement into the DB scheme was possible. But, from the evidence Ive seen, Phoenix 
did make enquiries about whether Mrs B could be reinstated in her OPS. And the response 
was that it wasnt possible.
In the particular circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
Phoenix should carry out a fresh calculation using the FG/17 guidance. From what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that the transfer was reviewed, and compensation calculated in line with the 
regulators guidance and requirements at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman