DRN-2567452
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited is still requiring him to pay a 
fixed sum loan agreement he entered into to pay for an HGV driving training course.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr T enrolled on a course to train as an HGV driver through a company who I 
shall refer to as E. The course cost around £2,698 and he financed the course through a 
fixed sum loan agreement which he took out with Omni. Mr T says E told him he would be 
entitled to choose which supplier he wanted to use to carry out the course.
Mr T says he unsuccessfully tried to contact E a number of times over the proceeding 
months. Around January 2019 he contacted Omni who advised him E had gone into 
administration and it said it would look to source a new course provider. In February 2019 a 
new company  who I shall call H  contacted him to say it would provide the course. But 
Mr T says the company initially only thought it was providing the exam facility. He says he 
explained he needed the training as well, which H subsequently agreed to. But in June 2019 
Mr T again says H contacted him and he says he was only offered the exam facility again. 
He says he referred H back to the correspondence in February 2019, following which H 
enrolled him onto a course to start in August 2019.
In August 2019 Mr T contacted H as he said the location of the course wasnt suitable as he 
said it was too far away and he didnt have transport available. Mr T says H told him he 
couldnt cancel it, so he contacted Omni again. He reiterated the course location wasnt 
suitable and he also said he was initially told by E that he could choose his course provider. 
Omni initially said he couldnt withdraw from the course as hed had since June 2019 to do 
so. Mr T complained to Omni who later agreed to cover the cancellation fee and it asked him 
to find some quotes from local course providers.
Mr T then sourced a local course provider and he said the course would cost around £1,410. 
Omni agreed for him to attend this course, but he failed the first test. Omni paid for him to re-
sit the test, but he failed that too. The new provider said Mr T could benefit from further 
training and it said it would cost around £475 for him to do this. But Omni wasnt willing to 
cover this cost. It said the original terms of the contract with E covered Mr T for a resitting of 
an exam if he failed the test. But it said the contract didnt cover further training. So it said it 
wasnt liable for these costs. 
Mr T didnt think Omni was treating him fairly. He highlighted the replacement course only 
cost £1,410, so he queried why he was being asked to repay the full £2,698 plus interest. He 
also didnt think he should have had to pay interest on the loan for the time he wasnt using 
the course. Finally, he didnt think he should have to pay the full cost of the loan if he wasnt 
receiving the full benefit of it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr T was claiming for breach of 
contract by E. She explained that, under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) 
Omni could be held liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. She said E had 
breached the contract by not providing the course. But she said Omni had rectified the 
breach of contract by arranging a new course provider.
The investigator said she didnt think the terms of the contract provided for additional training 
if Mr T failed the exams. So she didnt think it was unfair for Omni to say it wasnt willing to 
cover the additional training costs. Finally she said Mr T had agreed to the original course 
cost of £2,698 and this was what the contract was for. So she didnt think Omni needed to 
refund anything further.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained it was unfair to have to pay 
£2,698 plus interest for a course that cost £1,410. He doesnt think the original course cost is 
relevant to the situation as he remained of the belief that he should only be required to pay 
the cost of the course he actually did  i.e. £1,410.
Mr T also said he asked Omni to end the agreement when he didnt want to complete the 
course with H, but it wasnt willing to do so. He thinks Omni has treated him unfairly 
throughout this process. He thinks it should have told him E had stopped trading at the start 
and he doesnt think he should have had to find this out himself. 
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr T is ultimately complaining about losses he says hes incurred following E ceasing to 
trade. I think its important to set out first of all that Omni and E are separate companies and 
Mr T has entered into two separate contracts here  a contract with E to enable him to train 
as an HGV driver and a separate finance agreement where Omni paid the cost of the course 
for Mr T and Mr T agreed to repay this cost, plus interest.
However, Mr T paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement provided by Omni. 
S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Omni is jointly liable for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here. 
Under the terms of the contract Mr T entered into with E, E was required to facilitate a 
training course to enable him to train as an HGV driver. In turn, Mr T was required to pay 
£2,698. Shortly after entering into the course E ceased to trade, so didnt fulfil its contractual 
requirements. So Im satisfied it breached the terms of the contract and, as I said above, 
Omni is liable to put this breach of contract right.
The terms of the contract Mr T entered into with E isnt available, so we dont know what the 
contract sets out as redress where the course isnt provided. So Ive thought about whether 
Omni has acted fairly and, in doing so, Ive also thought about Mr Ts rights under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). S54 of the CRA entitles Mr T to enforce the statutory 
terms of the contracts  i.e. for the course to be provided with reasonable care and skill and 
in a reasonable time. I think its fair to consider the remedies as set out by the CRA as a fair 
way of remedying the breach of contract in this case.S55 of the CRA requires the trader to perform the service again, to the extent necessary to 
complete its performance in conformity with the contract. So I think it was fair for Omni to 
look to arrange for the contract to be fulfilled  i.e. arrange and pay for a replacement course 
provider to carry out the training and provider the exams.
It seems Omni initially arranged for H to complete the contract. Mr T has set out why he was 
unhappy with the facility provided by H. I can understand why he had the concerns he did. 
And I think its important to note that the CRA requires the service to be provided without 
significant inconvenience to Mr T. But I also note H initially enrolled Mr T onto the training 
course in June 2019, but he didnt complain about using H until August 2019. So I can 
understand why Omni initially said he couldnt withdraw from the course.  
However, I understand Mr T says he only understood the extent of the travelling involved 
when he first started to try and attend the course, which is when he realised it wasnt a viable 
alternative. I think Omni treated him fairly following this in enabling him to withdraw from the 
course provided by H and allowing him to source his own course provider.
Mr T is ultimately unhappy Omni wouldnt pay for the additional training the new course 
provider said he needed after he failed the first test and then the subsequent retest. The 
finance agreement sets out the contract with E provided Category C+E, Pass Protection. I 
understand the pass protection entitled Mr T to an additional retest if he failed the practical 
part of the test. Mr T failed the initial test and was given the opportunity to retake that test, so 
Im satisfied the pass protection aspect of the contract was fulfilled.
The terms of the contract would have set out that E would facilitate the training up to taking 
the test and the subsequent resitting of the test. And its usual for the terms of a contract 
such as this to set out that any additional expense to continue with the course, would be the 
responsibility of Mr T. So I dont think its likely the terms would have covered the cost of 
further training as this would typically be an extra expense Mr T would have had to pay 
himself. As I dont think the additional training the course provider says Mr T needed would 
have been covered by the contract with E, I dont think it was unfair for Omni to say it wasnt 
required to cover this cost.
I note Mr T is unhappy that hes been asked to pay £2,698 for a course that he says only 
costs £1,410. But, as I said above, under the terms of the contract he had with E he was 
required to pay £2,698. He entered into a separate contract with Omni where Omni paid the 
course fees for Mr T and he agreed to repay the credit he received to pay for the course. 
Similarly, the terms of the contract entitled Omni to charge interest from the date the contract 
started and Im satisfied the contract sufficiently sets out the cost of credit and Mr T has set 
out he was aware how much it cost. 
Ultimately Mr T was aware of the cost of the course he entered into and he chose to enter 
into the contract with E. I cant hold Omni liable if he thinks he was charged too much for the 
initial course. In paying for a replacement course provider to complete the contract, Omni 
has fulfilled its requirements under S75. And Mr T hasnt given me anything to show that the 
replacement course wasnt a suitable like for like course or wasnt provided with reasonable 
care and skill.
Ive taken all of Mr Ts comments into account, but Im satisfied Omni has handled his S75 
claim fairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything further to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman