DRN-1723655
The complaint
Mr L complains Lookers Motor Group Limited mis-sold Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) 
insurance to him for his car.
What happened
Mr L says the leaflet he received when being sold the GAP insurance by Lookers said itd 
cover the cost of a new replacement car and the valuation from the insurance company. And 
that the salesman who sold him the policy said itd cover the difference between the market 
value, and the net invoice price paid for the car. But he says hes lost a lot of money 
because he didnt know the insurance company would use the average of five separate 
comparison websites to calculate this figure. He said hed never buy a car through a website 
like this and didnt know this is how any settlement would be calculated. The settlement was 
calculated using an average price for his car of £27,481  but the invoice for his car was 
£29,831.75. So, he complained to Lookers about being mis-sold the policy because he feels 
hes lost out in the claim that was made.
Lookers replied to the complaint and said the leaflet hed been given was just a general 
information leaflet designed to cover a number of policies. They added Mr L had been given 
the full policy document, and if hed decided the cover wasnt right for him having read all of 
this, then he could have cancelled it.
Mr L didnt accept this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. He 
found that the leaflet and policy document did give different information. But the average 
used to calculate the cost of the car was actually higher than the invoice showed once youd 
factored in costs that shouldnt be included, and discounts.
Mr L didnt agree though. He said he was never told about minus any deposit, or deductions 
so still thinks hes lost out and wouldnt have bought the policy if he had been. And the claim 
should be based on the total value of the vehicle before any discounts are applied. In 
addition, Mr L said hed visited Lookers, and was annoyed to find they were still selling GAP 
insurance the same way as when they sold it to him. He also added Lookers had sold him 
the policy the same day but understood from the rules they werent allowed to do this. He 
says Lookers have altered the paperwork to show theyve abided by the rules and sold the 
policy to him two days earlier, and he can prove this.
Our investigator felt it was fair to interpret any invoice price, or net invoice price, as noted 
in the policy documents, as minus any discounts given in the purchase of the car. 
Because Mr L didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of his correspondence to us Mr L has raised concerns about the finance agreement 
used to buy the car. And hes raised concerns about how the claim has been settled by the 
insurance company. But this decision only deals with the sale of the policy and not those 
points.
I think its helpful to explain in complaints where its possible mis-selling has happened, our 
general approach would be to refund the cost of any premiums plus interest. It wouldnt 
usually be to ensure the claim was paid out as things were potentially described. 
In this case Ive reviewed the paperwork provided and agree there is a discrepancy in how 
the settlement will be paid.
The leaflet says itll pay the difference between the market value, and the net invoice price. 
And the policy documents say itll pay the difference between the market value, and the cost 
of a replacement vehicle.
What Mr L says he was told, and whats contained in the leaflet, are the same. So it seems 
reasonable to conclude Mr L is correct in saying thats what the salesman told him. This 
means I think its more likely than not Mr L was told the wrong information about how the 
policy worked.
But, I next need to consider whether Mr L has suffered any detriment from this  and its 
important to explain my role is consider what Mr L would have done if hed been given the 
correct information, rather than upholding his complaint as if the incorrect information was 
true. 
Mr L has said, on several occasions, hed never have taken out the policy if he understood 
properly how it worked. This would usually mean Mr L should be refunded the cost of the 
premiums, plus interest, if the mis-selling complaint was upheld. The cost of the premiums 
were £499. But, Id need to factor in that if Mr L were to get a refund of the premiums, then in 
effect this would mean the policy never existed. So, in theory, Mr L would then need to repay 
the claim settlement hes had which is around £10,800.
And, as hes said himself, hed never have taken out this policy if he properly understood 
how it worked. Ive also not seen anything to suggest Mr L would have sought to take out a 
different policy elsewhere.
Well never know exactly what Mr L might have done if hed been sold the policy correctly, 
but overall Im satisfied hes not lost out as a result of this.
Im also not sure Mr L has suffered the loss hes claiming for. I say that because the 
calculation used by the insurer does appear to be the net invoice price paid for the car. The 
car itself is quoted at £29,980, theres a discount of £2,544.25, giving a net figure of 
£27,435.75. And the figure the insurer has used to calculate the payment to Mr L is higher 
than this.
By not taking into account the discount this could suggest Mr L would then in effect be paid 
out more than he actually paid which wouldnt seem fair.
Im not going to make a finding on this issue though, as I think this is potentially a matter for 
the insurer to consider. 
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman