DRN-3461295
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund him after he lost 
money to an investment scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 5 April 2022. Ive copied the content of that 
document below.
Mr B has explained that he met an individual on an online dating app who he began 
speaking to through a popular instant messaging app. Unfortunately, unbeknownst to Mr B 
at the time, the individual was in fact a fraudster.
After the pair had been speaking for a few days, the fraudster explained that he had made a 
career out of investing, and that he worked for a company that also helped others to invest. 
The fraudster suggested he could teach Mr B how to invest in Bitcoin. The fraudster guided 
Mr B on how to open a cryptocurrency account (or wallet) and also to download his 
companys online app, which Mr B did. He said the app appeared legitimate  it provided 
access to a trading platform, showed the account balance, payments in and out and even 
had a built-in customer service centre.
Mr B said that at this time, he also conducted online searches for the trading company in 
question, and found a website that appeared legitimate. On this basis, Mr B decided to 
invest £500. The investment appeared to be successful and Mr B was able to withdraw 
£615.50 back to his wallet, then on to another bank account.
A few days later Mr B was encouraged to invest more money. Reassured by his first 
success, he agreed to invest £3,000. Again the investment appeared to be profitable and Mr 
B was able to withdraw £3,632.50.
The following day, the fraudster told Mr B there were some positive trends and now was a 
good time to invest a larger amount. Mr B therefore invested £9,000 this time. However after 
making the transfer the trading platform stopped working. Mr B asked the fraudster what had 
happened but was told to contact the apps customer services. The customer service advisor 
then stated the system has detected that this account has been frozen by the system as a 
result of abnormal means to obtain excessive profits. When asked how to unfreeze the 
account, Mr B was told he would need to pay 50% of the account funds (quoted as over 
$21,000) within 24 hours to cancel the abnormality. He was also told that if not completed 
within this time, the system would deduct 20% of the account funds every day as a fine.
Mr B acknowledges he was concerned by this and it was the first time he considered he may 
potentially have been scammed. He said the fraudster also begun being more dismissive at 
this time. Mr B decided to sleep on the decision, then the following morning paid the fine. 
He made three payments that day of £6,000, £4,000, then £250. However once he paid 
these funds, the fraudster stopped speaking to him and he was still unable to withdraw 
anything from the app. He realised at this point he had been the victim of a scam and called 
first direct to log a fraud claim.
First direct reviewed Mr Bs claim, but didnt consider it could assess the payments for a 
refund as the funds were transferred to Mr Bs own wallet. First direct considered Mr B 
should take the matter up with the wallet provider directly.
Mr B disagreed with first direct so brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She considered that:
Despite payments being made to Mr Bs own wallet, there were still enough 
indicators to suggest Mr B may be at risk of financial harm by the time he made the 
second payment of £3,000 towards the scam. 
Had first direct intervened by calling Mr B to ask further questions before processing 
the £3,000 payment, it wouldve been able to uncover that Mr B was the victim of a 
scam. 
Mr B should therefore receive a refund of funds made to the fraudster, minus the 
initial payment of £500 and any profits Mr B had already received during the scam.
First direct didnt agree with the investigators recommendation. To summarise some of the 
key points it disagreed with, first direct said that:
The investigator hadnt considered a deduction to reflect Mr Bs contributory 
negligence, particularly when making the three final payments after Mr B had good 
reason to consider that the investment was not what he initially thought it to be.
The opinion concludes that account activity was unusual and suspicious, but there is 
no suggestion that there were any concerns with the named payee, or warnings 
concerning the wallet provider involved.
Even if first direct had intervened during the payments, any concerns that Mr B was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud could have been no more than a suspicion. First 
direct doesnt consider it was obliged to make a call, its noted that the questions the 
investigator has suggested it couldve asked are very specific and couldve been 
deemed intrusive and unwelcome. First direct considers it unlikely that Mr B wouldve 
revealed personal information to the agent, or that he wouldve accepted that this 
was a scam based on a single phone conversation.
A recent court decision suggests that the legal standards the investigator judged first 
direct against were too high.
Any interest applied to the refund should be at the account rate, rather than at 8% 
simple interest, as Mr B incurred no interest or charges related to the scam 
payments.
The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I intend to partially uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
I am aware that first direct considers too high a standard has been applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of obligations to question its customers instructions based on the 
recent Phillipp judgement and its implications to the Quincecare duty. HSBC has now received a large number of final decisions related to APP fraud, published on our website 
and so I see no reason to go into detail as to all our relevant considerations.
First direct doesnt consider its liable for Mr Bs losses, as payments went to a 
cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Bs name. A voluntary code does exist to provide additional 
protection against APP scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). 
First direct is a signatory to this code. But it only applies to payments made directly to 
another person  payments made to a customers own accounts arent covered by the CRM 
Code. That means the CRM Code provisions arent relevant to Mr Bs complaint  his 
payment instruction was to send money from first direct to his own cryptocurrency wallet.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
Ive considered what first direct was obliged to do here. In broad terms, the starting position 
in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. And I must take that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case. 
But that is not the end of the story: 
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer. 
Regulated firms like first direct are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
(BBA) February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances); and,
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognized by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved 
in the development of).
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether first direct acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr B, when he made six transfers from his first direct account to his new cryptocurrency wallet over the course of around a week, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. 
Mr B accepts he authorised the transfers himself. First direct therefore had an obligation to 
follow his instructions. Nonetheless, as Ive noted above, there are some situations in which 
first direct should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding these 
transactions. I consider that as a matter of good practice, first direct shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. Ive thought about what first direct 
could therefore reasonably have had knowledge of at the time these payments were made.
Ive considered whether the transfers made by Mr L were significantly out of character or 
unusual. While the transfers were made to Mr Bs own wallet, scams involving transfers to 
cryptocurrency accounts were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that 
where payments were also out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the 
originating bank.
When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, its 
often a finely balanced matter  and banks have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there a indications of higher fraud risks, and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts with minimal unnecessary disruptions. 
Having considered Mr Bs payments to the fraudster and his account statements from the 12 
months prior to the scam, I can see the second payment Mr B made to the fraudster of 
£3,000 was one of the largest hed made in that 12 month period. However I still dont think a 
payment of this value was so out of character that first direct acted unfairly by not intervening 
at this point. I therefore dont think first direct should be held liable for the losses Mr B 
incurred when making the first two payments of £500 and £3,000 to the fraudster.
However, I do think that the third payment Mr B made of £9,000 was sufficiently out of 
character. This was significantly more than his usual account spending, occurred the day 
after the previous transfer, and was also an increased payment amount to a new payee, 
demonstrating a change in how he was utilising his account that is indicative of fraud. I 
therefore think first direct should have intervened at this point, making further enquiries with 
Mr B about the nature of the payment before processing it.
Had it done so, I think first direct wouldve had sufficient concerns that Mr B was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud and had it provided advice on these types of scams, I dont think 
Mr B wouldve proceeded with the payment. I say this because Mr B has explained that he 
believed this payment was genuine, largely due to having built a recent friendship with the 
fraudster, having seen the app and platform that demonstrated he was making successful 
investments and having also successfully received money back from those investments. 
These are all fairly known hallmarks for these types of scams, which I think should have 
been known to first direct at the time. Therefore, had first direct asked how Mr B became 
involved in this investment, I think there wouldve been red flags that first direct couldve 
advised Mr B on, which wouldve caused him to doubt what he had been told until that point. 
As first direct failed to intervene on this payment, and as I think that made a difference here, 
I think first direct is fully liable for reimbursing Mr B the funds he lost in this transfer. I think at 
this point Mr B hadnt been negligent in making the payments  I say this because Mr B had 
started investing a small amount to initially trial with, had valid reasons to think it was 
legitimate based on receiving returns and believed he had struck up a genuine friendship 
with the individual advising him. However Im not persuaded the same can be said for the 
subsequent payments.
Mr B has explained that after he sent the £9,000 payment, his online trading app was 
blocked and he was told he needed to pay a 50% deposit to unfreeze it. Mr B has acknowledged that this concerned him and he was worried at this point that he was falling 
victim to a scam. However, the next day he decided to pay the amount requested to avoid 
daily deductions to his profit. 
I dont think that what Mr B was told by customer services was plausible  while its possible 
to imagine an app taking some form of commission on profits, I dont think 50% would be 
realistic. And likewise I dont think a fine of this value is realistic either. In this case 
particularly, Mr B was told the block was applied due to concerns over how Mr B obtained 
such profits  I dont see how a payment towards the app would allay these concerns so that 
it would unblock the account. I also think the reasons for the account block suggested Mr B 
might not be involved in something legitimate. Overall I think the message Mr B received 
from customer services shouldve caused concerns. I appreciate Mr B was being told by 
both the fraudster and the customer services provider to proceed, and that he was under 
pressured time constraints, but it seems Mr B did have genuine concerns at this point, and 
yet decided to proceed anyway in fear of losing profits he believed hed made.
As Mr B had concerns when making the final three payments, but decided to proceed in 
spite of these, I think he should be held jointly liable for these losses, with first direct 
refunding 50% of the losses he incurred to acknowledge it also couldve done more to stop 
the scam.
First direct has suggested that applying 8% simple interest to any refund would result in a 
windfall to Mr B and that this figure is based on historic interest rates. Given the average 
costs of borrowing over time, its has long been our approach that this is a suitable rate to 
compensate for being deprived of funds and Im satisfied its fair to apply it in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr B, being a reduction in redress to what was 
previously recommended. But in all of the circumstances of the complaint, I think this is a fair 
outcome to reflect both partys responsibilities.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to partially uphold this complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc 
trading as first direct to refund Mr B:
£9,000 for the third payment Mr B made to the fraudster
50% of payments four to six Mr B made to the fraudster
8% simple interest from the date Mr B made these payments to the date of 
settlement.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Mr B raised 
the following further points:
Many banks around the time of his fraud had banned crypto trades and some banks 
actively stopped any payments to the crypto wallet he used in 2021
The FCA banned the cryptocurrency provider from trading in the UK temporarily a 
couple of months after Mr Bs fraud had taken place
Mr B now receives alerts for transactions he makes for any amount on his account, 
but this wasnt the case when the fraud occurred.HSBC asked for clarification on whether it should make a deduction for profits that Mr B 
received from the fraudster, as recommended by the investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im partially upholding 
Mr Bs complaint on the same grounds. I have thought about what Mr B has said since the 
provisional decision, but it doesnt persuade me to reach a different outcome.
I concluded that HSBC should have intervened when Mr B made the third payment to the 
fraudster, as this payment activity was out of character based on his usual account use. I 
agree with Mr B that payments made to cryptocurrency wallets should be deemed as higher 
risk by banks, based on the prevalence of scams. This is why I considered that had HSBC 
stopped the third payment Mr B made for further checks before processing it, it wouldve 
been able to identify that Mr B may be at risk of financial harm from fraud, based on what Mr 
B wouldve told it and couldve stopped Mr B from proceeding with the payment. 
However, not all payments towards cryptocurrency are scams  they can also be used for 
legitimate purposes and investments  so I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by 
allowing payments to be made by Mr B towards a cryptocurrency wallet and also why I dont 
think HSBC shouldve intervened sooner than the third payment Mr B made. While I 
appreciate the FCA banned the wallet provider Mr B used shortly after he made these 
payments, as these bans werent in place when the payments were made by Mr B, I dont 
consider it would be fair to have expected HSBC to treat these payments differently at the 
time they were made than payments to any other cryptocurrency provider.
In relation to HSBCs query, I dont consider it would be fair for HSBC to make a deduction 
for profits it received from the fraudster. These profits were linked to the first two payments 
Mr B made to the fraudster, which Ive concluded HSBC werent required to intervene on. 
Therefore these credits wouldve still been received by Mr B, even if HSBC had intervened at 
the point I consider it shouldve. I dont think any payments made by the fraudster in order to 
induce Mr B to invest further should reduce the liability of HSBC not intervening in 
subsequent payments.
For these reasons I remain of the view that Mr B and HSBC should each be partly liable for 
Mr Bs losses, as set out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
refund Mr B:
£9,000 for the third payment Mr B made to the fraudster
50% of payments four to six Mr B made to the fraudster
8% simple interest from the date Mr B made these payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman