DRN-3713357
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna, have reported 
arrears to her credit file. 
What happened
Miss M has two loans with Novuna. In April 2020, Miss M requested and was given three-
month payment holidays on both loan agreements as she was struggling financially because 
of the impact of Covid-19. Miss M later requested and was granted further three-month 
payment holidays for both loans.
Following the end of the second three-month payment holidays, Miss M was still struggling 
financially and so approached Novuna for further assistance. Novuna agreed to payment 
plans for each loan where they would accept reduced monthly payments for twelve months. 
But Miss M later noticed that Novuna were making reports to her credit file that both her 
loans were in arrears. Miss M wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Novuna looked at Miss Ms complaint. They explained that while no arrears were reported 
for the three-month payment holidays shed benefited from previously, it was correct that 
arrears would be reported for the later twelve month reduced payment plan. However, 
Novuna did acknowledge that Miss M had been given incorrect information about this by one 
of their agents, and they apologised to Miss M for this and made a payment of £50 to her as 
compensation for any upset or inconvenience shed incurred. Miss M wasnt satisfied with 
Novunas response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Novunas response  including 
the explanation that the arrears reporting was correct as well as the payment of £50 
compensation  already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Miss M remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In almost all circumstances, if a loan account holder isnt able to meet the contractual 
monthly instalment payments due on a loan, then the loan will be considered as having 
fallen into arrears and will be reported as such by the loan provider to the credit reference 
agencies. And this true even if a reduced payment plan has been agreed between the loan 
account holder and the loan provider, as is the case in this instance. 
A recent exception to this was the three-month payment holidays that Miss M applied for and 
received during the Covid-19 pandemic. These payment holidays were mandated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who published a series of special guidance papers 
during the pandemic which outlined how loan providers must provide these three-month 
payment holidays to eligible loan account holders. This guidance included that, because of 
the unprecedented circumstances that had led to the publication of this guidance  i.e. the 
Covid-19 pandemic  for these three-month payment holidays only, loan providers shouldnt 
consider arrears as having accrued during these payment holidays and therefore shouldnt 
report any arrears to the credit reference agencies during the payment holiday terms. 
The FCAs guidance also included that a loan account holder would only be able to benefit 
from two three-month payment holidays per loan  as Miss M did  and that if a loan account 
holder continued to need financial assistance from a loan provider after theyd benefitted 
from two such payment holidays, that any continuing assistance should be given inline with 
the loan providers standard processes, including that the stipulation that arrears shouldnt 
be considered as having accrued or be reported should no longer apply. 
As such, when Miss M spoke with Novuna and explained she was still struggling to meet the 
monthly payments required on her loan, it should have been the case that the payment plans 
she agreed with Novuna  which entailed Miss M paying lower monthly payments than was 
contractually required on the loans  resulted in Novuna considering that arrears were 
accruing on those loans and reporting those arrears to the credit reference agencies. 
Miss M has said that she feels that she wasnt adequately informed by Novuna that arrears 
would be reported to the credit reference agencies if she accepted the reduced payment 
plan. But Ive listened to a recording of a telephone call between Novuna and Miss M where 
this point is clearly explained to Miss M. And Ive also seen copies of letters sent to Miss M 
by Novuna which also explained that her credit file may be impacted by the payment plan.
Miss M also feels her credit file should show as being in a payment arrangement and show 
that shes making reduced monthly payments towards her loans. Miss M has provided a 
screenshot of her credit file to this service to show this isnt the case. But the screenshot 
Miss M has provided is only a summary screen, and doesnt show the full information 
reported by Novuna, which would only be visible on a review of Miss Ms full credit file  
which would include the outstanding balance on the loans, which would reduce monthly,    
in-line with the partial payments that Miss M has made. 
It should also be the case that Novuna were reporting that Miss Ms loan accounts were in 
agreed payment arrangements  although importantly, as explained, these payment 
arrangements dont mean that the accounts arent considered as being in arrears. This 
means that it should have been the case that Novuna were reporting that Miss Ms loan 
accounts were in payment arrangements and that arrears were accruing on the accounts 
because of the reduced payments being received as a result of those payment 
arrangements, with the outstanding balances reported on the accounts reducing monthly in-
line with the reduced payments that Miss M was making.
Novuna have provided this service with the reports that theyve made to the credit reference 
agencies, and Im satisfied from these that Novuna have made accurate reports in line with 
what would be expected of them as per the above. And while Novuna have confirmed that 
they initially didnt report that Miss Ms account were in agreed payment arrangements, this 
has now been corrected by them. And, notably, this correction doesnt impact the reporting 
of the arrears on the accounts, which would be reported the same regardless of whether 
Miss M were in agreed payment plans or not. 
Miss M may ask what benefit agreeing a payment plan has, given that arrears are reported 
regardless of whether a loan account holder agrees one or not. The main benefit to agreeing 
a plan is that the loan account provider agrees to not chase the loan account holder for the 
arrears that accrue during the time that the plan is in place. But, as explained, it isnt the 
case that a reduced payment plan such as the ones that Miss M agreed means that arrears 
dont accrue on the accounts and arent reported to the credit reference agencies. Novuna have acknowledged that they didnt initially report that Miss M was in agreed 
payment plans to the credit reference agencies, and they also acknowledge that Miss M was 
given incorrect information on one occasion as to whether a reduced payment plan would 
affect her credit file. Novuna have apologised to Miss M for this and made a payment of £50 
to her by way of compensation.
This feels fair to me, and I can confirm the £50 compensation that Novuna have already paid 
is commensurate with what I would have instructed them to pay, had they not already done 
so. In arriving at this position Ive considered that Miss M was clearly informed correctly 
about the impact of a payment plan on many other occasions by Novuna, as explained 
above, as well as that Miss M appears to have needed financial assistance at the time of the 
reduced payment plans, such that Im not convinced that Miss M would have been able to 
meet the full contractual payments required on the loans at that time as she contends, given 
her circumstances as she explained them to Novuna. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Novuna issued to Miss Ms 
complaint, including the explanation of the reports Novuna has made to her credit file and 
the payment of £50 compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to 
whats happened here. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Novuna to take any further action. I hope Miss M will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman