DRN-2315311
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium for his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
Background
Acromas sold Mr N an insurance policy, which he chose to pay for in instalments of around 
£22.50 a month. After hed bought it Acromas checked a shared insurance database and 
learned about a non-fault incident Mr N hadn't told it about when taking out the policy. 
Acromas wrote to Mr N and said that his premium instalments would increase to around 
£27.50 a month as a result of the incident.
Mr N contacted Acromas. He said that, while hed told his previous insurer that another car 
had hit his and damaged his wingmirror, he hadn't made a claim at all and had fixed the car 
himself. Acromas looked again at Mr Ns premium and told him that his premium would 
increase further to around £43.30 a month.
Mr N complained. Acromas told Mr N that where its policyholders have suffered a loss, then 
it treats the incident as a fault claim, even if the policyholder hasn't actually made a claim. 
That had caused his premium to increase. But it said that, as a gesture of goodwill, it would 
reduce Mr Ns premium to the originally adjusted sum of roughly £27.50 a month. It told Mr N 
that if he didn't want to pay the increased premium he could cancel his policy without paying 
a cancellation fee. And Acromas would only charge him for his time on cover based on the 
initial policy premium. Mr N didn't think Acromas had dealt with him fairly and brought his 
complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2020. For ease I've reproduced my provisional 
findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
Mr N is clearly unhappy that an incident in which he didn't even make a claim, has caused 
Acromas to charge him more for his policy. And while I can understand why he might not 
follow Acromas logic, that doesn't mean its treated him unfairly.
It might help if I explain that calculating insurance premiums is essentially a matter of risk 
assessment. That is when deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make 
an assessment of the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they 
might have to pay out for those. Insurers take into account numerous different factors when 
deciding what to charge for their policies. And if the insurers assessment of risk increases, it 
may decide to increase the premium to address that increased risk. Thats something that 
insurers are allowed to do.
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for 
its policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account 
when assessing risk. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and 
the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something 
we would usually think its fair to interfere with.
Acromas has told Mr N that it treats any loss, such as Mr N experienced when his car was 
damaged and he fixed its wingmirror, the same as a fault claim even where  as happened 
here  the policyholder doesn't make a claim on their policy. Acromas assessment is that 
drivers whove had a recent incident thats caused them a loss, which they haven't 
recovered, are a higher risk than drivers who haven't suffered a loss.
Similarly its clear that Acromas considers drivers with recent non-fault claims pose a higher 
risk than drivers who havent had any claims at all. Thats because insurers say their 
statistics show that drivers whove had recent non-fault incidents are more likely to go on to 
be involved in fault claims later on. And insurers reflect that change of risk in the premiums 
they charge, even though the drivers involved werent to blame for the claims.
In this case Acromas initially learned from the shared database that Mr N had made a 
non-fault claim. So it adjusted the premium it charged him to reflect that. And if it thinks 
drivers whove been involved in a non-fault incident pose a greater risk than drivers who 
havent, its entitled to charge a higher premium to cover that risk. But when Mr N told it that 
in fact he didn't make a claim at all but had suffered a loss and sorted it out himself, 
Acromas adjusted that premium again to reflect what it thinks is a higher risk than a non-fault 
incident. Mr N might not agree with Acromas risk assessment, and it's not the approach all 
insurers take. But as long as Acromas applies its criteria fairly - that is it treats policyholders 
with similar circumstances in the same way, then thats an approach its allowed to take. So 
it doesn't mean it's treated Mr N unfairly. Especially as, in this case, Acromas agreed to 
reduce the premium to the amount it calculated when it initially thought the incident was a 
non-fault claim.
Also while Mr N clearly wasn't happy with the increased premium, its notable that Acromas 
didn't insist that he pay it. It told him he could cancel his policy, without any form of penalty 
or cancellation fee and that it would only charge him for his time on cover at the original 
premium he had agreed to pay. I think that was a fair thing to do. 
For completeness Ill add that our investigator didn't believe Acromas had treated Mr N fairly 
because: it hadn't asked him a clear question about whether or not hed had a driving 
incident during a phone call; and it hadn't provided us with a breakdown of how it had 
calculated Mr Ns increased premium. Our investigator based his first point on the call 
recording when Mr N rang Acromas to buy his policy. And during that conversation the call 
handler didn't directly ask Mr N whether or not hed had a driving incident. But I don't think 
she needed to. Mr N was initially looking for the policy online. And when answering the 
questions online he was asked if hed had any claims or losses, regardless of blame and 
even if no claim was made. I think that question is clear. Mr N said he hadn't had any such 
incident. But that wasn't accurate because he had. And that was the information Acromas 
used when it initially gave Mr N a quote over the phone. And when he called Acromas he 
said the information hed given online  with the exception of his annual mileage  was 
correct. So I don't think Acromas needed to ask Mr N again if he'd suffered any losses.
Further, our investigator was concerned that Acromas didn't provide us with a breakdown of 
how it had calculated Mr Ns premium. But in the specific circumstances of this case I don't 
think that matters. Mr N hasn't argued that Acromas miscalculated his premium, rather he 
disagrees with the fact that its treated an incident for which he didn't make a claim as a risk factor. But Acromas has confirmed that it considers all losses where no claims are made as 
if they were fault claims. And that it also rates consumers whove had non-fault claims as a 
higher risk than those who haven't had any claims at all. Its those rating practices that 
caused the premium increases which has in turn caused Mr N to complain. But as Acromas 
would apply those rating increases to its other customers with similar circumstances, I don't 
think it's singled Mr N out. So I don't think its treated Mr N unfairly and I don't need to see a 
breakdown of its premium calculation in order to decide thats the case.
Developments 
Acromas accepted my provisional decision. Mr N said he didn't understand the logic of it as 
no money changed hands only people to profit was insurance company.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I believe that when Mr N said no money changed hands hes referring to the driving 
incident which caused Acromas to recalculate his premium. But as Ive said above, its 
evident that Acromas thought Mr Ns involvement in the incident increased the risk he posed 
as a policyholder, regardless of whether or not he made a claim. So the fact no money 
changed hands isn't relevant to Acromas risk assessment. And it offered Mr N the option of 
cancelling his policy without paying the additional premium or a cancellation fee; so he'd 
didn't have to pay that additional premium if he didn't agree with it. It follows I'm satisfied 
Acromas treated him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman