DRN-2045535
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) avoided their home insurance 
policy and refused to pay their claim. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs B throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out a buildings and contents insurance policy with Lloyds through a broker. 
When her home was damaged by an escape of water, Mrs B made a claim under her policy. 
A loss adjuster, on behalf of Lloyds, investigated the damage.
Lloyds said that Mrs B answered the question about the number of bedrooms in her house 
incorrectly. It considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to 
avoid the policy, decline the claim because of that and return the premium paid.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was careless rather than 
deliberate or reckless. Because of this he thought Lloyds was entitled to void Mrs Bs policy 
and decline her claim, and that it should return to her the premium shed paid.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She made 
comments about other mistakes during her policy application, but the key issue is that Mrs B 
thinks the claim and the circumstances around it are unrelated to the number of bedrooms in 
her home. She also says that Lloyds didnt make it clear that the number of bedrooms was 
the most important consideration, nor did she have an opportunity to comment on the 
information Lloyds received from her broker.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on different 
terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable 
care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds thinks that Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she said, via her broker, that her home had five bedrooms. Mrs Bs home has six 
bedrooms, one of which is used for other purposes.
Ive looked at the question put to the broker at the time of the sale which was, How many 
bedrooms does your property have?
The information prompt next to the question explains that the answer should include rooms 
originally designed as bedrooms but used for other purposes, such as a study. The broker 
answered five.
Lloyds sent a statement of insurance to Mrs B showing the questions and answers provided 
at the point of sale. Directly underneath the question about the number of bedrooms was the 
same explanation that the number includes rooms originally designed as bedrooms but used 
for other purposes. 
So, having thought about the question and statement of insurance, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
set out the question in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Having reached that conclusion, Ive thought about whether Mrs B took reasonable care to 
provide accurate information. Ive seen the information pack describing Mrs Bs home and it 
clearly lists it as a six-bedroom property. I understand that its the only bedroom without an 
en-suite, and she uses it for purposes other than as a bedroom. But as the question asked 
by Lloyds specifically says the number of bedrooms should include, rooms that were 
originally designed as bedrooms, but are now used for other purposes, e.g. study or 
computer room, Im satisfied that the correct response shouldve been six. 
Ive seen that the broker wrote to Lloyds after it avoided the policy to confirm there had been 
an administrative error in recording five rather than six bedrooms on the application. 
Although the broker provided the responses, Lloyds sent a statement of insurance following 
the sale, which was Mrs Bs opportunity to review the information and let Lloyds know if 
anything was incorrect. The statement says:
Important Information
In deciding to accept this policy and in setting the terms and premium, we have relied on the 
information you have given us. You must take care when answering any question that we 
ask by ensuring that all information provided is accurate and complete. If we establish that 
you deliberately or recklessly provided us with false or misleading information, we will treat 
this policy as if it never existed and decline all claims. If we establish that you carelessly 
provided us with false or misleading information it could adversely affect your policy and any 
claim.
For example, we may
treat this policy as if it had never existed and refuse to pay all claims and return the 
premium paid. We will only do this if we provided you with insurance cover which we 
would not otherwise have offered
Ive also seen that the policy defines a bedroom as, A room used as or originally built to be 
a bedroom, even if it is now used for something else. Throughout the policy, the word 
bedroom is printed in bold to indicate that it has a specific meaning as defined in the policy.For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Mrs B ought to have known which rooms to 
include as bedrooms and she wouldve had the opportunity to correct the information. So, I 
think it was fair for Lloyds to avoid the policy for careless misrepresentation.
I know Mrs B thinks that the number of bedrooms isnt material to her claim for escape of 
water because the damage wouldve been caused whether she had five or six bedrooms. I 
understand why she makes this point. So Ive looked at what Lloyds wouldve done if the 
broker had said Mrs Bs home was a six-bedroom property. Lloyds provided evidence to 
show that at the time of the sale, it didnt offer insurance for homes which had more than five 
bedrooms (this has since reduced to four bedrooms). The screenshot of the application 
process shows that the dropdown box for selecting the appropriate number of bedrooms 
only allowed selection of a number between one and five. Lloyds also provided a table of its 
system rating and it simply wouldnt quote for six-bedroom properties. 
Based on this information, Im satisfied that if Mrs Bs broker had requested a policy for a six-
bedroom home, Lloyds would never have offered cover. For that reason, the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation  it made a difference.
Lloyds has classed Mrs Bs misrepresentation as careless, which provides the most 
favourable outcome for Mrs B in these circumstances. Therefore, in accordance with CIDRA, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to avoid Mrs Bs policy. This means, in effect, her policy 
never existed and Lloyds does not have to deal with her claim following escape of water. 
And, as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Lloyds to rely on it to avoid Mrs Bs policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman