DRN-2932511
The complaint
Miss W complains about Nationwide Building Society and their failure to provide her with the 
option to reverse a transaction shed made into her joint account.
What happened
On 11 June 2020, Miss W transferred funds into her joint account provided by Nationwide by 
mistake. Miss W has explained she intended to transfer the funds into an account provided 
by another lender and that the joint account she held with Nationwide hadnt been used for 
several years. 
Miss W attended her local branch the following day to try and reverse this transaction. But 
Miss W was unable to do so as she was unable to pass security on the account. Miss W was 
advised to action her request online instead, but she was unable to do so.
Miss W then became aware the joint holder of the account, her ex-partner, had withdrawn all 
funds from the account and closed it. Ms W was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint with Nationwide.
Miss W didnt think it was fair that she was unable to reverse the transaction sooner. She 
thought if she had been able to do so, her ex-partner wouldnt have been able to withdraw 
the funds within the account and close it. Miss W expressed her confusion as to why she 
wasnt able to reserve this transaction online, when her transfer into it had been completed 
in this way. Miss W explained she needed the money that had been lost, so wanted 
Nationwide to refund this amount to her.
Nationwide responded and didnt agree. They explained the other joint holder to the account 
had withdrawn the funds and closed the account on 11 June, the same day Miss W 
transferred the funds into it. And they explained the account allowed for either account 
holder to action the account and close it without the need for the others signature. So, they 
thought theyd acted fairly by actioning the joint holders request and didnt think the funds 
were lost because of anything they did wrong. They also suggested Miss W continue with 
her claim as a civil matter between her and the joint account holder. Miss W remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the financial 
and emotional impact the complaint had on Miss W and that the initial transfer was a 
genuine mistake. But they explained they could only hold Nationwide responsible for the lost 
funds if they thought Nationwide had done something wrong. And they didnt think 
Nationwide had, as the terms of the account allowed Nationwide to take instruction from one 
account holder, rather than both. They did recognise Miss W had encountered issues with 
her online banking and logging in but they didnt think this impacted the situation Miss W 
found herself in. So, they didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Miss W didnt agree. She maintained her view that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to not 
reverse her transaction. She explained shed spoken to other parties who agreed with her 
that it was unfair for Nationwide to say they had no responsibility for the lost funds when she 
was unable to access the account on her online banking. She explained if shed been able to 
access her account through this platform, she wouldve been able to withdraw the funds 
back into her paying account and her loss wouldve been avoided. So, she maintained her 
belief that Nationwide acted unfairly and should refund her the amount shes lost. As Miss W 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss W. I dont doubt Miss W 
transferred the funds into the joint account by mistake. So, I can understand why Miss W 
feels as thought shes been punished for a genuine error and why she believes this is unfair. 
I can also appreciate the transfer was for a significant amount of money and I recognise the 
financial impact not having access to this will have had. And I understand how dealing with 
this situation wouldve been an unwelcome stress considering Miss Ws current partners 
health and the treatment theyve had to undergo.
But for me to say Nationwide should refund Miss W to the money she mistakenly transferred 
into the account, Id need to be satisfied Nationwide made an error that prevented Miss W 
from withdrawing this and that without this error, Miss W wouldve found herself in a different 
situation. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether Nationwide acted fairly when allowing Miss Ws ex-partner to 
withdraw the funds and close the account without consent from Miss W. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the joint account Miss W held, which was an Instant Access account 
that was taken over by Nationwide from another lender. These state One some accounts, 
you can choose that any instructions on the account must be given by all account holders. If 
you do not choose this option, or your account does not allow it, we will take instructions 
given by one account holder as the authority by all account holders for us to carry out those 
instructions (for example, any one of you may withdraw money and/or close the account. 
Ive seen no evidence to show Miss W chose to select the option that stated instructions 
must be given by all account holders. And Nationwide have confirmed when they took over 
the account, it was set up for one account holder to be able to give instructions. So, when 
Nationwide received instruction from Miss Ws ex-partner, the other account holder, on 11 
June 2020, I think they acted fairly when actioning the instructions they received. Because of 
this, I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly by allowing Miss Ws ex-partner to withdraw the 
funds and close the account.
But Im aware Miss Ws main dispute centres around her inability to reverse the transaction 
before her ex-partner withdrew the funds and closed the account. From what Ive seen, I 
think Miss W was provided with conflicting information when she attended her local branch 
on 12 June, the day after she made the transfer. While I appreciate Miss W was unable to 
pass security to withdraw the funds there and then, I can see she was told she could do this 
online. 
But Nationwide have provided me with the operating information for the joint account Miss W 
held. And due to the fact it was transferred from P and no longer available, online banking 
wasnt available and it was a branch only account. Specifically, any withdrawals needed to be applied for in-branch, not online. So, I dont think the information Miss W was given was 
correct And I recognise the confusion this wouldve caused. 
But I dont think this had a material impact on her situation. This is because, even though I 
dont dispute Miss W has had issues using her online banking, I dont think she would ever 
have been able to reverse the transaction through this.
And even if Miss W had been able to log in to manage the joint account online, I dont think 
this wouldve made a difference to the situation Miss W now finds herself in. I can see Miss 
Ws ex-partner withdrew the funds and closed the account on 11 June. And I can see the 
account closure was fully executed on 15 June, some four days later. So, even if Miss W 
had been able to pass security checks in branch on 12 June, or log into her online banking 
to reverse the transaction that day, I dont think Nationwide wouldve been able to prevent 
the withdrawal and closure, which had already been requested. 
I appreciate Miss W may dispute this and say if online banking was an option, she wouldve 
reversed the transaction the same day she made it. But Ive seen no evidence to show this is 
the case. Any decision I make must be based on the evidence I have available to me which I 
then consider and decide what I think is most likely to have happened. And from this, I can 
see Miss W attended branch on 12 June so I dont think its unreasonable for me to assume 
this was the first day and first time she attempted to reverse the transaction she made.
So, because of the above, Im unable to say Nationwide acted unfairly and because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Miss W was hoping for and I appreciate it doesnt help 
recover the funds she believes shes lost unfairly. This dispute about the funds is a civil 
matter between Miss W and her ex-partner directly so shes able to pursue this dispute 
legally should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman