DRN-4417989
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the level of cover provided by BUPA Insurance Limited. She complains 
her private medical insurance policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Ms B had private medical insurance provided by her previous employer. In December 2022, 
she set up her own private medical policy on a continuation of cover basis. Thats to say she 
wanted to keep similar levels of cover, including retaining the opportunity to see the same 
surgeon and physiotherapist she was treated by on her group scheme. Ms B said she made 
this clear to BUPA, however, her new policy wouldnt provide cover for any treatment with 
her existing surgeon. 
Ms B said she contacted BUPA within the 21-day cooling off period to advise changes 
needed to be made, however, it refused her request. Ms B wanted BUPA to accept it made a 
mistake when setting up the policy and to allow her to see her preferred surgeon at the same 
place she was treated previously. Ms Bs policy is up for renewal at the end of November 
2023. 
BUPA declined Ms Bs request to make amendments to her policy. Initially, it said Ms B 
hadnt contacted it within the 21-day cooling-off period. However, when our investigator 
determined otherwise, BUPA said the cooling-off period was effectively null and void 
because Ms B had made a claim during that time. It said the policy can only be amended at 
renewal. BUPA said there are some instances where amendments can be made, although 
this is only with its written approval and that wasnt given here.
BUPA accepted itd provided poor customer service as two of Ms Bs calls were not returned 
and so it paid £100 compensation as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator said BUPA hadnt mis-sold the policy because it made clear at the time 
there were differences in the level of cover Ms B had opted for. She also said BUPA sent Ms 
B all the necessary sales literature in a clear and non-misleading format. However, she also 
said Ms B had requested to make an amendment to her policy within the cooling-off period 
and therefore felt BUPA shouldve allowed the changes to be made. She also said BUPA 
wouldve been entitled to charge a higher premium for the upgraded level of cover. Our 
investigator awarded an additional £100 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ms B accepted her findings, however, BUPA didnt. In summary, it said Ms B didnt mention 
her preferred hospital or surgeon prior to the policy being set up. It recognised the request 
came later but disputed this happened in January 2023. BUPA maintained its position that 
because shed already received treatment under the policy, she couldnt make changes to it 
within the cooling-off period. And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too agree the policy wasnt mis-sold and for the same reasons explained 
by our investigator. BUPA made it clear that London hospital cover wasnt included in the 
policy Ms B had opted for and Im satisfied she accepted cover on that basis. However, I 
think BUPA were unclear about whether changes could be made to Ms Bs policy and 
whether shed contacted it in time to make those changes. 
BUPA initially said Ms B didnt contact it within the cooling-off period and therefore her 
request to make changes was made out of time. Then, it later said shed never have been 
able to make changes because shed also began receiving physiotherapy treatment during 
the cooling-off period. I think this caused Ms B unnecessary confusion as she was given 
mixed messages and for that, I feel the compensation awarded by our investigator is fair. Ill 
explain why. 
When Ms B initially spoke to BUPA to discuss her options for continuing cover, Im satisfied 
one of her key considerations was cost. Im highlighting this because throughout the initial 
call, Ms B frequently said she wanted private medical insurance cover, but affordability was 
her main concern as she wasnt working at the time. She received quotes based on hospital 
coverage and she opted for middle level cover as this was more affordable. Ive not found 
any evidence that persuades me that Ms B asked for a specific hospital to be covered at the 
point of sale and therefore I dont uphold that part of her complaint. 
Ms B opted for hospital cover which didnt include central London hospitals and Im satisfied 
BUPA made it clear that was the case. I think it reasonable to expect that Ms B ought to 
have explained she had a hospital preference at that time, but she didnt. Instead, Ms B 
expressed her wishes to be treated by the same medical professionals, which Im satisfied 
her policy gave her access to, but not necessarily at the same London-based hospital she 
was previously treated at. Ms B was able to see the same physiotherapist at the London 
hospital because he was part of BUPAs recognised network and so he could charge BUPA 
directly. 
Ms B was also able to see her existing surgeon, should she need to, but only for 
consultations as he was part of BUPAs approved network and he can therefore charge 
BUPA directly. Anything other than a consultation would need to be completed at another 
BUPA hospital within the scope of Ms Bs policy range. I should also note that Ms B was 
able to see her surgeon at another hospital within her policy range without those restrictions. 
It was simply because she chose not to have central London hospital cover because of the 
costs involved.  
I should also highlight that during the sales call, Ms B was asked whether she had any 
planned, or ongoing surgery requirements, to which she said she did not. Ms B explained 
she was now being treated with physiotherapy and that this was what she wanted covered. 
Ms B explained she still wanted cover in case other spinal-related issues occurred, to which 
BUPA said it would provide cover. But at no point was there a discussion about where that 
treatment would take place, or which surgeon would carry out that treatment. 
Ms B became concerned about her policy cover when she was told her physiotherapy wasnt 
covered. She called BUPA to discuss this and was unable to get a response from BUPA for 
over one month. She eventually was able to speak to the adviser that sold her policy, and he 
confirmed the physiotherapy was covered and that shed been misadvised previously. Im 
satisfied thats the case and Ive seen that BUPA has been paying Ms Bs physiotherapist.
The issue here is with the level of service offered to Ms B. BUPAs already paid £100 
compensation as Ms B was unable to speak directly with the adviser and shed not received a call back on a couple of occasions. Im satisfied thats fair. But there are other service-
related issues that BUPA hasnt acknowledged, and I think thats unfair. In particular, Ms B 
spoke with BUPA on 17 January 2023 to share her concerns about her policy not covering 
her physiotherapy sessions. 
During the call, Ms B said she wanted cover on a continuation basis and that should she 
need to see her physiotherapist, or her surgeon, she would be able to. She also made it 
clear she needed to see her physiotherapist at the London-based hospital. I think the adviser 
should have probed further here to better understand what Ms B needed. I say that because 
having listened to the internal call made by the adviser to check whether Ms Bs policy was 
able to cover this, he was asked by his BUPA colleague about the surgeon Ms B had seen 
previously, and he explained this wasnt needed as Ms Bs treatment was now solely 
focussed on physiotherapy  which wasnt accurate given Ms B had said in the same call 
that she wanted to be able to see the same surgeon. I also thought it clear Ms B wanted this 
to happen at the London-based clinic, as shed also explained that was her preferred choice 
in the call. 
I think BUPA shouldve made it clear at this point Ms B was unable to make changes to her 
policy because shed already made a claim. BUPA told our investigator that Ms B wouldnt 
have been able to make changes to her policy at that time because shed already received 
physiotherapy treatment in December and January. However, it failed to mention that 
previously to Ms B. 
Ms B explained the sales literature shed received said she could make amendments to her 
policy within 21 days of receiving the documentation. And so, when she called in December 
and January to do that, she wasnt told it wasnt possible. I think BUPA shouldve told her 
that when she called to make adjustments to her policy. I also note this wasnt explained 
correctly within the final response from BUPA months later. I believe this caused Ms B 
unnecessary distress, inconvenience and confusion.   
To put things right, I think BUPA should pay a further £100 compensation for the overall 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
Im partially upholding Ms Bs complaint for the reasons Ive explained and BUPA Insurance 
Limited should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
poor service she received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman