DRN-3123287
The complaint
Mr P complains that a van he took on hire purchase from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited (MBFS) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject it and end the finance 
agreement.    
What happened
Mr P has explained that, in January 2021, he was looking for a van for his building business. 
He agreed over the phone to take a van from a dealership, M. He says that he explained that 
he intended at some point to convert the vehicle to a camper van, so it was important that it 
was in good condition. M assured him that it was. 
Mr P financed the van through a four-year hire-purchase agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement recorded that the van was three years old and had covered 57,000 miles. It had a 
cash price of £15,300 and Mr P was to pay a deposit of £2,550 and then just over £300 a 
month. Mr P had not seen the van before he agreed to take it. 
Quite soon after he took delivery of it, Mr P says that he noticed that there were problems 
with the van. He says there were dents and other damage, and that door and bumper panels 
were not properly aligned. In addition, there was an oil leak. He says he found evidence that 
the van had been involved in a side collision. Repairs had been attempted but had not been 
carried out properly. 
Mr P discussed his concerns with M, but it seems that it was unable to resolve them. In early 
April 2021 he complained to MBFS. He was given three options: to have the van repaired; to 
have a replacement; or to return it. Mr P said that he would like a replacement, but it seems 
that M was unable to find anything suitable. 
In its final response to his complaint MBFS said that M had accepted that Mr P had been let 
down and that it was in the process of finding a replacement van. It acknowledged that Mr P 
had suffered distress and inconvenience and offered him £250 by way of compensation. 
Given the offer that M had made, MBFS thought that it did not need to do any more.
Mr P referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He said that MBFS should accept Mr Ps rejection of the van, refund Mr Ps 
deposit and all but three monthly payments, reimburse additional oil costs and pay Mr P a 
further £350  an increase on the £250 offered. He also recommended that MBFS pay 
interest on the sums refunded. 
MBFS said that it needed to discuss the investigators conclusions with M. It has not 
however responded to accept those conclusions or to make an offer along the lines 
recommended. The case has therefore been passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am broadly in agreement with the investigator about this complaint should 
be resolved. 
As the investigator noted, the hire-purchase agreement was to be read as including a term 
that the van would be of satisfactory quality. There appears to be broad agreement that it 
was not. In addition, both M and MBFS appear to agree that an appropriate remedy in this 
case is to allow Mr P to end the finance agreement and to return the van. That has not been 
done, however, and there is no real agreement about the details of any such arrangement. 
MBFS has noted that Mr P has had some use of the van, so says it would not be fair to 
refund all the payments he has made. The investigator accepted that and suggested (in 
September 2021) that a refund of all but three payments would be appropriate. I agree that 
this is fair. Mr P says, and I accept, that he had used the van for about 3,000 miles since 
January  rather less than I might expect for a vehicle used for work purposes over an eight 
month period.      
As I have indicated, I broadly agree with the investigators conclusions about how this matter 
should be resolved. The problems with the van came to light very soon after Mr P took 
delivery of it and M was unable to arrange repairs, so it is fair that Mr P should be able to 
reject it. Because the parties have been unable to agree exactly how to arrange that, I set 
out below what I think should happen.     
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should:
end the hire purchase agreement and take no further payments from Mr P;
collect the van at no cost to Mr P;
refund the deposit of £2,550 with interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the 
date of the refund;
refund the fourth and subsequent monthly payments by re-working the account as if 
those payments had not been made; 
pay Mr P £25 as a contribution towards additional expenses resulting from the oil leak; 
and 
pay Mr P £350 in recognition of the distress he has suffered and the inconvenience 
caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman