DRN-2901586
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society cancelled his loan application, and gave 
him poor customer service on some related phone calls.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr P applied to Nationwide for a personal loan for a five-figure sum to buy a 
car. He says that in a phone call in June, he was told that the loan application had been 
granted, but then the next day he was told that Nationwide had no record of the loan. He 
applied for a second loan, and this was declined. He complained to Nationwide about that, 
and also about some phone calls made in connection with the loan, in which  after having 
passed though security at the start of the call  he was transferred to another department 
without having to go through security again.
Nationwide accepted that there had been two calls (rather than the nine Mr P has alleged) in 
which that had happened. It also accepted that Mr P had been misled in another call, in that 
he had been led to believe that his loan application was still open, when in fact it had 
expired. The first loan application had been granted in principle, but subject to Mr P 
providing some documents that were required as proof of income. Nationwide says it had 
given Mr P 30 days to provide these documents, and that he had not done so, which had 
resulted in the loan offer expiring. Mr P says the deadline was not 30 days, but three 
months. Nationwide said that one of its call handlers had failed to notice that the loan offer 
had expired, and had inadvertently reassured Mr P that it was still open, but that this had 
been a mistake. For that and for the two other phone calls, Nationwide paid Mr P £150 as 
compensation.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr P brought this complaint to our service. But our 
investigator did not uphold it. He accepted that Nationwide had given Mr P 30 days to 
provide the requested evidence, and that Mr P having failed to do so, the loan offer in 
principle had expired. He thought it had been reasonable of Mr P to believe Nationwides call 
handlers assurance that the loan offer was still open, but this error by Nationwide had not 
affected the outcome, since it had happened after the expiry. He thought that the 
compensation offered for that and for the other failings was fair. He did not accept that 
Nationwide had failed to ask security questions in any other than the two calls which 
Nationwide had identified.
Mr P did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen no evidence which supports Mr Ps recollection that he had three months in 
which to provide the documents he had been asked for. I have seen a standard template 
letter which Nationwide routinely sends to its customers, which states that the time limit is 30 
days. I dont know if such a letter was sent to Mr P (although Nationwide says it would have 
sent him one, it has not provided evidence to show that it did), but the fact that the standard 
text says 30 days strongly supports Nationwides assertion that it is 30 days. Even stronger 
evidence that that is indeed the case is the fact that the loan offer expired automatically, 
without human intervention, when 30 days had passed without Mr P providing the 
documents. If the time limit was actually three months, then Nationwides systems would 
have been programmed accordingly. So those two matters lead me to conclude that the 
correct time limit is 30 days.
I cannot rule out the possibility that somebody at Nationwide might have mistakenly told 
Mr P he had three months, but on the balance of probabilities I do not think that is likely. 
There is no evidence that he was told that.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that Nationwide declined the first loan in accordance with 
its established procedures, and that it acted reasonably in doing so. 
It is not in dispute that a staff member at Nationwide wrongly led Mr P to think that the loan 
application was still open, and that he still had time to submit his documents. But the 
consequence of that error is not that the loan application must be granted. Rather, I think 
that a fair remedy for that is the payment of some compensation for Mr Ps loss of 
expectation. I think that £150 is in line with what I would typically award for an error such as 
that.
Mr Ps second loan application was declined because of his credit score at the time, which 
may have changed since the first application. But even if it had not changed, or had not 
changed significantly, the second application was not identical to the first. It was for the 
same amount, but over a shorter term: six years instead of seven. That would have 
increased the monthly repayments, and that may have tipped the application over the line 
from affordable to unaffordable, by Nationwides criteria. So I dont think Nationwide erred in 
declining the second application.
Some of the £150 compensation which Nationwide paid Mr P was for his other complaint 
issue: not asking security questions when he was transferred to another person on some 
phone calls. But although Nationwide accepts that it was at fault for that, I dont think that 
issue is serious enough to merit separate compensation, because there was no actual loss 
or inconvenience caused to Mr P. It did not result in a security breach by a third party. 
I therefore think the apology is enough. (For that reason, I have not investigated whether the 
issue affected two phone calls or nine.)
So although Nationwide did not intend all of the £150 to be compensation for misleading 
Mr P about the loan, I will treat it as if it was, and on that basis I think that it is fair 
compensation for the matters raised in this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. But there is no need for him to reply, and if we do 
not hear from him then we will presume that he rejects my decision.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman