DRN-3709510
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim he made on his home 
contents insurance.
What happened
Mr F made a claim for a gold chain he said he lost when he was assaulted. Mr F told Covea 
he had no receipt for the chain as he bought the chain privately with cash around four years 
ago. Covea asked Mr F if he had any photographs of him wearing the chain, but Mr F said 
he didnt. Covea also asked if Mr F could remember where hed purchased the chain from, 
but Mr F said he couldnt. He said hed paid £2,400 for the chain. 
Covea declined Mr Fs claim and Mr F complained. Mr F told Covea no-one would be able to 
provide proof for things bought with cash and that hed been driving around trying to find 
where hed bought the chain from.
 
Covea issued its Final Response Letter (FRL) to Mr Fs complaint. It said that in the event of 
a claim, a customer needs to evidence the loss - which Covea said it didnt think was 
unreasonable. It said that without evidence of the type of chain Mr F lost, it couldnt source 
an exact replacement. 
The FRL also said that the chain was likely to have increased in value since Mr F bought it 
and that Covea would require an up-to-date valuation of it and proof of ownership for 
anything worth over £2,500. And that Mr Fs policy wording says that the claim limit for a 
single item is £2,000.
Mr F was unhappy Covea declined his claim. He brought his complaint to us. He said it was 
unfair for Covea to decline his claim because he couldnt provide proof of ownership for the 
chain.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said Mr F had been unable to provide 
evidence of the purchase of the item or the items value. Mr F responded that he didnt ask 
for a receipt as he didnt think to get one. But our investigator didnt change her view and Mr 
F asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr F was assaulted.
 
Mr Fs policy wording points out that Covea may require proof of ownership before paying a 
claim because it says in the Making a claim section of his policy wording that it may  ask 
you to send us.all the documents and information (including written estimates and proof of 
value or ownership) we may require. So I dont think Covea acted unreasonably by asking 
Mr F for proof he owned the chain.
Mr F says he didnt have a receipt because he paid cash for the chain. But Covea also 
asked Mr F if he had a photograph of him wearing the chain as an alternative form of proof, 
which I think takes reasonable account of Mr F saying hed paid cash for it. But Mr F said he 
had no photographs and no other alternative proof that he owned the chain. 
Mr F said he used cash from the sale of some of his possessions to buy the chain and that 
he has documents relating to the sale of these possessions.  He said as well the assault had 
been recorded with the police and by the hospital he attended. But neither of these are the 
same as evidence that Mr F owned the chain. 
So because of Mr Fs policy wording, because there is no evidence that he owned the chain, 
and because this service usually thinks its reasonable for a consumer to prove they owned 
an item they are claiming for, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Covea to 
settle Mr Fs claim for the gold chain. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman