DRN-2057238
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database, which is affecting her ability to open an account elsewhere.
What happened
Miss Y received funds of £3,600 into her Barclays account on 27 June 2017. She accepts 
she withdrew £2,000 of that money in cash and made payments using her bank card. She 
went abroad and when she came back found that Barclays had decided to close her 
account. It had received notification from the bank of the person sending the money that the 
payments were fraudulently obtained. And Barclays returned what was left of that money to 
that person which was by then £1,462.38. 
Miss Y raised a complaint about the account closure and on 17 November 2017 Barclays 
issued a final response about this and also referred to Miss Y wanting to have access to the 
funds in her account before it was closed. Miss Y referred that complaint to this service but 
not within our time limits. And one of our investigators told her in September 2018 that we 
couldnt look into it as a result.
Since then Miss Y has raised a complaint about the CIFAS marked applied at the time her 
account was closed. She believes that this has stopped her getting a bank account or credit 
elsewhere. She told Barclays that the money paid in was the repayment of a loan a friend 
owed her but that she didnt recognise the name of the person paying the money. She was 
going abroad to deal with a number of issues and took the money out in cash to change into 
foreign currency. She told it she had been trying to deal with her complaint for some time 
and hadnt been able to get a response. She referred this issue to us in July 2019 and 
Barclays sent her a final response on 3 March 2020. It offered to pay her £150 to reflect the 
time taken to look into things but didnt uphold her complaint.
Our investigator said he could only look at the new issue about the CIFAS marker. He didnt 
recommend that her complaint about it be upheld. Miss Y hadnt been able to provide any 
evidence to support what she said about the loan she had given to a friend or what it was 
for. She had said that her friend had arranged for someone else to pay her back as the 
friend wasnt local to her. But there was nothing to support that and no evidence of 
transactions on her account to show her lending this amount of money. He thought it 
unusual that shed decided to buy foreign currency in cash as she could have made a 
payment by card. And when Barclays had removed over £1,400 of the money, he couldnt 
understand why shed not pursued that any further. He said that adding a CIFAS marker was 
a serious matter. But that Barclays had sufficient evidence to show the money received 
wasnt rightfully for Miss Y and that shed not given any explanation about this at the time.
Miss Y didnt agree. She said that it had taken so long to look into her complaint and this 
fraud marker still remained. She was unhappy to be thought guilty given the lack of 
evidence. In 2016 she had over £9,000 in a savings account. It wasnt wrong to carry cash 
and she believed she could get a better rate of exchange if she paid that way. Miss Y added 
that her spending on the account was before her trip abroad. And just because she cant 
provide evidence about the money doesnt mean she is lying. She said she did challenge 
Barclays about this. She had to have her salary paid into her Mums account for some time 
which was inconvenient, and she cant get any credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration of Miss Y about the time this marker has been in place and the 
impact she believes it has had on her. Im going to be reviewing all the evidence about that 
and considering whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
There was a significant amount of money involved here and it was sent in three payments - 
one of £800 and two of £1,400. On the bank statement a persons name was given in the 
narrative and the reference was Furniture for each payment. It seems to me that Miss Y 
was expecting the money that day because at 10:50 that morning she withdrew £2,000 from 
an ASD machine in a Barclays branch. She transferred £1,080 to a savings account. And 
she spent money on goods. Her account balance on the night before had been just under 
£200.
I can see from the case notes made by Barclays and her communications with this service 
that she is frustrated to be asked about the source of the money over and over. But Im 
afraid that this is the crux of things here. Barclays received a report that this money had 
been fraudulently obtained. Miss Ys position is that the money is rightfully hers and she has 
lost over £1,400 of this. So, I would reasonably expect her to do everything she could to 
demonstrate this money is hers. And to help explain why someone she says was freely 
sending the money to her would quickly report this as fraud. I appreciate it might be more 
difficult to get evidence of this now. But that issue was apparent to her at the time and by 
July 2017 at least when she returned from her trip abroad. And although she might have had 
difficulty getting Barclays to help her, shes not shown she then had any evidence to provide 
it with to support her case. And its clear as I set out above that it was considering a 
complaint from her in November 2017. So, Im struggling to accept that she wasnt able to 
pursue the issue with this money any further.
The position unfortunately is that I have nothing else to support Miss Ys account of what 
happened. I accept she had over £9,000 in her ISA until November 2016 when she withdrew 
most of this in cash. But shes not been able to put together a credible explanation of her say 
lending part of this to a friend, her attempts to get that money back and why it would be paid 
by someone she had no connection with and then reported as fraudulent. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im considering what is most likely. And on 
balance Im not persuaded that this money wasnt fraudulently obtained, and that Miss Y 
didnt reasonably know that it wasnt genuinely hers.Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss Y received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Ys account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss Y received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of part of the funds and so was in control of who had 
the benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Miss Y had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had
So, Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Barclays to remove this CIFAS marker. I know 
Miss Y will be very disappointed by this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman