DRN-2712889
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum 
packaged bank account, which was sold to him in May 2001.
Mr O says that he was told that due his level of income, he could have a prestigious account. 
Mr O has also said that he was not told about the monthly fee and that he was led to believe 
the account would improve his credit score to help him get loans/mortgages.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Platinum 
account had been mis-sold. 
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might also help to explain that 
where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available. 
And having taken everything into account, I dont think that the Platinum was mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mr O says that he was led to believe, because of his salary, that he was entitled to a prestige 
Platinum bank account. And looking at the terms of the account at the time, there was a 
requirement to earn at least £35,000 before tax to be eligible for the account. Therefore, it 
appears that what he was told was correct  that is, because he earned more than a certain 
amount he was eligible to take out the Platinum account and in turn benefit from the various 
features it offered. And as Mr O had held a fee-free account for many years before he 
agreed to the Platinum account, I think he agreed to it knowing it was optional and that he 
didnt have to have it if he didnt want it.
Mr O has said that he was not told that he would have to pay for the account. I cant be sure 
what Mr O was told during the sale. So I accept its possible the cost of the account might not 
have been made clear during the sale. However, Mr O says he discovered he was paying a 
monthly fee for the account around six to twelve months later  and went on to keep the 
account. So even if I were to say that the cost had not been made clear to Mr O during the 
sale, had it been, I think its likely that he wouldve still agreed to the account.
Mr O has said that he was told the account would improve his credit score and help him 
obtain loans and mortgages. Again I cant be sure what exactly was said during the sale. But 
I understand that a benefit of having the account meant that Mr O was able to get lower 
rates of interest on personal loans, and he was able to get a special deal on mortgages 
through Lloyds dedicated mortgage lending company. Lloyds has also provided evidence to 
show that Mr O applied for a personal loan (described in Lloyds records as a Lloyds Bank 
Platinum Loan) to purchase a car around the same time that Mr O took out the Platinum 
account.
As such, when weighing everything up, I think its more likley that Mr O agreed to the 
Platinum account as he was told about the lower rates of interest he could obtain on loans 
and mortgages by taking it out  rather than because he was told itd improve his credit 
score. Afterall, if Mr O took out the Platinum account purely on the basis that he thought itd 
help improve his credit score, I think its likely he wouldve downgraded it back to a fee-free 
account much sooner than 2019.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr O. This means it had to make sure the account was 
a good fit for Mr Os circumstances at the time.
In 2001, the Platinum account cost £12 per month. And in return for the monthly fee it 
provided worldwide travel insurance, which included the choice of either family cover or 
winter sports cover. It also provided breakdown cover and other benefits such as card 
protection, accidental death cover and extended warranty cover. It also provided banking 
benefits such as an interest free overdraft of up to £250 - with lower rates of interest on 
balances overdrawn by more than this amount (up to the agreed limit). It also provided lower 
rates of interest on loans alongside other discounts such as money off purchasing a car, 
discounts on home insurance etc.
At the time, I understand Mr O had (or was purchasing) a car. So he couldve made use of 
the breakdown cover. And I understand that Mr O occasionally travelled, which included 
winter sports  so again I think he wouldve been able to make use of the travel insurance 
that came with the account. And as Mr O took out a loan at the same time, I think he also 
couldve benefited from receiving a lower rate of interest too. 
I understand Mr O may not have needed all of the benefits that came with the account. But 
the account was sold as a package, so Mr O was unable to pick and choose what it came 
with. Therefore, just because Mr O didnt need all of the benefits doesnt mean that it was 
mis-sold. 
So overall, I dont think Lloyds recommendation that he upgrade to the Platinum account 
was unreasonable, given Mr Os circumstances at the time.
As well as making sure it was right for Mr O, Lloyds also had to give Mr O important 
information about the account. Based on what Ive seen, its seems that Mr O was made of 
some of the benefits it provided  namely the banking benefits. And although its possible 
that Lloyds didnt give Mr O all of the information about the account that it shouldve, Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been 
given even more information about the account during the sale.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr O may now regret agreeing to the 
account and feels its been poor value for money due to how long he held the account for. 
But that does not mean that Lloyds did anything wrong by selling him the account when it 
did. And from everything Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that the Platinum account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Mr Os Platinum account was mis-sold. I 
therefore do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman