DRN-3661902
The complaint
Mr N says Oplo PL Ltds settlement calculation for his loan is incorrect and it owes him 
£2,688.03. 
What happened
Mr N took out a £15,000 fixed sum loan with a 72-month term in February 2020. If the loan 
ran to term, the interest payable was £13,284.48. The interest rate was 14.76% and the APR 
was 25.96%. The monthly repayment was £392.84. 
In November 2021 Mr N requested a settlement figure. It was £12,994.63. He paid this in full 
but disputed it, as well as discrepancies in his annual statements. 
Oplo said its calculation was correct and in line with regulatory requirements and the terms 
of the account. The annual statements were accurate too, although Mr Ns payments were 
not all listed in date order they had been applied to his account immediately on receipt.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. He explained the lower settlement value 
Mr N had calculated was based on a regular amortising loan. But this was a fixed sum loan 
and therefore the monthly repayments reduced the interest and capital owing in a different 
mix, and this impacted the early settlement figure. He concluded Oplo had not made an 
error.
Unhappy with this assessment, Mr N asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he 
said we have sided with Oplo and ignored the anomalies he has raised. He said the 
agreement clearly states:
1. Interest rate is charge for the term of the loan at the fixed flat rate of 14.76% per annum.
2. The APR is calculated on the assumption that you borrow... and repay over 72 monthly
repayments.
And he went on to say So unless my understanding of English is incorrect the interest for 
the loan is 14.76% and that APR is applied on/when the condition of repaying over 72 
months is satisfied.
The underlining is Mr Ns emphasis. He says contracts have to be clear and jargon-free to 
allow informed decisions. He accepted the loan on the basis the interest rate was a fixed flat 
rate of 14.76% per annum. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I will explain why but first I want to 
address his comment that the investigator sided with Oplo. As an independent and impartial
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to
find in favour of one party over the other.
I have reviewed the settlement statement Oplo provided to Mr N, as it is required to. This 
explains the value was calculated in line with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. The terms of Mr Ns loan agreement make clear it will reply on this agreed 
method if he opts to exercise his right to early settle. And I have seen no evidence it has not 
done this. As Oplo has already explained to Mr N the calculation uses the APR (so 25.96% 
in this case) as set out in his agreement. I note in the calculation he supplied he had used  
the lower value of the interest rate (14.76% in this case). But as we are not an audit service 
its not for this service to calculate the early settlement figure or to check Oplos automated 
calculations. 
Mr N also says he checked the figure using online calculators and the result was lower. But 
the result will differ based on the type of loan and its terms, the structure of the fees and 
charges, and how the interest and capital are paid down. Its important to understand that on 
fixed sum loans such as this one, each instalment of £392.84 included some interest (of the 
£13,284.48), and some capital repayment (of the £15,000). But the way in which the 
payments are made up  the early repayments comprise mostly interest, and little capital  
whereas towards the end of the loan, the later instalments include less interest and more 
capital repayment. So  when a loan is settled early, but towards the end of the loan  the 
interest rebate is less than if the loan was settled near its start. So  the earlier the loan is 
settled, the higher the rebate of interest will be. The amount of the early settlement figure 
depends on how much interest is refunded. 
Oplo also explained to Mr N there was a difference when it manually calculated the value 
versus the system generated calculation. The latter was slightly lower and what he repaid. It 
also confirmed that though out of order on the annual statements at times, each payment 
received was applied to his account straight away.
Overall, I have not found any evidence that Oplo has done anything that is misaligned to the 
contract terms as Mr N suggests  or to its broader obligations. It follows I am not asking it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman