DRN-4096055
The complaint
Miss P complains that Lendable Ltd trading as Zable lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss Ps complaint is about a credit card supplied by Lendable.
The account was opened in October 2021 with a credit limit of £200. The credit limit was 
increased to £500 in January 2022.
Miss P complains that Lendable lent irresponsibly to her.
Lendable didnt uphold the complaint. So Miss P brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lendable had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before opening the account and before approving the 
credit limit increase. The investigator didnt think that Lendable had acted unfairly when 
approving the application and the credit limit increase.
Miss P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set out 
on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ps complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss P could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ps income and expenditure and credit history.
Account opening and credit limijt increase
Lendable reviewed the information that Miss P provided on her application. Miss P stated 
that she had a net monthly income of £2,005. Lendable verified this using an industry 
standard income verification tool and verified Miss Ps income at £1,983.
Lendable also carried out credit checks. These showed no recent adverse information. 
There were four defaulted accounts, all of which were over 12 months old. The credit checks 
showed that Miss P had seven active accounts. None of these had any arrears.
Lendable carried out the same checks before the credit limit increase was approved.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lendable carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before opening and before approving the credit limit increase.
Ive gone on to consider whether Lendable acted fairly when it lent to Miss P, taking into 
account the information gathered from the checks.
Ive reviewed the information. Theres nothing to suggest that the lending was likely to be 
unaffordable for Miss P. I say this because theres no evidence that Miss P was in financial 
difficulty at the time she applied for the credit card or at the time when the credit limit was 
increased. Her existing consumer credit commitments were being met with no arrears. The 
defaulted accounts were more than 12 months old. The affordability checks carried out by 
Lendable showed that Miss P had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Lendable acted unfairly when it opened the 
credit card account and when it approved the credit limit increase.
Ive thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way. Miss P has said that 
she struggled with repayments as soon as she took out the card. I can see that Miss P made 
the minimum payment every month until March 2022 when the account fell into arrears. Im 
sorry to hear that Miss Ps financial circumstances have changed. However, theres nothing 
to suggest that Miss P was struggling financially when the account was opened or when the 
credit limit was increased.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman