DRN-3698489
The complaint
A, an unincorporated business, complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly blocked its 
account leading to payments not being made and inconvenience and distress.
What happened
A has two mandate holders on its account. It is unhappy that the full details for one of them 
had been lost by Santander. And that as a result its account had been blocked without any 
notice
Santander dealt with complaints from each mandate holder separately. It said that the 
problem had been caused by a data migration issue. The profile for one had been split and 
a card issued to this person had been wrongly assigned to the business profile. This had 
now been corrected. It wasnt able to provide a copy of a letter that it said would have been 
sent about this on 13 December 2021. It hadnt had the information about one mandate 
holder it needed to know its customer and so the account had been blocked. It recognised 
the inconvenience for trading and the distress caused and paid £500 plus a £30 late 
payment fee to one. It accepted that it had firstly told the other that no error had been made 
in blocking the account. And so, it paid a further £500 to reflect the impact.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander do anything more. She said that the 
relevant complainant here was A and wed be considering one complaint. This has been a 
banking error and Santander hadnt sent the letter about the block to A as it didnt have the 
details of the individual involved. She said it was unclear why it hadnt contacted A in any 
other way. But that A could reasonably have monitored the account, and this might have 
identified the issue sooner. She said we dont punish financial businesses and the payment 
already made was more than wed have awarded. There was no evidence to support there 
being any outstanding financial loss.
A didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It considered that the way 
Santander had looked into things was off hand and that there hadnt been sufficient 
compensation. It wanted a letter to the other mandate holder in the same format and in the 
eventuality that there might be an impact on his credit rating. If it was thought that Santander 
should have contacted A then this should impact on the final outcome and it could have used 
the business email address or sent a letter to the business address. A had been monitoring 
the account and there was no notification that the account had been blocked. The only way it 
knew was when a payment was declined and if it had been notified of this. A didnt consider 
it had sufficient time to comment on what had happened and wanted things further 
investigated by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider A has now had a reasonable opportunity to provide any evidence and 
submissions about what happened. I agree that the complaint should be considered for the 
business, as thats the complainant here and I will be taking into account what Santander 
has said in relation to both the mandate holders. And what is fair overall.  I note that it had 
issued a further final response to the second individual on 9 February 2022 setting out the 
reasons for paying the further £500 and accepting that this arose out of an error.
While I know A wants a more detailed explanation of how things went wrong thats not 
something that is necessary to assess the complaint. Thats because it is accepted that in 
error Santander didnt retain the details for one account holder due to a systems issue. And 
so, it didnt have a basis to block the account as this arose from the error. There is no 
evidence A was told about this missing information and given a chance to rectify this before 
the account was blocked.
The block happened on 13 December 2021. A refers to bill payments set up to pay credit 
card bills not being paid on 20 December 2021. And it becoming aware of that on 12 
January 2022. It phoned Santander that day and the block was temporarily removed and a 
direct debit payment also still possible that day. And the information was provided, and the 
block permanently removed. Having looked at the record of transactions on the account I 
can see that credit card payments had been made in the months before and after December 
by faster payment. And it seems those due made on 12 January 2022 when the account was 
unblocked. One mandate holder claimed a fee for a late payment. I have no information 
about any other financial loss or impact. And I can only look at what has happened based on 
evidence and not what might happen.
Frankly I dont think that the way Santander has approached the complaint has been to As 
disadvantage in terms of compensation. And thats because the total amount already paid is 
considerably more that I might otherwise have awarded. Whats been paid is to reflect the 
inconvenience to A and the element of distress to the officials of A involved and any financial 
loss. What Im thinking about is the actual impact of what happened. And having taken into 
account our published guidelines about compensation I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman