DRN-4071508
The complaint
Miss C Complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) reported incorrect information on her 
credit file. 
What happened
In November 2020 Miss C contacted Next for support with her catalogue shopping payments
when she was impacted financially by the covid pandemic.
Next approved an emergency support plan (ESP) whereby Miss C was required to pay £1
per month for three months. On 3 December 2020 Miss C made a payment for £30. But,
because her monthly statement wasnt produced until midnight on 3 December, Next applied
the payment to the previous months statement period. As a further payment wasnt made in
December, Next treated Miss Cs ESP as having been broken and arrears were reported on
her credit file.
Miss C says she complained to Next in March 2021 when she found out that it had reported
her account as being three months in arrears. But Next said the information recorded was
accurate and there was nothing it could do. Miss C didnt agree saying that the credit
reporting had impacted the amount she had been able to borrow for a house purchase and
the mortgage interest rates available to her.
Next later acknowledged that  due to a system error, it had incorrectly recorded that
Miss Cs account as three months in arrears. But it said it should have shown as two months
in arrears. It said it would amend Miss Cs credit file and, ultimately, it offered Miss C £550
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. But it said that two months
arrears accurately reflected what had happened as Miss C had not made the required
payments to her account in November and December 2020, and it declined to make any
further amendments to Miss Cs credit file.
Miss C didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators
looked into it the matter. She said that technically Next hadnt made an error in treating
Miss Cs ESP as having been broken  the payment Miss C had made wasnt made within
the required statement period. But she didnt think Miss C wouldve known that her
statement would be produced at midnight, and she was persuaded that Miss C had made
the payment on the 3 December 2020 to meet the requirements of the ESP. So, she thought
that Next should amend Miss Cs credit file to reflect that only the November 2020 payment
had been missed.
She acknowledged that in reporting three months arrears Miss C had been caused distress
and inconvenience. But she thought Nexts offer of £550 compensation was fair. She said
she hadnt seen any evidence that a lender had declined a mortgage application for Miss C
and so, she was unable to quantify if reporting three months in arrears rather than one
months arrears would have made a difference.
Next agreed to the investigators recommendation. But Miss C didnt. She said that she had
made a payment in November 2020 as requested by Next. The investigator considered this
but noted that Miss Cs November statement required a minimum payment of £56 and that
Miss C had paid £10. So, she didnt think what Miss C said altered the outcome she had
reached.
Miss C still disagreed saying  in summary, shed made payments in line with the email
communication she had received from Next. And that the financial impact of Nexts error had
not be fully considered. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
By way of a provisional decision dated 10 March 2023, I set out the reasons why I intended 
to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
What I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information available, Im intending to reach the same overall outcome as our 
investigator. I acknowledge that Miss C will be disappointed as the adverse information on 
her credit file has impacted her ability to obtain a mortgage on more favourable terms. But to 
uphold her complaint, Id have to be satisfied that Nexts error was the sole reason Miss C 
wasnt able to obtain a more favourable mortgage. And I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that Miss C was offered an ESP for three months in November 2020. 
Next says that the ESP started after the next statement  due on 3 December 2020. And 
that Miss C was still required to make her contractual payment for November 2020. But   
Miss C says she was told - in an email dated 7 November 2020, to make a payment 
immediately to start the plan.
So, Ive reviewed the emails Next sent to Miss C following the ESP being agreed. Having 
done so, I accept the email of 7 November 2020 wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
I dont agree that it said that Miss C could pay any amount to start the plan as she has 
suggested.
In any event, the email which followed dated 10 November 2020 says: The Plan will start 
from your next statement. Statements will be sent on the 3rd of each month. It also says: If 
you do not pay the minimum payment shown on your most recent statement, this will show 
on your statement as arrears.
I consider this email to be clear. And Im satisfied that Miss Cs plan started from                           
3 December 2020  the date of her next statement. And that she was required to make the 
minimum payment due as set out in her most recent statement. So, even though the email of 
7 November 2020 wasnt as clear as it should have been, Im satisfied that by                               
10 November 2020, Next had provided enough clear information as to what Miss C needed 
to pay in November 2020  before the ESP started.
Ive looked at Miss Cs statement from November 2020  the most recent statement when 
this email was sent. This says a minimum payment of £56 was required by 26 November. 
However, Miss C only made a £10 payment on 16 November 2020. So, Im satisfied that 
before the ESP was due to start Miss Cs account was already one month in arrears. So, Im 
satisfied that Next didnt treat Miss C unfairly when it recorded this on Miss Cs credit file.
Miss Cs ESP plan set out that she needed to pay £1 for three months. But Next said she 
should try to pay more if she could. In December 2020 Miss C was able to pay £30 and she 
did so on 3 December 2020 as this was the date of her next statement. I accept what Next 
has said about Miss Cs statement not being produced until midnight on 3 December, so 
technically Miss C had paid too soon. But, like the investigator, Im not persuaded that                
Miss C wouldve known that her statement wasnt produced until midnight. And Im also 
persuaded that she was making this payment in line with the ESP that had been agreed.Next has previously accepted that it recorded three months arrears on Miss Cs credit file in 
error. It said it would amend Miss Cs credit file to reflect two months arrears prior to the 
complaint being referred to this service. But like the investigator, and for the reasons given 
above, I think its fair that Miss Cs credit file is amended to reflect that her account was in 
arrears for one month due to the minimum payment required not being paid in                 
November 2020.
Ive gone on to think carefully about the impact the additional missed payments (recorded in 
December 2020 and January 2021) had on Miss Cs mortgage applications. Miss C has 
provided emails from her mortgage broker which indicate that they didnt approach a high 
street lender because of the adverse data on Miss Cs credit file. While this is evidence, it is 
from the broker, not the lender  the decision maker. I havent seen that a high street lender 
was provided with the context for the late payments, or something compelling from the 
lender to say it was the late payments  and only the late payments recorded between 
November 2020 and January 2021 which led to a decision to decline an application.
The investigator said this meant she couldnt quantify if reporting three months arrears rather 
than one months arrears would have made a difference. But having reviewed the credit file 
report Miss C has sent us, these were not the only missed payments recorded on her credit
file. I can see that two other payments were missed earlier in 2020 and there were other 
missed payments in the years previous to that. Miss C hasnt said that Next recorded these 
missed payments incorrectly. So, I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of this credit file 
information.
And, when looking at Miss Cs credit file as a whole, I cant safely say that a high street 
mortgage lender  or any lender offering better terms than she received, would have 
approved a mortgage application for Miss C even if Next had not reported the account as 
three months in arrears in late 2020/early 2021. I think its most likely that some lenders 
particularly those offering more favourable terms, would not have looked favourably on the 
number of missed payments reported on Miss Cs credit file over the previous few years 
when assessing a mortgage application. So, it follows I cant safely conclude that Next has 
caused the losses Miss C says she incurred.
Overall, while I sympathise with Miss C  I must approach this matter objectively. And having
done so, I dont find I can fairly and reasonably recommend that Next compensate her in the
way shes asked.
Next has offered Miss C £550 compensation for not reporting the status of her account with
the Credit Reference Agencies correctly, and it has agreed to amend her credit file to reflect
the one missed payment in November 2020 rather than three months arrears. Given my
findings above, I think this is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. As I havent been provided with any 
further information or evidence to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion 
reached in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold this complaint. Next Retail limited should 
now:
Amend Miss Cs credit file to show only one missed payment in November 2020 - 
any missed payments recorded in December 2020 and January 2021 should be
removed.
Pay Miss C £550 (as previously offered) in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience caused (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman