DRN-2900621
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent him two loans he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Bamboo lent Mr M £3000 on 4 September 2018. He repaid this on 29 November 2018. He 
then went on and asked for a second loan with Bamboo. This time Mr M asked for £5000 on 
26 June 2019. This loan has also been repaid. These facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision about these loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Bamboo did not make a fair lending decision on either occasion 
that it lent to Mr M. I agree with the investigators findings for these reasons:
oBamboo says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to loan 1 and 2. It 
says it asked him about his income and accommodation costs. It says it carried out 
an online verification check of Mr Ms income. In addition, it carried out a credit 
check. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate his living 
costs. It used the information it gathered to assess the affordability of each loan for 
Mr M.
oLoan 1 was due to be repaid over 2 years at £207.29 a month. Loan 2 was due to be 
repaid over 3 years at £243.48 a month. When I look at Bamboo calculations on both 
occasions, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr M would 
have enough disposable income to afford both of the loan repayments proposed. But 
like the investigator, on balance I dont think Bamboo made fair lending decisions 
with what it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the credit search results on both occasions, I 
can see that Mr M was already committed to quite a high proportion of credit 
repayment in relation to the income figure Bamboo was using in its assessment. This 
being the figure it had verified using an online verification tool in 2018 for loan 1 and 
in 2019 for loan 2.
oBamboo would have been aware that Mr M had taken over £20,000 in unsecured 
credit through loans and credit cards at the time he applied for loan 1 with it. Bamboo 
had calculated that Mr M would need to pay a monthly amount of £2510 in servicing 
this debt. And Mr Ms situation did not improve when he applied for loan 2. His 
unsecured debt pile had increased to around £34,000 in only 8 months since loan 1 
had been repaid. Bamboo had calculated that he was due to pay around £1700 a 
month servicing debt. In both instances, Mr Ms monthly debt repayment represented 
a large and significant part of his monthly income.  
oMr M was paying a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit repayments 
at the time he applied for loans 1 and 2. I think Bamboo ought to have realised it was 
unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay his loans over the terms agreed . 
And, in these circumstances, Bamboo should reasonably have concluded that it was 
not fair to lend to Mr M.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Bamboo now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded Bamboo shouldnt 
have provided the loans, so it should look to remove the interest and fees from the principal 
amount. 
Bamboo should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Mr M 
has made as payments towards the capital for each of these loans.
If reworking Mr Ms loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1-
2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Bamboo Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman