DRN-3472378
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society arent reporting the current account that he 
holds with them to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr R has a Nationwide current account that hes held for many years. Recently, Mr R 
discovered that Nationwide werent reporting the ongoing status of his current account to the 
credit reference agencies, which means that his current account doesnt appear on his credit 
file. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Rs complaint. They explained that for current accounts that had 
been opened before 2001, as Mr Rs current account was, there had been no requirements 
to make ongoing reports to the credit reference agencies for those accounts. Nationwide 
also confirmed that system limitations meant they would be unable to start reporting Mr Rs 
current account to the credit reference agencies, even though Mr R wanted them to do so.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Nationwides 
explanation of why Mr Rs current account wasnt reported to the credit reference agencies 
was reasonable, and so they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how Mr R might want his current account to be reported to his credit file by 
Nationwide. But Nationwides explanation as to why this isnt the case  essentially because 
of the age of the current account  seems reasonable to me. And I note that theres no 
obligation for Nationwide to report current accounts that were opened prior to 2001 to the 
credit reference agencies.
Nationwide have also confirmed that system limitations mean that they wont be able to start 
reporting Mr Rs current account to the credit reference agencies as Mr R would like. This 
also seems reasonable to me, and while Im aware that Mr R would like Nationwide to 
update their systems to accommodate his request, I dont think its reasonable for Mr R to 
expect Nationwide to undertake such a task, especially given that an alternative and more 
readily available solution  that Mr R opens a new current account which would be reported 
to the credit reference agencies  has already been suggested to Mr R by Nationwide.
I note that Mr R feels that because Nationwide are unable to provide a copy of the original 
terms and conditions that applied to the opening of the account  which unfortunately 
havent been retained by Nationwide because of the length of time elapsed  that more 
recent terms and conditions, which would include that Nationwide would make reports to the 
credit reference agencies, should apply.
I find it difficult to reach the same conclusion as Mr R here, and it seems counterintuitive to 
me to apply the more recent terms and conditions to Mr Rs current account, given that its 
known that aspects of those more recent terms  such as the requirement to make reports to 
the credit reference agencies  dont apply to Mr Rs account, and also given that 
Nationwide have confirmed that they arent able to make reports to the credit reference 
agencies regarding Mr Rs account because of the limitations of their systems.
Im also aware that Mr R feels that the fact that his account isnt reported to the credit 
reference agencies means that he has limited account functionality, including that some 
direct debits cant be set up on the account. However, Im not aware of any reason why the 
fact that a current account isnt reported to the credit reference agencies should limit account 
functionality in the way which Mr R suggests, and Nationwide have confirmed that theres no 
reason why this should affect any direct debits that Mr R would like to set up.
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly here. I say this 
because the age of Mr Rs account means that Nationwide werent required to make reports 
to the credit reference agencies as Mr R would like, and also dont have the facility to make 
reports to the credit reference agencies in regard to Mr Rs current account moving forwards. 
Additionally, Nationwide have proposed what I feel is a fair and reasonable solution  that Mr 
R open a new current account that will be reported to the credit reference agencies and 
close his non-reportable account.
It follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to 
take any further action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr R was hoping 
for, but I trust that hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman