DRN-3474095
The complaint
Mr L and Miss T complain about the hourly rate Fairmead Insurance Limited is willing to pay
for solicitors Miss T engaged to act for her in an employment dispute. Miss T has claimed
under a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead.
Fairmead has an administrator who handles claims but as that agent does so for and on
behalf of Fairmead, Ill simply refer to Fairmead throughout.
What happened
Ive previously issued two (2) provisional decisions explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint, which for ease and context copy below:
Miss T was involved in employment tribunal proceedings against her employer and made a 
claim for legal expenses to be covered. Fairmead said it would only pay a maximum rate of 
£217 per hour yet Miss Ts solicitors rate is around £375. Miss T asserts that Fairmeads 
stance on hourly rate challenges her freedom regarding her choice of solicitor. And she 
believes Fairmead is being unfair for several reasons including:
- trying to entice her away from her instructed solicitor.
- stating she should have selected a local solicitor to act for her.
- saying her case isnt complicated.
Fairmeads position is that it sent its standard terms of appointment in a Working Together 
document to Miss Ts chosen solicitors which included its standard hourly rate of £100 plus 
VAT. The solicitors though asked for £375 plus VAT and so Fairmead offered National 1 
County Court rate for Miss Ts locality (£217 plus VAT). As Miss Ts solicitors wouldnt agree 
to that rate Fairmead contacted Miss T offering to appoint one of its panel solicitors who 
would accept the £217 rate. No agreement could be reached and Fairmead reiterated to 
Miss T that she could use a panel solicitor at no cost to her or be responsible for topping up 
the hourly rate her solicitor wanted over the £217 if she continued. Miss Ts solicitor insisted 
that she would only act if paid an hourly rate of £375.
Fairmead relies on Wraith v Sheffield Forgemasters Ltd [1998] as legal authority that Miss T 
should use a local solicitor and there was nothing in the factual matrix of the claim that 
caused it to fall outside the Wraith case. And given the quantum of the case, overall, 
National 1 rates for the appropriate grade fee earner were offered. Both Miss T and her 
employer were in a particular locality and the instruction of a city law firm wasnt, in effect, a 
necessity. Miss Ts solicitor disagreed and is clearly unhappy generally with the way legal 
expenses policies and hourly rates are administered by insurers.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had acted unfairly and explained:
oThe grade A rate of £217 per hour for National 1 locations was fair as both 
Miss T and her employer were based in that area, and she wasnt persuaded 
only London based lawyers would be able to deal with the claim.
oFairmead can limit costs provided it doesnt render freedom of choice 
meaningless. 
oThe policy terms state if Miss T decides not to use Fairmeads preferred law 
firm shell be responsible for any costs outside the standard terms of 
appointment.
oShe didnt think Fairmead was unfairly trying to entice Miss T away from her 
chosen solicitor. Rather, she said, Fairmead explained Miss T could still use a 
panel firm to represent her at no cost.
Miss Ts solicitor disagreed and in summary said:
oThe employment claim involving six respondents was complex.
oIts wrong to say that Miss T should have selected a local solicitor, and theres 
nothing in the policy to support this. 
oOn the hourly rate, the correct question is whether Miss T can find a suitably 
qualified and experienced solicitor in her location who will accept an hourly 
rate of £217 to do her employment claim?
oMiss T has done some research in her local area and three law firms have 
said theyd act at an hourly rate ranging between £225 to £545. 
oFairmead must not pay an hourly rate that makes it difficult for Miss T to 
instruct her own solicitor and breaches Regulation 6 of The Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990. The rate of £217 
rendered Miss Ts freedom of choice meaningless.
oIt was wrong and inappropriate for Fairmead to send the emails it did to Miss 
T who had begun tribunal proceedings (attempting to entice Miss T away from 
her solicitor).
Miss Ts employment claim settled in or around February 2022.
I explained that I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint giving the following reasons:
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into 
account relevant:
- law and regulations.
- regulators rules guidance and standards.
- codes of practice; and
- (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
The parties have referred specifically to cases and regulations, and I have considered these 
in reaching my determination:
Wraith v Sheffield Forgemasters Ltd [1998]Regulation 6 of The Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 
1990
Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor [2012]
Fairmead first set out its standard terms of appointment in May 2021, which included its 
standard hourly rate of £100 plus VAT. Miss Ts solicitor refused to act at such a rate and 
despite Fairmeads attempts to negotiate an hourly rate, deadlock was reached at the final 
offer of £217 around mid-July 2021.
The insurance policy
Miss Ts policy covers legal action directly arising from Miss Ts contract of employment. And 
the policy definition of costs includes all reasonable and necessary costs charged by the 
professional adviser on a standard basis or in accordance with the Predictable Costs 
scheme if this is appropriate. This isnt without limits or restrictions and the policy sets out 
General Exceptions and General Conditions. The issue of costs is addressed within these 
and of relevance to this complaint include:
Costs that are more than the administrator has agreed are not covered.
Fairmead will set spending limits for Miss Ts professional advisers fees and 
charges during the claim.
If Miss T decides not to use the services of a professional adviser chosen by the 
administrator, Fairmead will not pay more than the amount it would have paid to a 
professional adviser chosen by the administrator.
Theres also a Working Together document setting out Fairmeads standard terms of 
appointment that was sent to Miss Ts solicitor. In brief, it sets out that Farimeads liability for 
the solicitors costs and expenses is subject to and conditional upon the solicitors 
compliance with the terms of the Working Together document and the insurance policy. For 
claims in the Employment Tribunal, the hourly rate Fairmead agrees to be liable for is £100 
per hour plus VAT.
Freedom of choice
Theres no issue in dispute that Miss T had the right to choose her solicitor once legal 
proceedings became necessary. The issue is whether Fairmead rendered Miss Ts freedom 
meaningless in the fees it was willing to pay. From Miss Ts solicitors correspondence, its 
clear she has some experience in acting for clients where there is a legal expenses policy in 
place. Neither the insurance policy nor the Working Together document entitle Miss T to 
unlimited costs and the standard terms of £100 per hour were unlikely to be a surprise.
I am satisfied that Fairmead clearly set out to Miss T (and her solicitor) what it was offering in 
terms of indemnity under the policy. Fairmead clearly explained the hourly rate it was willing 
to offer, and which ultimately it raised to double the rate in its Working Together document. 
Fairmead also explained to Miss T that under the policy it could appoint a panel solicitor to 
represent her at no cost (to her), or she could continue with her own solicitor but shed be 
liable to pay any difference over the £217 plus VAT hourly rate it was willing to pay.
Fairmead has provided information from two panel legal firms that would have conducted 
Miss Ts employment case at the standard rate. Im not persuaded, in these circumstances, 
that Fairmead rendered Miss Ts freedom of choice meaningless.
Reasonable and necessary costsIve thought about the fact that the insurance policy Miss T purchased doesnt specify the 
hourly rate and its only in the Working Together document that this is particularised. Of 
course, this was only made apparent at the point of claim and something that Miss T was 
unaware of until after she made the claim. So, in thinking about whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances Ive considered the issue of reasonable and necessary costs.
As Ive mentioned already, Miss T isnt entitled to unlimited costs and the issue in dispute is 
the hourly rate. Im mindful of Lord Justice Longmores comments in the Brown-Quinn case 
to the effect that insurers can seek to limit the costs for which they are liable to the insured 
provided that the freedom of choice is not rendered meaningless. Miss T asserts the 
National 1 rate for her appointed London-based solicitor is not reasonable and this renders 
her freedom of choice meaningless. I disagree and will explain why.
Both Miss T and her employer are based in the same locality which falls into the National 1 
category, with the highest guideline rate at the relevant time being £217. Fairmead sent the 
solicitor details from its costs draftsman explaining the reasons behind offering National 1 
rates. And while Miss Ts solicitor disagreed highlighting the case was about sexual 
discrimination with six respondents, Ive not seen anything from the parties that persuades 
me a London-based firm was the only place the necessary legal expertise sat for such a 
case. Complexity alone isnt, in my view, determinative but Ive considered the Wraith case 
and the parties representations on same. While relevant law is a consideration, for me the 
overriding aim is to make a determination that, in the ombudsmans opinion, is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Given Miss T and her employer were in a National 1 area, as was the Employment Tribunal 
in which proceedings were apparently issued, theres no clear connection linking the case 
with London. I also factor in that Fairmead gave Miss T clear options for ensuring legal 
expertise at no cost to her in so far as having a panel solicitor act. And indeed, panel 
solicitors would have conducted the case at the standard panel rate. On the face of it the 
National 1 rate, in my opinion, is a reasonable offer in all the circumstances of reasonable 
and necessary costs.
Summary
In all the circumstances of this case:
Im not persuaded Fairmead has treated Miss T unfairly.
Im satisfied Fairmeads offer to pay the National 1 hourly rate is fair, and so not 
persuaded this rendered her freedom of choice meaningless.
Im satisfied Fairmead gave Miss T relevant information about her options under the 
policy such that she could have legal representation at no cost by using a panel 
firm, or understand that she would be liable for a share of her solicitors costs 
should she choose to continue with that solicitor.
Given Fairmead has a duty to provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder 
make a claim and appropriate information on its progress, Im not persuaded the 
information it sent was an attempt to entice Miss T away for her solicitor.
And had Fairmead not explained Miss Ts options, including the fact that it had 
panel solicitors who would act at no cost to her, it may well have fallen foul of its 
duty to provide reasonable guidance.Miss Ts legal representatives reply
The main points raised disagreeing with my provisional decision were set out as follows:
The representative questions whether I have got the correct policy as I have 
considered the complaint against Fairmead and not Legal & General.
My summary of the complaint is wrong as Miss Ts complaint is that the legal 
expenses policy was mis-sold and I havent considered that.
A dispute did arise over the hourly rate as Miss T didnt accept that a fair hourly rate 
was being offered and so not paying reasonable costs under the insurance policy.
The representative says:
Ive failed to consider whether the policy was breached by the administrator refusing 
to pay reasonable costs under the policy.
Ive not referred to the policy wording and so how is it possible to determine 
whether the claim was managed and administered correctly and in accordance with 
the policy terms?
Ive misunderstood the principles in Brown-Quinn with the effect of paragraphs 21, 
22, 24 28 and 29, which the representative submits mean the following:
The insurer cannot refuse to indemnify a claim just because the non-Panel solicitor 
refuses to accept the rate offered by the insurer. To do so would be a serious 
breach of the LEI Regulations.
The terms of the policy must be considered when deciding rates. It must not be 
decided solely by reference to the definition of costs and expenses.
The insured does not have a right to the payment of costs no matter how expensive 
his chosen solicitor is provided that any limitation on costs does not render the 
policy meaningless.
When considering the remuneration offered by the insurance policy it is not enough 
just to look at the guideline rates. The insurer must look at the level of costs and 
expenses payable in respect of the solicitors services.
The representatives concluding (summary) points are as follows:
The offer of an hourly rate of £100 was a serious breach of Regulation 6, the rate is 
what the written terms of insurance state.
Indemnity cant be refused contingent on the hourly rate being agreed.
Miss Ts rights have been infringed by the way the policy has been administered.
The decision to pay national 1 hourly rate is not fair or reasonable and breaches 
Brown-Quinn, relevant Regulations and the EU Directive.
Freedom of choice was rendered meaningless by focussing only on the hourly rate.
The claim has been refused even though there was a successful settlement and the administrator should have assessed the costs at the conclusion of the case and pay 
reasonable costs pursuant to the policy.
Miss T has the right to have the costs assessed at court pursuant to a detailed 
assessment of costs.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Correct respondent issue
In January 2020 Legal & General Insurance Limited was renamed Fairmead Insurance 
Limited and so Fairmead is the correct entity to cite as the respondent insurer.
Complaint summary issue
Having looked again at all the information provided, Miss T clearly set out her complaint 
as follows:
my right to choose my own solicitor has been challenged due to their hourly 
rate and I was being directly contacted to try and entice me away from my 
chosen firm and to instruct a firm of DAS choice.
At no point in Miss Ts or the representatives communications have I seen that Miss T 
has complained the policy was mis-sold. Miss T would need to raise this complaint 
point with the business that sold the policy. And for the avoidance of doubt its clear to 
me that the hourly rate is indeed the issue that Miss T expressed her dissatisfaction 
with.
Having costs assessed
When Miss T brought the complaint to us her employment case was in its relative early 
stages and it was only in February 2022 that the matter reached a settlement. Assessment 
of costs wasnt in play as a complaint point when Miss T complained to Fairmead about the 
hourly rate being offered back in June 2021 and then to us in September 2021. If Miss T 
wants Fairmead to assess costs the policy does cater for that.
General condition 8 sets out what an insured must do on receipt of a settlement offer. And 
general condition 10 deals with the Assessment and recovery of costs. Given the 
settlement occurred just a few weeks ago Miss T (or her representative) will need to liaise 
with Fairmead (or the administrator) on this issue in the first place.
How the policy works
For the avoidance of doubt I have read the policy in full and considered its provisions. That 
said, Im not required to comment on each and every part of the policy. Relevant to Miss Ts 
complaint, she had the right to appoint her own legal representative. However, general 
condition 4 says where Miss T exercises this right Fairmead will not pay more than the 
amount it would have paid to a legal representative chosen by the administrator. This is a 
common feature of legal expenses policies and is typically referred to as panel solicitors and 
panel rates. Miss T didnt agree to using panel solicitors and wanted to remain with her 
choice of legal adviser. And Fairmead took appropriate steps to engage with her chosen 
representative.General condition 5 explains the conduct of the claim and this covers matters such as 
Fairmead will only meet costs of the claim agreed in advance by the administrator and that it 
will set spending limits for the advisers fees and charges.
As Miss Ts chosen legal adviser isnt bound by the insurance contract, the administrator 
sent standard terms of agreement to the legal adviser, a separate contract between the 
adviser and Fairmead and incorporated into the policy. The standard terms set the hourly 
rate at £100 per hour albeit as is common ground, Fairmead offered National 1 grade A rate 
of £217 per hour (exc. VAT) after review by its costs draftsman. As there is no issue taken 
by Fairmead that the claim was covered I wouldnt expect Fairmead to refuse indemnity. And 
it didnt refuse as it was offering £217 and explained this to Miss T and her legal 
representative. Fairmead also reminded Miss T that she could use a panel solicitor at no 
additional cost as an alternative to her having to cover any difference between the rate her 
representative was charging and that which Fairmead was offering to pay.
It's correct that the insurance policy is silent on the hourly rate but that doesnt mean 
Miss T is entitled to any and all costs, rather the policy covers reasonable and necessary 
costs. Relevant to the Brown-Quinn case I make the following observations:
- Fairmead did not refuse to accept the appointment of Miss Ts chosen legal 
adviser rather they reached deadlock on the hourly rate. And Fairmead 
conceded the panel hourly rate offering what it considered to be reasonable 
at £217, which Miss Ts legal adviser refused to accept.
- The standard hourly rate (£100) would be the least Miss T could recover but the 
case recognises that it doesnt mean an insured can choose a solicitor however 
expensive and expect the insurer to pay. The Regulations and Directives are 
silent on charging rates.
- The case is authority for the fact that insurers can seek to limit the costs for 
which they are liable to the insured provided freedom of choice is not rendered 
meaningless. At paragraph 29 of the judgment its apparent a courts approach 
in determining whether remuneration offered by the insurance policy is so 
insufficient as to render freedom of choice meaningless, is that it would have to 
have evidence of such insufficiency.
- As stated in my first provisional decision, Miss T told her legal representative 
(after the investigator sent her opinion) that three law firms in her local area said 
theyd act at an hourly rate ranging between £225 to £545. And Fairmead has 
told us that its panel solicitors would have conducted the case on the standard 
hourly rate. I balance that with the costs draftsman review of the matter before 
we were asked to investigate the complaint offering National 1 grade A rate. Im 
not persuaded by the information Ive been provided, that Fairmeads revised 
offer of £217 per hour (exc. VAT) is so insufficient as to render freedom of 
choice meaningless.
- Its not for me to determine what precise amount should be paid by Fairmead to 
Miss T as reasonable and necessary costs. It seems to me that Fairmead had 
in principle accepted the claim was covered by the policy but the sticking point 
was the hourly rate. Fairmead has offered an hourly rate of £217 and Ive 
explained why I think that offer is fair. But the details of what Fairmead should 
now pay as reasonable and necessary costs is something that needs to take 
place and so general condition 10 of the policy - Assessment and recovery of 
costs  is relevant. Without knowing what those costs are purported to be I cant 
see how Fairmead can pay what is required under the policy terms.Summary
- Im not persuaded Fairmead had refused to indemnify Miss Ts claim 
when she complained to us.
- At the time Miss T complained to us the issue was the hourly rate being offered 
and Im not persuaded evidence of insufficiency has been provided to show, on 
balance, Fairmeads offer rendered Miss Ts freedom of choice meaningless.
- Im not persuaded that Fairmeads offer was based solely by reference to the 
guideline rates. Its clear from the Cost Draftsmans email to Miss Ts legal 
adviser of 3 June 2021 how the decision to offer £217 per hour was reached. 
And the decision involved more than simple reference to the guideline rates.
- Any potential complaint about mis-selling will need to be made to the 
business that sold the policy so doesnt form part of this decision.
- Having costs assessed is something that has only arisen recently because Miss 
T received a settlement in relation to her legal dispute. It seems to me that 
Fairmead needs evidence of the reasonable and necessary costs incurred to 
assess its liability under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ts lawyer has responded objecting to my second provisional decision. Ive considered 
the response in its entirety along with previous replies and summarise the latest objections 
as follows:
- I made no finding on whether the £100 standard rate was fair and reasonable. Only a 
lawyer with cost law experience would be aware the rate is in breach of Brown-
Quinn.
- Theres nothing in the policy terms and conditions that a policyholder can challenge 
the hourly rate.
- I assumed Miss T had the benefit of legal advice and that her instructing solicitor 
should dispute the hourly rate.
- My decision sets a precedent that its okay for a legal expenses insurer to put an 
hourly rate of £100 in contractual documents and this inevitably leads to uncertainty.
- This is a deliberate approach by the legal expenses insurance company to deprive a 
policyholder of the right choose their own lawyer and use a panel lawyer instead.
- Disputes about hourly rates should be dealt with at the end of a case when the 
complexity of the case is known so its unreasonable for the ombudsman to allow a 
legal expense insurer to fix the hourly rate at the start.
- The effect of my decision is to fix hourly rates to a policyholders location.
- The information Fairmead gave Miss T about her options was too little too late and only after she wanted to apply for cover.
-  Fairmead tried to entice Miss T away from her solicitor.
- The policy was mis-sold and my findings were to that effect and I should have stated 
such a finding.
- Fairmead has refused to indemnify the claim and its unreasonable for me to say we 
cant deal with a mis-selling claim and the insurer is involved in the mis-selling. 
Requiring Miss T to start a complaint for this aspect is wholly unreasonable.
Nothing Miss Ts lawyer has said in response has caused me concern about my provisional 
outcome that in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Miss Ts complaint is about the hourly rate Fairmead has offered in her case  that is £217 
plus VAT. So, I dont need to address a general principle on the £100 as thats not whats in 
dispute from Miss T. Her lawyer may have expanded arguments but the core of the 
complaint from Miss T is National 1 grade A rate that Fairmead has actually offered. And for 
the reasons Ive previously given, Im not persuaded that it is so insufficient as to render 
freedom of choice meaningless.
An ombudsmans decision does not have the status of precedent so this decision doesnt 
create one as Miss Ts lawyer suggests. Ombudsmen are required to look at each complaint 
on their own merits and small differences in facts and policy wordings can lead to different 
outcomes. And its not the case that my decision fixes hourly rates to a policyholders 
location. To the contrary, I explained why, in this case, I was satisfied the National 1 grade A 
rate was fair. 
On the basis that we look at individual complaints on their own merits, its not for me in this 
decision to make general findings on the motivation, illicit or otherwise, of legal expenses 
insurance companies.
Among Fairmeads contractual duties is one that it will pay all reasonable and necessary 
costs (defined more fully in the policy). On the basis that Fairmead didnt specify an hourly 
until issuing the Working Document is something Ive already considered in reaching an 
outcome that in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I explained 
why I was persuaded from the evidence that the hourly rate offer of £217 was fair. 
It is not for me to assess costs. This only arose later in the complaint because it became 
apparent that the underlying employment dispute had been settled. Originally the dispute 
was solely fixed on the hourly rate being offered while the employment dispute was ongoing. 
Even if I stipulated an hourly rate Miss T would still need to submit relevant evidence of legal 
costs incurred to Fairmead for consideration under what are reasonable and necessary 
costs. It may become apparent at that point that the case was as complex as Miss Ts lawyer 
makes out. If thats the case, then Fairmead would be expected to take that into account in 
considering what are reasonable and necessary costs.
I wont be considering the mis-sale point the lawyer has raised as that was very much a late 
addition to Miss Ts complaint as Ive explained. Thats not to say the Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant look at it ever, simply that Miss T will need to complain to the financial firm that 
sold the policy first. That firm may or may not have been acting under Fairmeads delegated 
authority I just dont know because thats not the complaint that was originally made to us or 
Fairmead and hasnt been investigated. 
I also remain satisfied that Fairmead exercised its duty to provide reasonable guidance to Miss T when dealing with her claim. Fairmead informed her that she could be held financially 
harmless if she chose to use a panel solicitor. But equally that she could choose her own 
solicitor albeit there could be financial consequences. Id have criticism of Fairmead if it 
hadnt done that. 
I remain satisfied that Fairmed has accepted Miss Ts claim in principle and the sticking point 
remains the hourly rate. For reasons explained Im satisfied the National 1 grade A rate 
offered at the time was fair. To assess reasonable and necessary costs it seems to me that 
Fairmead will need evidence of legal costs incurred from Miss T / her lawyer in order to fairly 
assess what it will offer now the underlying legal dispute has ended. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman