DRN-4324702
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he paid for items he did not 
receive.
What happened
Over the course of around a month, Mr R made three online transfers, for between £120 and 
£275, from his Revolut account to someone posing as a seller online. Over a month after 
making the final transfer Mr R hadnt received the items hed intended to buy and said that 
the seller had ghosted him. So Mr R got in touch with Revolut. 
Revolut advised Mr R to report the loss to Action Fraud. It said it also contacted the 
beneficiary bank to try to freeze and recover the money but, unfortunately, it was 
unsuccessful in doing so. 
Revolut said that it had looked into the transactions but did not think it could be held 
responsible for the loss. It said it had processed the transfer which Mr R requested and a 
fraud prevention warning was in place which asked Mr R if he trusted the seller and wanted 
to proceed. It said Mr R acknowledged this warning and went ahead with the transfer. 
Revolut said the transfers were not out of line with the other transactions from his account 
and, while it had tried to recover the money, its terms and conditions say that recovery of 
money in these circumstances is not guaranteed. For these reasons, Revolut said it would 
not be reimbursing Mr R for his loss. 
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr R brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but did not recommend that it be upheld as he 
did not think there was any reason for Revolut to be concerned or question the payments. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he was defrauded not scammed because 
he had previously bought and received items from this seller. He said he knew the receiving 
account regularly had money in it so Revolut had not done enough to recover the money. He 
asked for evidence to show that Revolut had tried to recover the money through a 
chargeback. 
Our investigator said that Mr R had paid by an online transfer which meant Revolut could not 
carry out a chargeback.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When complaining to us, Mr R said that his loss was clearly an APP scam and when 
reporting the missing items to Revolut he also referred to a scam. However, more recently 
Mr R said he had previously successfully bought items from the seller. Its therefore unclear 
whether Mr R was the victim of a scam, but I dont think that matters to the outcome of my 
decision because, in either circumstance, I do not think Revolut needs to reimburse the 
money.  
If Mr R was the victim of a scam, the starting point under the relevant regulations  the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that Mr R is responsible for payments hes 
authorised himself. But, taking into account the relevant rules and guidance and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Revolut ought, fairly and 
reasonably, to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions that 
might indicate its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Where a firm like Revolut does have grounds to be concerned about a payment, I think it 
should reasonably take steps to warn its customer about the risk of proceeding. Whether a 
warning should be provided (and, if it should, the nature and extent of that warning) should 
be proportionate to the risk the payment presents and strike a balance between trying to 
protect customers and not unduly inconveniencing them. I must also take into account that 
applying significant friction to all payments would be very onerous and would likely be 
impractical for Revolut.
In this particular case, the transfers Mr R made were relatively low value and not particularly 
out of character with other payments hed made. So I dont think the transactions were so 
unusual that Revolut needed to have intervened.
Revolut also said it provided a warning which said, Do you know and trust this payee? If 
youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money back 
Despite this warning, Mr R went ahead with the payment. I think this warning was 
proportionate to the risk presented. 
Revolut has provided evidence to show that once the loss had been reported it contacted the 
beneficiary bank to recover the money. It has also provided evidence from that bank which 
said that the money was removed from the sellers account on the same day of each transfer 
and that there were no funds in the account to recover the money. Mr R believes that the 
seller is still trading and would have money in its account. But, as Revolut let the beneficiary 
bank know that Mr R had disputed the transactions, and provided evidence that there was 
no money in the account, Im satisfied that Revolut acted reasonably in trying to recover     
Mr Rs money and could not have prevented the loss by its actions. 
I understand that Mr R has previously made successful purchases from this seller and he 
therefore believes that Revolut should have carried out a chargeback. However, Mr R made 
this purchase using an online transfer rather than a card payment and it is not possible to 
carry out a chargeback on an online transfer. 
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration that he made payments for items that he did not receive, but 
in this particular case, I do not think Revolut needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman