DRN-3502385
The complaint
Ms G complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms G applied for a credit card with Vanquis in November 2016. She was accepted and given 
a credit limit of £250. Her credit limit was increased in January 2018 to £1,000.
Ms G says that Vanquis shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt take 
account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. She 
says Vanquis didnt check properly that it was affordable for her and that she has struggled 
with debt as a result. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. She didnt think Vanquis had done anything 
wrong in its lending decisions. 
Ms G disagreed. She added that she was using her overdraft to make her repayments on 
other debt.
As Ms G did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Ms Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Vanquis 
acted unfairly and lent to Ms G irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Ms Gs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Vanquis has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Ms Gs account. It says 
these show that it was reasonable to lend to Ms G in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Vanquis saw that Ms G had no County Court Judgements (CCJs) 
or recent defaults. It showed that she had about £2,100 in other unsecured lending at the 
time. Ms G also told Vanquis that she earned around £19,500, which was around £1,400 net 
a month.
 
Based on this a credit limit of £250 appeared affordable and Ms G didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Vanquis completed were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision.
 
In January 2018 Vanquis increased Ms Gs credit limit to £1,000. Vanquis says it completed 
credit checks each month, including when it increased Ms Gs limit. Ms G had managed her 
Vanquis account well and hadnt missed any repayments.
 
Given the proportionately large increase I think that Vanquis should have done more checks 
before providing that additional credit. I think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Vanquis to have confirmed Ms Gs committed expenditure in relation to 
essential expenditure such as housing costs, council tax and utilities. 
I cant be sure what Vanquis would have seen if it had asked about this. However, Ms G 
provided bank statements from around the time of the increase. While Ms G was overdrawn 
in her bank account, once her essential expenditure was taken out she had about £835 in 
disposable income each month.
Ms G says that she was using her overdraft to pay off other credit, and I can see that there 
were payments to other creditors each month. Ms Gs outstanding credit balance across all 
her lending had increased significantly to nearly £10,000, but if Vanquis had checked her 
income and expenditure along with the regular credit checks it did,  I dont think it would 
have seen anything to make it think Ms G could not sustainably afford the repayments on the 
increased credit limit because she appeared to have sufficient disposable income to meet all 
her repayments. 
Ive looked at the way Ms Gs account was managed later in the lending relationship. I can 
see that Ms G eventually defaulted on her credit card account in 2020 and entered into an 
individual voluntary arrangement in May 2021. Im not persuaded that the way Ms G was 
managing her account or what Vanquis could see of her management of other credit ought 
to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
On balance, I dont think Ms G lost out as a result of anything Vanquish did wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint so it follows that Vanquis Bank Limited doesnt need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman