DRN-4138964
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) cancelled his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F took out a home insurance policy with QIC. During the online purchase he was asked if 
there was any major building work being carried out or planned over the next 30 days. He 
replied no  and this was correct at the time.
Mr F then made a claim on his policy. During the claims process Mr F told QIC that he had 
builders at the property as he was carrying out a loft conversion. QIC said that Mr F should 
have told them about the building works under the terms of its policy. It said that had it 
known it wouldnt have offered cover and cancelled Mr Fs policy from the date the works 
started. 
Mr F complained to QIC. He said that he hadnt planned to carry out the loft conversion 
when he took out the policy and didnt know that he had to tell QIC about it. He said he had 
ensured that his builders had appropriate insurance cover. 
QIC didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It referred to its policy and said that there was a 
requirement for Mr F to tell it if there was a change of circumstance and that QIC should 
have been notified before the building work started. It said that had it known, it wouldnt have 
continued cover due to the extent, nature and cost of the building work, and the policy would 
have been cancelled.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think QIC had done 
anything wrong as it acted in line with its terms and conditions and its underwriting criteria.  
Mr F wasnt happy as he said hed been unaware that he had to tell QIC about the building 
work. He thought the cancellation of his policy was disproportionate as it would adversely 
affect his insurance premiums for years and hed like QIC to remove the cancellation. The 
matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that when Mr F took out his policy, he answered the question about 
whether there was any building work being carried out at the property correctly. The building 
work didnt start at Mr Fs property for another ten months. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy to see what it says about a change of 
circumstance. Under the General Conditions it says You must tell us about any changes to 
the answers you gave us when taking out this policy and any changes in your circumstances 
which happen during the period of insurance. It gives examples of changes and one of 
these is If you are having any building work done. You must tell us before the start of any 
building work, conversions, renovations, demolitions and extensions at your property. You 
must tell us about the work at least 30 days before it starts. It also says You must also tell 
us if the building work alters the number of bedrooms or bathrooms. 
QICs policy says that if Mr F told it about a change, it would let him know if this affected his 
insurance: and that this could include the policy being cancelled. The policy explained that if 
Mr F didnt tell QIC about any changes, it wouldnt pay his claim and it may result in the 
policy being cancelled. So, I think its clear from the policy wording that it was for Mr F to tell 
QIC about the works before they began in order to check the policy still provided cover.
QIC says it made it clear that Mr F should read all his documents, including the terms and 
conditions, and notify QIC of any changes of circumstance. I note that the one of the 
documents lists all the questions and answers provided during the online application. This 
includes Mr Fs answer that there was no building work being carried out at the property. Mr 
F was asked to check this and let QIC know if any of the answers changed during the policy 
term. So having read all the documents, I think QIC did enough to let Mr F know what 
changes he should notify to QIC. 
Ive seen from QICs underwriting criteria that had Mr F notified QIC of the building work, it 
wouldnt have continued cover from the start of the work. I therefore dont think it was 
unreasonable for QIC to cancel the policy and backdate this to when the work started. 
Ive also considered whether it was fair for QIC to re-assess the risk insured during the policy 
term  and I think it was. I think the extent and nature of the work, with an additional 
bedroom and bathroom being added to the property, represented a fundamental change in 
risk.
Im aware that Mr F asked QIC to remove the cancellation from records as it was having a 
significant impact on his insurance premiums. QIC declined to do this saying that it 
appreciated Mr Fs error was careless, but it had a duty to accurately record information on 
its databases. I dont think this was unreasonable. Whilst Im sympathetic to Mr Fs situation, 
I dont think QIC has done anything wrong, so I cant ask it to remove the cancellation. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not upholding his complaint 
as I dont think QIC has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman