DRN-1719900
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
she made under her buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim on her RSA buildings insurance policy for damage to her conservatory. 
RSAs appointed loss adjusters concluded the conservatory had suffered a minor episode of 
subsidence due to shrinkage of the underlying clay subsoil, exacerbated by the moisture 
extracting influence of neighbouring oak trees.
RSA declined Mrs Bs claim. It said the existing foundations of 700-750mm for the 
conservatory were inadequate and didnt meet the standards of good building practice that 
wouldve been relevant at the time of construction. So it said cover wasnt available for the 
damage under Mrs Bs policy. Mrs B complained to RSA about its decision, but it maintained 
its position on the claim, so Mrs B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. He considered the loss adjusters conclusion that 
the conservatory would typically require foundations to be no less than 1m deep in a clay 
soil, and deeper (no exact measurement given) where theres vegetation. 
But the investigator noted the tree roots, thought to be responsible for the problem, had been 
found deeper than 1m. So, he said that even if the foundation had been built deeper, he 
wasnt persuaded this wouldve prevented the subsidence from occurring. He also noted the 
foundations of the conservatory were of a similar depth to those of the main property. 
RSA disagreed. It accepted its loss adjuster hadnt given an exact measurement of depth 
that would be required for Mrs Bs conservatory, other than stating the foundations should be 
no less than 1m. But it went on to quote guidelines from a warranty provider for new homes 
that it thought applied to Mrs Bs conservatory.
It said these guidelines were in place the year Mrs Bs conservatory was built and set out 
that foundations should be taken down to a depth of 2.5m when building near trees and in 
highly shrinkable clay soil. And as Mrs Bs conservatory foundations were much less than 
this, it still thought itd fairly declined her claim. 
Our investigator didnt think these guidelines applied to Mrs Bs conservatory. And as a 
resolution hasnt been agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Throughout the course of this complaint, a number of points have been made. And Ive 
carefully considered what Mrs B and RSA have said. But in this decision, Ill focus on what I 
see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of this 
complaint. And to decide if RSA has dealt with Mrs B in a fair and reasonable way.
The damage caused to Mrs Bs conservatory was found to be the result of subsidence 
caused by clay shrinkage exacerbated by nearby oak trees. Cover is available for 
subsidence under Mrs Bs policy, but its subject to certain limitations. 
The terms of Mrs Bs policy state that damage caused by, faulty workmanship, poor
design or the use of defective materials or damage caused by any of them is excluded 
under the cover available. And this is the term RSA relied on to decline Mrs Bs claim. But in 
order to fairly do this, the onus is on RSA to show this exclusion applies.
RSA has pointed to building guidelines about minimum foundation depths set out by a 
warranty provider for new homes  Ill refer to this company as A. But As guidelines apply 
to new homes (which Mrs Bs home isnt) and theres nothing to show Mrs Bs conservatory 
was subject to these guidelines at the time it was built. So, I dont think it would be fair to 
judge the design of the foundation against these guidelines  because from what Ive seen, I 
dont think they apply in this case.
Besides these guidelines, RSA has mainly relied on the findings from its loss adjuster in 
reaching its decision to decline Mrs Bs claim. Its also pointed to Building Regulations that it 
says required foundations on high shrinkage clay soils to be at least 1m at the time Mrs Bs 
conservatory was built. So Ive carefully considered this information. 
The loss adjuster noted the foundations supporting Mrs Bs main house were mass concrete 
at a depth of 750mm. And that the conservatory foundations were also mass concrete and 
were between 700 and 750mm. It said there was evidence of stiff clay subsoil to a depth of 
2100mm which was susceptible to swelling and shrinkage. And that roots found in the soil 
sample emanated from the oak tree species. The soil sample showed the oak tree roots 
were present at a depth of 1.5m.
The loss adjuster noted that while conservatories are often exempt structures under Building 
Regulations, they would typically require foundations to be no less than 1m deep, and 
deeper where theres vegetation. So it said Mrs Bs foundations didnt meet the standards of 
good building practice that wouldve been relevant at the time of construction. I understand 
the general point the loss adjuster is making, in that, while Building Regulations generally 
dont apply to conservatories, building them with these regulations in mind could be argued 
to be a form of good building practice. 
But Mrs Bs conservatory was built at some point in 2008. And from what Ive seen, Building 
Regulation, from that time, required foundations in clay soil to be a minimum of 750mm. So 
even if Mrs Bs conservatory had to comply with Building Regulation  which I dont think it 
did in this case  it seems the foundation depths were broadly in line with the minimum 
requirement necessary at the time the conservatory was built anyway. 
I also understand that its common practice to build extension foundations to a similar depth 
as the main house. And from what Ive seen, the main house foundations were found to be 
750mm  so it seems the conservatory foundation was also built broadly in line with this 
depth. 
It follows, based on what Ive seen in this case, Im not satisfied RSA has proven the 
subsidence that occurred to Mrs Bs conservatory was the result of faulty workmanship, poor design or the use of defective materials. So I dont think it can reasonably rely on the 
exclusion it has, to decline Mrs Bs claim. 
Ive considered all of RSAs points, including what its said about Building Regulations only 
outlining minimum requirements for construction based upon ideal site conditions, and not 
taking into account individual circumstances and ground conditions, as well as surrounding 
vegetation. So it thinks As guidelines should be considered alongside Building Regulations 
in this case, as they offer more guidance in relation to foundations where nearby vegetation 
is present.
Ive already explained why As guidelines dont apply in this case. And in relation to deeper 
foundations than the minimum requirements because of vegetation, I note that the oak tree 
roots were found at a depth of 1500mm. And clay sub soil that was subject to swelling and 
shrinkage was found at 2100mm. So generally speaking, even if Mrs Bs conservatory had 
been built with deeper foundations, the oak tree roots and soil shrinkage (thought to be the 
cause of the subsidence) would likely still exist at this deeper level. So these points dont 
change my conclusion.
It follows I uphold this complaint. To put things right RSA should accept Mrs Bs claim for 
subsidence and deal with it in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs B has also made this service aware that shes been in financial difficulty and so the 
delays in RSAs resolution to her claim has caused additional upset at an already 
challenging time for her. And I understand shes had to pay for some of the conservatory 
repairs herself. 
So I agree with the investigator that RSA should compensate Mrs B £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused in this case. And on receipt of evidence, it should reimburse her for any costs 
shes incurred that shouldve been covered under the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to:
Accept Mrs Bs claim for subsidence and deal with it in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mrs B any costs shes incurred that shouldve been covered under the 
policy in line with the applicable terms and conditions. Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should add 8% simple interest to any payment it makes Mrs B in 
relation to this, from the date Mrs B made any payments to the date of settlement.**
Pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.*
* Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest** on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple. 
**If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020. Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman