DRN-3388262
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible
for their actions. 
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Ss claim and complaint is a car that was subject to a lease
agreement. Mr S had the car insured with UKI. His family member Ms K was a named driver.
Unfortunately, there was an accident on 2 March 2020. The accident involved Ms K and two
third party drivers. Ms K was injured, and Mr Ss car was damaged. Ms K was not at fault.
Mr S instructed a repairer of his choice. UKI authorised repair in March 2020. But  during
the first lockdown for Covid-19  the garage couldnt start the repair and UKI didnt provide a
courtesy car.
Mr S and Ms K were without the use of the car. In mid-June 2020, UKI treated the car as a
total loss. UKI paid the lease company about £28,000.00 in late June 2020. UKI recovered
some of its outlay by selling the damaged car and UKI recovered some of its outlay from
third party insurers.
Meanwhile, UKI referred Ms K to its sister company to pursue her injury claim against the
third party.
In about June 2021, Ms K complained to UKI that its delay had prejudiced Mr Ss claim
against the third party for £1,920.00 loss of use of the car. By a final response dated 8 July
2021, UKI turned down that complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the delay by Mr Ss
repairer or any delay after the car was declared a total loss.
Ms K brought Mr Ss complaint to us in late September 2021. She said that UKI shouldve
included a loss of use claim in its claim against the third party.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI
had acted fairly for the following reasons:
Any delays in the car being declared a write off were due to the car being at a garage 
of Mr Ss choice for which theyd initially agreed on the repair costs;
UKI did not cause any delays in the settlement of the claim once theyd been advised 
the car was a write off;
UKI dealt with Mr Ss complaint in respect of the courtesy car separately;
UKI had confirmed they didnt receive a loss of use claim from Mr S;
Any further complaint regarding the loss of use claim will need to be referred to UKIs 
sister company.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to UKI on 21 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
UKI was entitled to pursue a claim against the third party, but UKI was not obliged to 
do so for the benefit of Mr S or Ms K.
I wouldnt expect UKI to try to pursue a loss of use claim against the third party for 
the benefit of Mr S or Ms K. For that reason I wasnt minded that UKI treated Mr S 
unfairly by not pursuing such a claim. And I wasnt minded to find it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr S £1,920.00 for his loss of use claim  or to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from UKI, my provisional decision was not to 
uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor UKI has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance
company or other regulated financial firm about a regulated financial activity. In our final
decision, we name that regulated firm, but we dont identify any other individual or company
(even a sister company).
Im dealing with Mr Ss complaint against UKI.
UKIs policy terms included the following:
We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy;
 take proceedings in your name, or in the name of any other person covered by, and
in connection with, this policy for your, or our own benefit.
I consider that the effect of that policy term was that UKI was entitled to pursue a claim
against the third party, but UKI was not obliged to do so for the benefit of Mr S or Ms K.
Ms K sent us an email dated 15 May 2020 and addressed to UKI. It included the following:
There has also been a significant loss of use and enjoyment especially taking into
consideration the make, model of my vehicle, the fact it was almost brand new at the
time of the accident and no hire car replacement was provided by [UKI]As this is a no fault claim, I expect the costs of an equivalent hire car to be claimed
from the other side from the date of the accident up to the date my vehicle is repaired
and reimbursed the same. Alternatively, I would accept a reimbursement of my
monthly car finance payments from the other side up until the date my vehicle is
repaired. If hire car costs cannot be claimed from the other side then I expect [UKI]
to reimburse theses costs for the failings it has made in not providing a guaranteed
hire car under the terms of my policy.
Ms K has also sent us an email dated 5 June 2020 from UKI. It acknowledged that the
policy entitled Mr S to a small hire car. And it said that in a non-fault claim  UKI or its hire
car provider shouldve provided a car like Mr Ss. As it hadnt arranged any hire car, UKI
offered £150.00 and offered to consider any receipts for alternative transport.
I wouldnt expect UKI to try to pursue a loss of use claim against the third party for the
benefit of Mr S or Ms K. For that reason I dont find that UKI treated Mr S unfairly by not
pursuing such a claim. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr S 
£1,920.00 for his loss of use claim  or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman