DRN-2852994
The complaint
 Mrs O complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd declined the claim she made on her gadget 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Os family member bought a mobile phone for their own use. But as they couldnt afford 
to insure it, Mrs O purchased gadget insurance on their behalf and completed the paperwork 
in her own name. 
Mrs O told us that she contacted Bastion, via its administrator, on 16 May 2019 to provide 
proof of purchase and ownership (in her family members name), proof that the phone was in 
full working order and proof of the IMEI number. She also stated that it was her family 
members phone. 
Bastion responded to confirm that the information supplied was sufficient and that her cover 
met the policy requirements and was in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mrs O made a claim in August 2019. She told us shed followed the process as advised, 
obtained a quote for repair from the manufacturer and submitted the paperwork to Bastion. 
Mrs O said the claim was declined in September 2019. Bastion said it wasnt her phone and 
the policy didnt extend to family members so the claim was denied.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He felt that it was understandable Mrs O thought 
the phone was covered and said the claim should be paid. But Bastion disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Was there cover in place?
Its clear from the terms and conditions that the policyholder must be the owner of the 
gadget.
Proof of Ownership must be provided and this is defined as:
A document to provide proof that the Gadget You are claiming for is owned by You.
And You is defined as:
the person who took out this policy and is named as the Policyholder, and who is 
named as the Policyholder within the primary insurance policy. This policy does not 
cover family members, or members who are not You. The policy only covers the 
named person listed on Your Policy Certificate.
Mrs O isnt the owner of the gadget. I accept that the terms and conditions clearly set out 
that Mrs Os situation, in which the owner of the phone and the policyholder werent the 
same person, wouldnt be covered by this policy. But I have to consider the email 
communication between Mrs O and Bastion. She was honest in her communication and 
Bastion accepted it and said her cover met the policy requirements.  Based on what Bastion 
said, I can see no reason why Mrs O wouldve thought the phone wasnt covered or that 
thered be an issue in the event of a claim. Im persuaded she was given a clear message 
that the circumstances shed described were acceptable. 
Had Bastion indicated to the contrary, I think its more likely than not Mrs O wouldve taken 
alternative action to make sure her family member was adequately insured. She could, for 
example, have transferred money to them so they could take out the insurance policy 
themselves. 
Bastion has raised the general insurance principle of insurable interest in which Mrs O isnt 
allowed to collect more than her own financial interest in the item that has been damaged or 
destroyed. But Bastion was made aware of a potential issue with insurable interest at the 
point at which Mrs O told it she wasnt the owner of the phone  and it seemingly allowed the 
cover to proceed despite this. 
So, I conclude, based on the circumstances involved in this particular complaint, the phone 
should be treated as being covered by the insurance policy based on the actions of Bastion. 
Should the claim succeed?
Bastion has said that, even if it accepted that Mrs O did have cover, shes changed her 
version of events and added additional detail that it didnt have at the time which supports a 
positive claim outcome. It questioned why information was added after the claim was denied. 
Due to the question around whether there was a valid policy in place, I cant see that there 
was a full investigation into the claim. While there have been contradictions in the version of 
events, I think this can be explained in part by the confusion around whether the policyholder 
or the owner of the phone should be presenting the claim. Given how long its been since the 
claim was made, where the focus has been on whether a policy was even in place, I think 
Mrs O somewhat lost her opportunity to present the circumstances surrounding her 
complaint or answer any resulting queries. I think Bastion had ample opportunity to have 
questioned what happened at the time of the incident when the claim was first made had the 
focus been on the claim and not the validity of the policy  and I note theres been no 
substantive new evidence since the claim was first made. 
In this particular case, I dont think it would be fair to decline the claim on the basis of the 
slight variations in the version of events. I think this would result in Mrs Os claim being 
unfairly prejudiced due to the passage of time between making the claim and the 
conversations with our service around two years later, when recollections are likely to have 
faded. Based on all the evidence Ive been provided with, I dont think there was a violation 
of the requirement to provide complete, accurate and true declarations when presenting the 
claim. 
The policy provides cover for Accidental Damage: the costs of repairing Your Gadget for 
Accidental Damage which is the appropriate insured peril in this case.
And the policy says You must keep Your Gadget within Your possession being on or about 
Your person, control and proximity at all times, whilst away from Your Home.Bastion feels that accepting the claim would effectively mean adding a family use benefit to 
the policy when the terms specifically state that family members arent covered. But I 
disagree. Im satisfied that the incident, whether it was Mrs O or her family member holding 
the phone at the time, falls under the terms of the policy. The phone wasnt lent to an 
unknown party and the family member who owned the phone was consistently said to be in 
close proximity, even if not actually holding the phone. I conclude the phone was on or about 
the owners person, and within their control and proximity. So it would appear that this claim 
meets the required terms and conditions.
I dont think it appropriate to ask Bastion to consider the claim now. Its been a substantial 
amount of time since the incident, so I cant think of any additional information or proof that 
could be provided. The phone was repaired some time ago and Mrs O didnt have the 
opportunity to discuss the repair quotes with Bastion as it declined the claim. So I think a fair 
resolution would be for Bastion to accept the claim and pay out the repair costs, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, along with 8% simple interest. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Bastion should reimburse the phone repairs which cost £389, less the 
excess. It should also pay interest of 8% per year from the date the payment for repairs was 
made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd 
to provide the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman