DRN-3166279
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed her after shes 
said a fraudster carried out a series of transactions using her card.
What happened
In late 2017 Ms A paid for service with two online course providers. One of these providers 
continued to charge her every four weeks. A total of nine payments totalling £314.55 were 
taken between August 2017 and May 2018. 
In May 2018 she noticed these charges and contacted the course provider whod taken the 
money. She said she didnt recognise the transactions and hadnt agreed for them to be 
taken. The course provider responded and confirmed the name on its account wasnt Ms As 
name, but another person. It asked her if she recognised this person and she said she didnt. 
It agreed it would refund the charges and they would appear in her account within 24 hours. 
The refund wasnt made as expected.
Towards the end of 2020, Ms A brought a complaint to our service. She said shed contacted 
Santander on many occasions to dispute the transactions but it hadnt helped her and told 
her she needed to raise the matter with the course provider.
Our service contacted Santander about the complaint and it said it had no record of Ms A 
ever having contacted it about this issue. It issued a final response, but based on what Ms A 
had said it thought the payments had been made by direct debit and said if a direct debit had 
been set up incorrectly she would need to raise this with the course provider. 
As the final response didnt answer her complaint Ms A asked us to look into things. Our 
investigator established the payments were actually taken under a continuous payment 
authority (CPA) not by direct debit. So whoever made the transactions had access to Ms As 
card details. And, although the course provider said they belonged to an account with a 
name different to hers, none of the other circumstances of the complaint plausibly explained 
how someone else couldve used her card without her knowledge. So they thought Ms A 
likely did authorise the transactions. Ms A didnt accept this, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). I 
wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer is 
responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised by 
the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
Im aware that Santander feels that according to the account terms and conditions the 
disputed transactions have been raised too late to be investigated. And Ive considered the 
delay where relevant to this case. But Im satisfied the complaint is one I can consider.
The website of the third party that took the payments from Ms A provides services for a fee, 
taken every four weeks. If card details are provided, it appears the payment is taken under a 
CPA not a direct debit as Santander and Ms A previously thought. 
Several years have now passed so its difficult to establish exactly what happened. But it 
seems Ms As card details were correctly provided to make the payment. I say this because 
if any of the details given were incorrect it seems unlikely payments wouldve been 
successfully linked to and taken from Ms As account as this type of payment is generally an 
automated process. So I think the payment instruction has likely been made in line with the 
agreed processes and terms and conditions of the account and wouldve appeared to have 
been authorised from Santanders perspective when they were made. 
Ms A has said she didnt authorise the payments and was unaware of them until a few 
months after they started. But having considered the information provided very carefully, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not she did authorise them.
According to the course providers website, before a charge is applicable there is a four 
week free trial period. To benefit from this period the user needs to enter their name, email 
address, phone number and payment details. Its website sets out that as long as the user 
cancels at the end of the free trial period, no payment will be taken. I dont know what 
information wouldve been provided back in 2017 and Im conscious nearly four years has 
passed. But it seems likely similar information was available given payments have been 
taken from Ms A for a set amount every four weeks. 
On 30 July 2017, Ms A emailed the course provider and asked it to cancel her membership. 
The same day, she made a payment of £85 to the same course provider for the option of a 
lifetime membership. Ms A used an e-money provider to pay for the lifetime membership 
rather than her card. So it seems likely shed entered into a free trial with the course provider 
and at the end of this opted to pay for the services. The course provider responded to Ms As 
cancellation request and said she didnt need to cancel it as her account had converted to a 
lifetime membership. 
Around four weeks later the course provider started to charge Ms A every four weeks using 
her card details, seemingly under a CPA. And when she queried this over six months later, 
the course provider said the account the payment was linked to was in a different persons 
name. Ms A has said this means someone mustve taken her card details and used them 
fraudulently  without her consent. 
But whilst I accept this is what shes been told by the course provider, and I can see the 
course provider account isnt in her name, Ms A hasnt been able to provide any plausible 
explanation as to how anyone other than her mightve been able to access her card. She 
hasnt said she lost it, or it was stolen at any point - and this doesnt seem to have been the 
case given I can see her usage of her account was consistent around the time the payments 
started. 
It doesnt appear shes disputed any other transactions around the same time. And it seems 
unusual a fraudster would go to the lengths to obtain her details and then only sign up for a 
subscription, at the end of a free trial, that couldve been noticed on the account holders 
statements and cancelled at any point. It also seems a significant coincidence that a 
fraudster has obtained Ms As card details, and has then only used these details to sign up 
for a service she herself signed up for, during exactly the same period.It also seems strange that Ms A seems to have waited several years to raise the matter with 
Santander or to follow up the refund she was told she was receiving from the course 
provider. Im aware Ms A has said she complained to Santander after the third party failed to 
refund her. Shes said she phone it several times to complain in the following years but she 
also says she cant remember when this mightve been and cant provide any evidence of 
this. Shes said every time she spoke to someone at Santander they told her to go back to 
the third party and refused to help her. 
Santander has no record of any of these calls taking place. And this seems strange, 
because it does have records of another dispute Ms A raised between her and a retailer 
around November 2020. And on this occasion it didnt simply refer her back to the retailer, it 
investigated the dispute as Id expect. So its not clear why it wouldve logged this incident 
but not multiple attempts at a different dispute Ms A had raised. Its also not clear why, if Ms 
A believed Santander had been ignoring her dispute claims, when she made a different 
dispute that was investigated she didnt question this further. It seems strange that Ms A 
says she had repeatedly contacted Santander about this issue but then not followed up on 
multiple occasions when it failed to respond or help her. 
Whilst Ive noted her comments about only being able to contact it by phone, this doesnt 
seem to have impacted her ability to raise her other dispute. And the evidence shes 
provided of raising a written complaint seems to have been around the same time she 
brought the complaint to our service rather than during the period shes said she was calling 
Santander. Overall it seems strange Ms A noticed the payments in 2018 and theres no 
evidence, other than her testimony, to suggest she took this matter any further until over two 
years later. 
I accept that perhaps there has been some confusion between Ms A and the course 
provider around what service she entered into or perhaps payments werent cancelled as 
they shouldve been. And unfortunately, any dispute with the merchant has been raised 
too late to be disputed through Santander. 
In terms of Santanders responsibility in this case, it appears Ms As correct card details 
were used to authorise a payment with a merchant she had a relationship with. And, from 
what I can see, the merchant clearly explained the terms of the agreement being entered 
into and that payment would be taken every four weeks after the end of the free trial. So, 
overall, I think its reasonable Santander has treated the payments as authorised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman