DRN-3495095
The complaint
Ms W has complained about the time it has taken to transfer her account and the service 
she has received from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when her accounts were migrated over from 
a previous firm. 
What happened
In July 2020 Ms Ws accounts  a trading account and a stocks and shares ISA  which she 
held with a previous firm and which had gone into administration, were transferred over to 
ITI. Ms W didnt want to hold her portfolio with ITI and gave instructions to transfer her 
accounts.
Ms W wanted her two accounts to be transferred to three difference recipient firms who I 
shall refer to as Company A, B and C. The trading account was to be transferred to 
Company A and the ISA split between Company B and Company C in order to spread the 
risk of having a considerable sum with one broker. 
After the transfer to ITI Ms W was promised access to her accounts by 23 July, but this didnt 
happen. She wasnt able to access her accounts online, ITI didnt answer any complaints 
raised via its online ticketing system, responses to emails took weeks, and ITI couldnt tell 
her when she would have access to her savings. 
Ms W complained to ITI on 29 August. In ITIs response to her complaint on 23 October it 
said;
It accepted the onboarding process, access to the trading platform and 
communication had been unreasonably delayed. It apologised if Ms W felt her 
investments were at risk.
The information Ms W had been given about her portfolio was inadequate or wrong 
and the lack of provision of information Ms W had asked for was unacceptable.
It outlined how it was putting the matter right  trading on both accounts would be 
available and it provided the history of Ms Ws accounts. 
It gave details of the delay in the transfer of Ms Ws assets and that it had a backlog 
of work because of many transfer requests. 
It offered £250 for the inconvenience and/or distress caused. 
Ms W wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. In response to some questions asked by our investigator who was considering 
the complaint she told us;
She never managed to access her accounts. Shares either werent shown, or 
incorrect amounts and prices were shown.
The transfer request for her trading account to Company A was made on 30 July 
2020 and completed around 15 December. Ms W told us her holdings appeared on 
her account with Company A on 1 December, disappeared the next day and 
reappeared on 8 December and disappeared again on 14 and returned to her 
account shortly after.
The partial transfer of her ISA to Company B was requested on 5 August and 
completed on 30 September. Cash was received later which she could only assume 
related to a dividend payment.
The second partial ISA transfer to Company C was never successfully completed by 
ITI. This was a high value holding  Ms W says of around £300,000. Without reason 
it was transferred to Company B on 28 October. She asked for Company B to return 
it to ITI which happened around four weeks later. The holding was again transferred 
to Company B without instruction from Ms W on 14 December. Rather than return the 
holding to ITI, it was transferred to Company C from Company B in March 2021. 
Overall, the onboarding process didnt work, Ms W wasnt able to trade and the 
transfer process was prolonged and stressful. She thought the offer made by ITI of 
£250 was derisory and she didnt wish to accept it. The transfers were still to 
complete.
The investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld. She said;
The service provided by ITI fell well below what was to be expected from a regulated 
business. Ms W had been caused inconvenience and worry by the lengthy transfer 
delay.
ITI had twice and without instruction, incorrectly transferred Ms Ws large ISA 
shareholding to Company B instead of Company C during which time Ms W hadnt 
known the whereabouts of this large shareholding. 
Overall, the investigator recommended a payment of £450 be made to Ms W. 
ITI told us it had dealt with transfers to Company B on many occasions and had evidence 
confirming Company B accepted the transfer on 22 September 2020 for the large 
shareholding. It said Company B could not have accepted the transfer without the Ms W's 
consent.
In response Ms W said Company B didnt have instruction to receive the shareholding. And 
because of the confusion between ITI and Company B her large holding was with neither of 
them for a month. Even though she had wanted a higher award than recommended by the 
investigator she would accept it. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably, however I think the £450 
compensation recommended is broadly fair and reasonable. 
I very much recognise Ms Ws strength of feeling about her complaint. Its very clear she is, 
and has been, extremely frustrated and stressed by the process. Ive considered the 
submissions she has made very carefully. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I have taken into account the testimony 
and evidence provided by Ms W, but I have very little evidence or information from ITI to 
consider.
Transfer of the trading account to Company A
The transfer took over four months to complete. And Ms W has told us of the additional 
worry of her shareholdings appearing in on her account with Company A at the beginning of 
December and then disappearing twice before they were eventually returned to her account. 
Clearly, I cant know why Ms Ws shares disappeared and then reappeared  whether this 
was just an IT error as an example. But this and the unacceptable delays Ms W experienced 
must have undoubtedly caused considerable frustration and concern.  
Partial transfer of the ISA account to Company B
HMRC guidelines for transfer of a stocks and shares ISA is that it should complete within 30 
days. Clearly this didnt happen here. The transfer took nearly two months and was then 
followed by a cash payment which Ms W didnt know what it was for but assumed it was a 
dividend payment. 
Again, this no doubt caused Ms W frustration and also irritation at the delay in the transfer 
and not knowing what the cash payment was for or where it came from. 
Partial transfer of the ISA account to Company C
Ms W has told us this one shareholding was valued at around £300,000 and that being the 
case she said was part of her reason for splitting her ISA between two providers. She didnt 
want the same thing to happen as with the previous firm that had gone into administration so 
made the decision to spread that risk over two providers. She was conscious of the financial 
limits provided by the regulatory framework if something did go wrong with a firm. 
ITI told us it could only find emails from 2020 regarding one wrong transfer request regarding 
this shareholding. However, I note the email conversation between Ms W and ITI that it has 
given us which is dated 15 and 18 December and where Ms W comments I have asked 
[Company B] to keep the shares as this is the second time this has happened in as many 
months. So, while ITI may not be able to find anything about two incorrect transfers, I think 
the contemporaneous evidence suggests it more likely did happen twice.  
ITI has said the shares were transferred on 22 September 2020 and that transfer wouldnt 
have completed with Company B without Ms Ws consent. However, I note Ms W has said 
these shouldnt have been accepted by Company B, but as far as this complaint against ITI 
is concerned, it seems there were failures in this transfer. 
So, I can understand Ms Ws very real concerns when this high value holding effectively 
went missing and was transferred to Company B instead of Company C  not just once, but 
twice. And then as Ms W no longer had faith in ITI, the correct transfer to Company C was 
implemented by Company B many months later. I can recognise why Ms W told us she was 
distraught during this period and the time it took to complete the transfer which was well 
outside of HMRC guidelines.
The overall service provided to Ms W
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. 
And in any relationship between a consumer and a business there is always the potential for 
errors or misunderstandings. If that happens, it is how a business responds to that that is 
important. I think all of the above, as examples, make clear that ITIs dealings with Ms W  
the lack of communication it had with her and the poorly handled transfers  evidence the 
service she received was well below what would be expected.
ITI did note this in its response to Ms Ws complaint. It apologised for the extensive time it 
had taken to resolve the matters raised by Ms W. And it offered £250 in recognition of this. 
Putting things right
As Ive said above Ms W wasnt happy with the offer and particularly because at that point 
the transfers hadnt been completed and she experienced further significant problems and 
delays with those transfers. So, like the investigator, I think this offer should be increased 
and I think the amount of £450 is fair and reasonable and a more realistic reflection of the 
considerable trouble and upset Ms W has been caused by ITI. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint about the poor service she has received from ITI Capital Limited 
and I make an award to Ms W of £450. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman