DRN-3248741
The complaint
Mrs I complains about a payment taken from her account by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. Shes also unhappy that the settlement figure was higher than she expected.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs I was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
Mrs I says the dealership advised her that the first 3 months of the agreement would be on 
them. However, in the third month she was unhappy to discover that a payment of £400.33 
had been taken from her bank account.
Mrs I contacted VWFS to recover the payment and request a settlement figure. Her attempts 
to recover the payment were unsuccessful and the settlement figure was higher than she 
was expecting.
Mrs I complained to VWFS. It confirmed that her agreement had been applied for under the 
3 Months On Us campaign which meant that the APR % was reduced in order to reduce the 
total cost of the agreement by the equivalent of three monthly rentals. It said the three 
months on them applied to the October, November and December rentals, meaning that the 
payment taken in January 2021 was correct.
Mrs I didnt agree with the response. She says the campaign was misleading and that the 
dealership had told her that there would ne no penalties for early settlement. She brought 
her complaint to this service, seeking a refund of £400.33.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mrs I had signed the agreement 
on 19 September 2020 and that the terms were that the first 3 months would be paid by the 
dealership, meaning that she didnt have to make payments in October, November and 
December 2020. The investigator said that the payment taken in January 2021 was correct. 
In relation to the settlement figure, the investigator said that the agreement explained the 
right of early repayment and said that VWFS had acted in line with this.
Mrs I didnt agree. She said shed paid £400 more to settle the agreement than the 
dealership had told her shed need to pay, and she said the payment shouldnt have bene 
taken from her account until February 2021.
VWFS reviewed the complaint and said it would like to offer Mrs I £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the information which had been given by the dealership.
The investigator thought the offer was fair but Mrs I said she still wanted a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement which Mrs I signed on 19 September 2020. It says that Mrs I 
must make one repayment of £0.00 comprising an acceptance fee of £0.00 on a  date set by 
VWFS which will be at least one month after the date of the agreement, followed by monthly 
repayments of £400.33 on the same date of each successive month, save that there will be 
a payment holiday in months 1,2 and 3.
Based on what the agreement says, Im satisfied that it was made clear that the first 
contractual payment was due in October 2020 but that no payments would be taken in 
months 1,2 and 3 i.e. October, November and December 2020. I dont think VWFS made an 
error when it took a payment in January 2021.
Ive taken account of what Mrs I said about her interpretation of the agreement. I understand 
the point she makes but I dont agree with her interpretation. As Ive said above, Im satisfied 
that the agreement makes it clear that the first payment was due in October 2020.
I understand that Mrs I always intended to settle the agreement early, after the first 3 
months. Shes said that the settlement figure was higher than she expected. I dont know 
what settlement figure the dealership discussed with Mrs I. Ive looked at the agreement and 
Im satisfied that it states the total amount repayable and the right of early repayment. Mrs I 
has signed the agreement so she would have been aware of the terms and conditions. 
Whilst I can see that VWFS has recognised that the dealership may have caused some 
confusion in the information it gave (or didnt give) about the agreement, and has made an 
offer of £200 in this respect, Im unable to say that VWFs has done anything wrong, because 
it provided a settlement figure in line with the terms of the agreement.  I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me that the settlement figure was incorrect.
VWFS has made an offer of £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs I as a 
result of the dealerships actions. Whilst I appreciate that this is less than Mrs I seeks to 
recover, I think the offer is fair. I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman