DRN-1510426
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited rejected his claim 
under his critical illness policies. 
What happened
Mr Ts two policies with Royal London began in 2009 and gave him a total critical illness 
cover of £1,350,000 (£1,000,000 of cover from one policy and £350,000 from another). 
Sadly, Mr T fell ill in 2013. He contacted Royal London to claim for a stroke but this was 
declined. Unfortunately, Mr Ts health continued to decline. In 2016 he was unable to 
continue making payments towards his policies. So they lapsed on 15 April 2016 and
05 May 2016. 
In May 2018 Mr T contacted Royal London through his solicitor to claim under the Total and 
Permanent Disability (TPD) section of his policies. Unhappy with the time it was taking to 
review the claim, Mr T then made a complaint. 
Royal London looked into the complaint and sent a final response letter  dated
20 August 2019  saying it was still reviewing the medical information and waiting for some 
outstanding information from Mr Ts other insurance company. And without this it couldnt 
make a decision on the claim. Unhappy with this response, Mr T asked this service to 
investigate the complaint. He said he felt he had the medical evidence to show that he was  
on balance  totally and permanently disabled before his policies lapsed.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but felt Mr T hadnt shown he was totally and 
permanently disabled before the policies lapsed. Mr T disagreed. He felt there was sufficient 
evidence from his treating consultant to conclude he did meet the definition of totally and 
permanently disabled whilst the policies were in place. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
 
 
Firstly, I believe its worth explaining that this service does have a limit it can legally ask 
Royal London to pay Mr T in the event I did believe this claim should be accepted. The limit 
this service can award (applicable to this complaint) is £160,000. For anything above this, so 
£1,190,000 here, this service could only recommend Royal London pay the remaining part of the claim. So, it wouldnt be legally binding on Royal London to make any further award 
above £160,000. 
Mr T has provided a lot of information through his solicitor for our service to consider. Id like 
to assure him that Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything that hes 
mentioned. Ill be concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence from Royal London which shows that plan number ending 0205 (which 
provided £1,000,000 of cover) was rescinded and replaced with plan number ending in 2108. 
This plan had the correct working tasks which Mr T needed to meet in order for his claim to 
be accepted. And this is what Ive considered here. 
So in order to ask Royal London to accept this claim under its policies, I need to be satisfied 
from all of the evidence that Mr T was totally and permanently disabled (as described by the 
work tasks in the terms and conditions) before his policies lapsed. 
These policies define working tasks as the following; 
Any illness or injury arising before age 65 which:
prevents the person covered from doing at least 2 out of the 6 working tasks without 
the assistance of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive devices
the disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement. (only mentioned in the £350,000 policy)
Mr Ts £1,000,000 policy also asks that any diagnosis of a critical illness is the first and 
unequivocal. 
There is no dispute Mr T was able to do four of the six tasks (Using a pen/pencil/keyboard", 
"Hearing", "Speech" and "Vision" before the policies lapsed. So, this claim centres around 
whether Mr T was unable to do the following two tasks before his policies lapsed; 
"Walking: the ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other aid without 
stopping or severe discomfort."
Lifting: the ability to pick up 1kg (with either hand in the £350,000 policy) from table height 
and carry it for 5 metres."
One of the specialists who saw Mr T in October 2014 said he didnt assess whether Mr T 
could lift or carry 1kg or 2kg weights because Mr T said he couldnt do this. The consultant 
also felt  on balance  he couldnt be considered permanently disabled at that point. 
The same consultant said as time goes by, the chances of successful rehabilitation decline 
significantly. But I dont agree with Mr Ts solicitor that he must have therefore been 
permanently disabled in April 2016. Despite the time that had passed since the consultant 
had reviewed Mr T in October 2014, I believe there was still a chance of some improvement 
in his condition in April 2016. And letters from Mr Ts consultant and another doctor in
July 2016 show that his condition and management of his symptoms did improve. He was 
also sent for mental health and pain management referrals before the policies lapsed. Later 
on, Mr Ts neurology consultant commented in October 2017 that with psychological help his 
functional abilities could improve. 
So Im satisfied this shows the consultants who saw Mr T before and after the policy lapsed 
thought his condition could improve. This information leads me to conclude that the evidence from around the time the policies lapsed shows Mr T couldnt have reasonably been 
considered to be totally and permanently disabled with no prospect of improvement. Or that 
he had received an unequivocal diagnosis. 
In April 2018 Mr Ts treating consultant has said that  on balance  he wouldnt have been 
able to do the tasks as of January 2016. Ive also considered Mr Ts claim for benefits in 
2013. An active assessment said Mr T could walk 50 metres, but wouldnt be able to walk 
200 metres. Unfortunately, an assessment wasnt made of his ability to lift weights. 
The problem I have when considering whether it would be fair to ask Royal London to meet 
the claim is the two consultants Mr T is relying on in this claim never assessed the walking 
and lifting tasks fully. And due to the time that passed between the policies lapsing and the 
claim being submitted, Royal London was unable to ask for its own independent review. 
When Mr T was seen by the first consultant in 2014, he didnt observe him attempt to lift the 
1kg weight. And the consultant who said he was permanently disabled in 2016 said she 
would anticipate him being unable to complete the tasks.
Ive also considered that the lifting task is deliberately worded to mean that someone unable 
to lift 1kg and walk with it for 5 metres would have to be considered totally and permanently 
disabled. In April 2018, Mr Ts consultant said  on balance  he wouldnt have been able to 
complete this task. However, in January 2019, after being asked to explain her conclusions, 
she said Mr T would be able to lift a 2kg weight and hold it for 60 seconds with pain. And this 
was based on Mr Ts current abilities at the time of her letter.  Im afraid I find these two 
statements slightly contradictory. So, Im not satisfied Mr T wouldve been unable to lift a 
kilogram weight and walk 5 metres with an appropriate assistive device before his policies 
lapsed if he was able to lift double the weight some time later - albeit with some pain. 
So, I dont believe Mr T met the definition of totally and permanently disabled, as defined in 
the terms and conditions of his policies, before the policies lapsed. So Im not going to ask 
Royal London to take any further action here. 
Ive considered whether Royal Londons handling of this claim has caused Mr T avoidable 
distress and inconvenience. I dont doubt the situation has been very hard for Mr T to deal 
with. I note this claim has taken a long time to come to a conclusion. Ive seen that Royal 
London were waiting on information from Mr Ts other insurance company to consider the 
claim fully. This was - most likely - because the same consultants needed to be contacted. 
But I dont believe Royal London was responsible for the delays here. When reviewing a 
complicated claim where various bits of information need to be requested from a variety of 
consultants, this will always take some time. And its only fair that when this information is 
provided it is properly reviewed and any further information or additional questioning of the 
evidence undertaken  as it was here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman