DRN-2746513
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Services Limited failed to carry out an annual service and 
cancelled his homecare cover without warning. It also failed to install a new thermostat 
system as agreed.
What happened
Mr S said British Gas didnt do the annual service on his central heating. It was also 
supposed to install a smart thermostat at the same time. But it cancelled his cover. 
Mr S said hes received a very poor service from British Gas. He didnt want the £100 
goodwill cheque. He wanted British Gas to honour its commitment to carry out the service 
and install the smart thermostat. 
British Gas apologised that the service Mr S had received wasnt to the standard he was 
expecting. It could see Mr S had been advised to add the installation as part of the upcoming 
annual boiler service. But Mr S had purchased the thermostat from the manufacturer with 
self-installation. 
It could see Mr S had made a number of calls to try and confirm what would happen. And 
hed been incorrectly told the installation would be added to the boiler service and wouldnt 
be chargeable. When the engineer arrived to carry out the service he explained the smart 
package didnt include installation. British Gas said the engineer was correct and it was sorry 
Mr S had previously been given the wrong information. 
British Gas said the engineer hadnt completed the service as Mr S had phoned to query the 
installation and said he was going to cancel the policy. Mr S was then given further incorrect 
information. But British Gas could now confirm itd added central heating cover back on his 
policy. And it would like to arrange the first service. British Gas apologised for the time spent 
and stress caused to Mr S. And it offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with British Gas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She explained British Gas werent fitting thermostats at 
that time. And that was why Mr S hadnt been able to buy it (for a higher price) with 
installation included. 
Although Mr S had been told British Gas could carry out the installation it wasnt part of the 
terms of his policy. So she couldnt say British Gas had done anything wrong in relation to 
the installation. 
But our investigator agreed Mr S had received a poor service from British Gas. He was told 
on two occasions the thermostat could be fitted during the service. And that wasnt correct. 
When the engineer came to service the boiler he shouldnt have left before completing the 
work  even if hed heard Mr S discussing cancelling the policy. And Mr S received further 
poor service while it was being sorted out. 
Our investigator looked at everything thatd happened. And she thought British Gass offer of 
£100 compensation was fair in the circumstances. So she wouldnt be asking for a higher 
amount.
Mr S didnt agree. Itd been verbally agreed that the installation would be carried out as part 
of the annual service. And when he purchased the thermostat a second time he couldnt buy 
it with installation included due to a shortage of engineers. But British Gas had advertised a 
free installation service. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration. He had the smart thermostat system at his previous 
address. And when he arranged for work to be carried out at his new property it was 
suggested he might be able to have it installed at the same time as his first annual service.
Mr S purchased the thermostat online directly from the manufacturer without the additional 
installation cost included in the purchase price. Our investigator has explained that our 
service cant look at the options Mr S was offered when he purchased the smart thermostat 
as that isnt a regulated activity. 
So I cant comment on what types of packages were available to Mr S when he tried to 
purchase the product. But I can look at the service Mr S received when he arranged an 
annual service as part of his homecare policy. 
Its clear Mr S was given the wrong information when he asked British Gas about carrying out 
the installation for him. He wanted to arrange an annual service through his homecare 
policy. And he was wrongly told the engineer would also be able to install the thermostat at 
the same time. 
Mr S shouldve been told British Gas werent carrying out that sort of installation at the time 
due to the covid situation. That was why customers werent able to purchase the thermostat 
with an included installation package. 
Mr S hadnt paid extra for installation and it wasnt included as part of the service provided 
by his homecare policy. So when the engineer arrived to carry out the boiler service its 
understandable why they said they couldnt fit the thermostat as well. It wasnt part of the 
work schedule and there was no agreement in place between the thermostat manufacturer 
and British Gas to cover the cost of installation.
I do appreciate Mr S was expecting the engineer to install the thermostat. Hed confirmed 
with British Gas by telephone it would do so. But British Gas staff had made a mistake. It 
wasnt possible to do so. And British Gas has apologised for giving Mr S the wrong 
impression.
Mr S was understandably upset to discover the engineer wouldnt be carrying out the 
installation. And he contacted British Gas to find out what had gone wrong. It seems British 
Gas further compounded its mistake  and Mr Ss upset  when the engineer left without 
completing the service, thinking Mr S wanted to cancel the policy.
That shouldnt have happened. I can understand if Mr S was becoming frustrated by what 
was happening. But the engineer couldve checked what to do before deciding to leave. He 
still had a service to complete and Mr S still had a policy in place.British Gas then cancelled Mr Ss policy because the engineer thought that was what he 
wanted. But it shouldve contacted Mr S first and tried to find out what had gone wrong. And I 
understand it has now reinstated Mr Ss cover for his central heating system and apologised 
again for its mistakes.
I know Mr S feels he had a verbal agreement that British Gas would fit the thermostat during 
his service. But hed purchased a package that didnt include any fitting cost. And I cant hold 
British Gas responsible for the options offered by a different company when Mr S bought the 
thermostat.
There was clearly some confusion when Mr S spoke to British Gas and he shouldnt have 
been told the installation could go ahead. It wasnt possible as Ive explained above. And 
British Gas has apologised for giving Mr S the wrong information. 
Mr S would like British Gas to simply honour its original promise to install the thermostat. He 
says it was even advertising free installation deals, although it wasnt possible to select 
them. But I understand the ongoing situation is causing long delays for certain types of work 
and British Gas can only offer normal boiler services within a short timeframe at present.
I dont underestimate how distressing Mr S has found this. He received incorrect information 
from British Gas on more than one occasion. And it mustve been very upsetting when the 
engineer arrived and left without completing either task.
I understand British Gas is now trying to arrange an installation at the same time as the 
service appointment if its possible to do so. And I hope Mr S will soon be able to have both 
a boiler service and updated system in the near future.
The role of this service isnt to punish businesses for their mistakes. We award what we feel 
is fair and reasonable. On this occasion I can see British Gas has offered Mr S £100 
compensation for his trouble and upset. And its apologised for the poor service he received 
on a number of occasions. I think thats the right outcome in the circumstances. And I wont 
be asking British Gas to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman