DRN-3195658
The complaint
Mrs J complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs J says TFS did not 
complete proportionate checks, and had it done so, it wouldve seen the loan was 
unaffordable to her.  
What happened
TFS approved Mrs J for a £6,000 loan in December 2016. The term of the loan was 60 
months, with repayments of £234.55.
Mrs J says this loan was unaffordable to her at the time it was approved by TFS. She says 
she was experiencing financial hardship; and this was supported by her credit file showing 
adverse information on it.
TFS disagreed with Mrs J complaint. It says it completed proportionate checks before 
approving the loan. TFS says it asked for details of Mrs Js income and expenses and 
verified this information with copies of pay slips. It says it also completed a credit search on 
Mrs J which did show adverse information. However; It says Mrs J provided a detailed 
explanation for this information; and as such it was satisfied it was reasonable to proceed 
with Mrs Js application. It also says Mrs J maintained her payments well. Overall TFS says 
it was aware of Mrs Js financial circumstances; but its searches showed the loan was still 
affordable to her. And on this basis its decision to lend was fair.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt TFS shouldve completed 
further checks. She felt had it done this it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to  
Mrs J.
TFS disagreed with the assessment and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mrs J. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs Js ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably. Sustainably in this instance means making payments without incurring financial 
difficulties such as having to borrow further or failing to meet other financial commitments in 
order to meet this repayment. 
TFS says it completed proportionate checks. It says it completed a detailed income and 
expenditure on Mrs J; which including verifying her income via payslips. It says it checked 
Mrs Js credit file; and whilst there was adverse information on it; Mrs J had given a plausible 
explanation for this. 
Ive considered TFSs arguments; and in this instance I agree with it. That is to say Im 
satisfied it completed proportionate checks. Looking through the information that has been 
provided I can see TFS verified Mrs Js income via payslips. These show her income was in 
line with the amount she had declared. It also completed an income and expenditure 
assessment to gain a better insight into Mrs Js financial commitments. And supported this 
with a search of Mrs Js credit file. This enabled TFS to have a decent understanding of   
Mrs Js financial position before it made its decision to lend. As such Im satisfied it has 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks.
However, with that being said; as TFS is aware even if proportionate checks were completed 
it still needed to make a fair decision to lend to Mrs J. And having reviewed all of the 
information that has been provided Im not satisfied it did.
Mrs Js credit file showed that she had a history of struggling to manage her credit 
commitments in the past. The credit file shows Mrs Js total debt was over £16,000; and had 
significant negative markers on it. In particular Mrs J had six unsettled defaults on her 
account. Notably she had recently had a credit card defaulted only two months prior to the 
application of this loan.
Looking through the credit file it is also notable that these defaulted balances had not been 
significantly reduced in the months after their application. This suggests that Mrs J was not 
in a position to reduce these defaults; and the recent registering of a default further suggests 
she was struggling to meet all of her commitments.
Outside of the defaults, the credit file also showed Mrs J had a number of issues on active 
accounts too. There were two unsecured loans which were both six months in arrears; as 
well as a hire purchase agreement which was two months in arrears. There was also a 
communications contract which was six months in arrears and a further unsecured loan one 
month in arrears. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs J was planning on using this loan to consolidate down some of her 
debts; Im not satisfied her credit file (and the other information TFS had) demonstrates that 
further lending wouldve been sustainable to her. Her credit history demonstrates that even 
when she borrows credit to help resolve debt issues that the balances continue to arise; and 
arrears re-occur. Im not persuaded the evidence TFS had demonstrated this loan would be 
enough to resolve Mrs Js financial issues; and it was more likely than not this loan would 
only add to her overall level of indebtedness. As such it acted unfairly in approving this loan.
Putting things right
To settle Mrs Js complaint TFS Loans Limited should do the following:Refund any interest and charges she paid as a result of this loan;
Pay Mrs J 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on her credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman