DRN-3516786
The complaint
Mr F complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited wouldnt meet his request for it to 
set out the full charges when he was considering transferring his investment portfolio to its 
platform.  
What happened
In January 2020, Mr F was considering moving his investments portfolio from his existing 
provider to AJ Bell. He made a request to receive information relating to charges as he 
wanted to conduct some analysis before making a decision to transfer.  
 
AJ Bell responded to the request and gave him a full list of its own charges and rates. But 
said it is an execution only service, so doesnt normally confirm fund manager charges as it 
is unable to conduct investment research on behalf of its investors. This was because fund 
manager charges can change and update regularly, and the fees a fund manager charges 
depends on the class of the fund available to the broker. But all of the required information to 
allow Mr F to conduct his own research could be located on its website. 
 
Mr F didnt accept the explanation and said AJ Bell had failed to acknowledge his concerns 
as a formal complaint. He said AJ Bell was causing delay and providing charges information 
is not investment research. Following this Mr F referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. 
  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt find that AJ Bell had done 
anything wrong. He said AJ Bell said it didnt offer the service Mr F requested and were 
unable to tell a business how to operate. He noted AJ Bell had offered Mr F direction 
on how to obtain the information he was seeking, and he found this was a fair and 
reasonable alternative. He also noted Mr Fs concerns AJ Bell was not considering the 
matter as a formal complaint. But explained that it is for this service to decide if a complaint 
can be considered by us or not, and in any case Mr F wasnt prevented from coming to us.  
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
final decision on his complaint. He provided further comments to support his complaint. In 
summary he said:  
AJ Bell refused to confirm how much charges are - and disclosing costs is not a service, 
it is a matter of basic information prior to agreeing a contract. 
When he was contemplating a move of funds from another platform, he wanted to make 
sure that he was paying less in charges, overall.  
If the charges at AJ Bell are lower than his current provider then he is out of pocket by 
the difference  so there is a potential loss. But he cant determine that because AJ Bell 
will not set out the charges in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F feels very strongly that AJ Bell have treated him unfairly and it should 
have helped him by providing the information he requested. However, based on the 
evidence I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Mr F was considering moving his investment portfolio from another platform to AJ Bell. So I 
can understand why he was seeking to establish full information about costs to see if it 
would be a viable option for him. I understand the precise information Mr F wants relates to 
fund management charges associated with the third-party funds that could be held on the 
platform, rather than AJ Bells own charges (which he was provided with). AJ Bell say Mr Fs 
request would involve it sourcing the information for him, and as an execution only provider 
is not something it can do. It has further clarified that it does not offer a service whereby it 
researches charges of fund providers for prospective clients. 
 
I accept Mr F was a perspective customer of AJ Bells as he was considering whether to 
transfer to his portfolio to its platform. But I havent seen anything to suggest AJ Bell 
advertised or told Mr F that it would provide the level of service he was looking for. Im not 
aware of any obligations AJ Bell had towards Mr F (as a prospective customer) that meant it 
must provide the specific information he was seeking in the format he asked for. I can see it 
did provide instructions to help Mr F obtain the information he was seeking. Also, it appears 
to be accepted there wasnt any form of contract entered into that meant AJ Bell had agreed 
to do something it later reneged on. 
 
I appreciate Mr F doesnt view obtaining the information he requested as providing a service. 
But equally I havent seen that AJ Bell gave Mr F any indication that it would assist in the 
way he wanted. While from a customer service perspective AJ Bell could have helped Mr F 
with his request differently - I cant say it had to or treated him unfairly by not fulfilling his 
precise requirements. And as mentioned above it did inform him where to find the 
information he was seeking.  
 
Having considered the circumstances, I havent found that AJ Bell have treated Mr F unfairly, 
so I dont require it to do anything.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman