DRN-3199430
The complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsburys Bank plc trading as Sainsburys Finance (Sainsburys) 
unfairly charged him  a balance transfer fee. And he is unhappy with its customer service. 
He would like an apology and the fee refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision our text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Ive seen a screen shot of Sainsburys credit card information online which states a 
balance transfer fee of  0% or 0.5% will apply depending on individual circumstances. 
So, I believe Mr A wouldve been aware he might be charged a  fee.
Ive also seen the summary box information for the credit card offer which  makes it 
clear a 0.5% balance transfer was part of the terms and conditions. I believe Mr A got 
this before signing up to the offer. But even if he didnt the general credit card 
information on the screen shot that I referred to above makes it clear there might be 
a balance transfer fee. So, I do believe Mr A was aware of this. And I havent seen 
any information to show Sainsburys made him an offer with no transfer fee.
Its unfortunate Sainsburys made a mistake in its final response letter about the term 
of  its offer (12 months not 18 months). But it  doesnt follow that a mistake could then 
have been made on the website  in relation to the balance transfer fee.
I appreciate Mr A isnt happy with the customer service he received in a phone all. I 
have listened to the call and I found the call handler to be courteous and helpful.
I believe Sainsburys fairly applied the balance transfer fee so I dont feel I can 
reasonably ask it to refund this as Mr A would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
