DRN-4048965
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse the money thats been lost to a 
scam.
Whats happened?
Miss B says that her mother, who Ill refer to as M, asked her to pay a bill for another family 
member and promised to pay her back. Miss B made the requested payment for £1,850 (the 
payment) and M has reimbursed her, but it turns out that the payment was made to a 
scammer who had contacted M pretending to be a family member requiring assistance.
Monzo has declined to reimburse the payment, so Miss B has asked this Service to consider 
a complaint against the bank.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, but Monzo didnt agree with their recommendation to 
reimburse the payment. So, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 10 March 2023. Ill set out my findings below.
There is no dispute that Miss B was involved in a scam, and the payment went to a 
fraudster. However, this complaint is brought by Miss B in her sole capacity. And Im not 
currently persuaded that Miss B has suffered a financial loss as a result of her involvement 
in the scam.
M fell victim to the scam  she asked Miss B to make the payment on her behalf and she 
has reimbursed Miss B as promised. So, it is M that has ultimately lost funds to the 
fraudsters, and M that is out of pocket because of the scam, not Miss B. Miss B and M are 
separate legal entities and, although I appreciate that the payment went from Miss Bs 
account to the fraudsters, and it was at this point that funds became irretrievable, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to tell Monzo to pay Miss B £1,850 when she isnt out of pocket by 
this amount.
The key consideration in the particular circumstances of this case is not when the point of 
loss occurred, but who has suffered the financial loss. So, whilst Ive taken on board all of 
the evidence and arguments provided, even if I were to be persuaded that Monzo has made 
an error here, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable to instruct the bank to 
reimburse the £1,850 that has been lost. The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to 
place customers in the position they would have been in but for the error taking place, and in 
this particular case, Miss B is already in that position as no losses were incurred by her as a 
result of the scam. It would not be reasonable for me to require Monzo to pay redress to a 
party who has suffered no actual financial losses. It is also not reasonable for me to ask 
Monzo to pay financial redress to someone on behalf of someone else.
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Miss B has found herself in. But Im not currently 
persuaded that she has suffered a financial loss here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Monzo didnt respond to my provisional decision.
In summary, Miss B reiterated that M has suffered a financial loss, and she said that M has 
not been able to raise her own or a joint fraud claim with Miss B, nor has she been advised 
to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new information or evidence relating to the payment or Miss 
Bs complaint against Monzo. So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in 
my provisional decision. 
I sympathise with the situation Miss B has found herself in. But it remains the case that she 
has not suffered a financial loss here. I do not consider that it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Monzo to pay Miss B £1,850 when she is not out of pocket by this amount, and Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to ask Monzo to pay Miss B financial 
redress on Ms behalf.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman