DRN-2804648
The complaint
Miss H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her 2020 
pre-authorisation request/claim under her pet insurance. My references to Red Sands 
include its agents.  
What happened
Miss H took out pet insurance for her dog, insured by Red Sands. The policy provides cover 
for a medical condition for 365 days from when the condition is first noted, subject to the 
policy terms and limits.
In May 2020 Miss H contacted Red Sands for pre-authorisation for treatment for her dogs 
right leg cruciate ligament rupture.
Red Sands declined the pre-authorisation/claim for two reasons:
1. it said Miss Hs dogs vet records showed the dogs cruciate problem started on 
30 June 2018 when she was seen by the vet for a stifle and luxating patella 
(dislocating kneecap) problem so cover for the condition ended on 29 June 2019. 
The 2018 was with the dogs left hind leg and the 2020 cruciate rupture was on her 
right hind leg. But the policy said that if Miss Hs dog had received treatment for a 
particular condition which appears in another part of the body at a later date, for 
example the other leg, then Red Sands considered it the same condition. This is 
known as a bilateral condition. Red Sands said there was a link between Miss Hs 
dogs 2018 and 2020 leg problems so the 365 days time limit for cover applied to the 
dogs right leg too and Miss Hs pre-authorisation request was outside the time limit
2. it said based on the vet evidence it could add a specific exclusion to the policy to 
exclude cover on all claims with respect to both stifles with effect from 22 February 
2019. Red Sands also used the exclusion to decline the claim. 
Miss H complained to us. She said her policy documents didnt show an exclusion for 
cruciate ligaments, and her dogs 2020 problem was with a different leg to 2018. Her vet had 
written to Red Sands saying the 2018 and 2020 problems werent linked but Red Sands 
didnt change its mind. She wants Red Sands to pay for the 2020 treatment which cost her 
about £1,700. She also said she had to borrow money from family to pay for the treatment 
privately and she found the whole situation with Red Sands stressful and upsetting.
Our investigator said Red Sands couldnt fairly apply and use the specific exclusion for 
claims for stifles to decline the claim and, subject to remaining terms of the policy, it should 
pay for treatment of the cruciate ligament rupture for 365 days from 5 May 2020. He also 
recommended Red Sands pay Miss H £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Red Sands disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said: 
the dog had treatment for her stifle and luxating patella in October 2016 which 
showed the stifle issues had previously been linked to the patella, and
it could also still decline the claim as the 2020 treatment fell outside of the 365 days 
period of cover from the onset of the bilateral condition.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I did a provisional decision to address all the reasons Red Sands declined Miss Hs 2020 
pre-authorisation request/claim for her dogs treatment. I explained why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim for either of 
the two reasons it relied on, and I dont think it did. 
Can Red Sands fairly add and apply the specific exclusion for cover on all claims with 
respect to both stifles with effect from 22 February 2019?
Miss Hs dogs vet records show she was first seen with problems with her legs in October 
2016 when shed cried out when jumping up. The vet records say that on examination the 
dog had very very severe bilateral luxating patella but not causing any pain. She was given 
medication. It wasnt until June 2018 that she was seen by the vet for lameness, although 
shed been to the vet for other issues in between.
On 30 June 2018 the vet records say the dog couldnt put weight on her left hind leg. The 
notes record the dog had pain on palpation of L stifle.and patellar tendon feels displaced 
OR has been told has luxating patella On 2 July 2018 tests confirmed the dog had luxating 
patella and the vet advised surgery on the left patella.
Miss H claimed for the treatment. Red Sands declined that 2018 claim as the luxating patella 
had first been seen by a vet in October 2016 and under the policy terms the condition was 
only covered for 365 days, which had passed.
Red Sands underwriting criteria shows that the exclusion it will apply for the condition of 
luxating patella is a specific exclusion with respect to both patellas. When Red Sands 
declined the 2018 claim it told Miss H it would add a specific exclusion on her policy for all 
claims with respect to both patellas with effect from 22nd February 2017 (the policy renewal 
date following the condition first being seen by a vet in October 2016.) Miss Hs subsequent 
policy schedules showed that exclusion, and other unrelated condition exclusions.
Although in 2018 Red Sands was fully aware of the dogs medical history it didnt at that point 
add a specific exclusion for claims relating to stifles. I accept that the June 2018 vet notes 
refer to pain in the stifle, however the patella is connected to the stifle and the more detailed 
examinations and tests show the left luxating patella was the problem. Theres no vet 
evidence at that point to show there was a wider problem with the stifle and no evidence that 
there was a problem with the dogs cruciate ligament in either leg.
I think the fact that Red Sands only added the exclusion for patellas in 2018 shows it 
believed luxating patella was the diagnosed condition. Its only when Miss H made a pre-
authorisation request in May 2020 that Red Sands referred to the 2018 vet history to add the 
specific exclusion for claims for stifle from that date, and I dont think thats fair.
Even if I thought there was vet evidence to show the stifle itself was a problem in 2018, and 
I dont, Red Sands failure to add the exclusion for stifles in 2018 meant Miss H wasnt given 
the opportunity to make an informed decision over whether the policy provided the cover she 
wanted when she renewed the policy.I dont think Red Sands fairly added the specific exclusion for claims in respect to both stifles 
with effect from 22 February 2019 so it couldnt fairly rely on that exclusion to decline 
Miss Hs 2020 pre-authorisation request/claim. Red Sands must also remove that specific 
exclusion as worded from the policy.
Can Red Sands fairly decline the 2020 pre-authorisation request/claim on the basis that it 
was linked to a condition for which cover had already expired?
The policy says a bilateral condition means any wellbeing issue that can happen on both 
sides of your pets body and that:
where a condition is affecting one body part of which your pet has two, one on each 
side of the body (e.g. ears, eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments) this will be considered a 
bilateral condition and when applying the benefit limit or an exclusion, bilateral 
conditions are considered as one condition.
Red Sands says that policy term means although the 2018 problem and treatment was on 
the dogs left leg the problem and treatment on her right leg in 2020 isnt covered.
In summary, Red Sands point is that cruciate ligament injury is a common stifle problem in 
dogs which can occur later in dogs where theyve previously had patella luxation surgery. 
So it says Miss Hs dogs 2020 cruciate ligament problem is linked to the patella luxation 
surgery in 2018 and the 365 days cover had already expired.
Red Sands isnt saying the two conditions are the same, it says there is a causal link. I dont 
think its reasonable for Red Sands to interpret the above policy term so broadly to include 
potentially linked conditions without making it much clearer in the policy terms.
Even if I thought the policy definition of condition enabled Red Sands to interpret condition 
to mean linked conditions, I would need to be satisfied its more likely than not that the two 
conditions were linked for Miss Hs dog, not just whether generally there can be a link.
Miss Hs vet wrote to Red Sands with his opinion that the conditions werent the same. He 
said:
(The dog) has had patella luxal symptoms on of the right hind leg for quite some 
time, without apparent symptoms. Shes now developed acute lameness in the leg 
and there is laxity in the joint from a torn cruciate ligament.
Although patella luxation and cruciate ligament injuries are often seen concurrently, 
no causality has been proven. So there is no proof that patella luxation causes 
cruciate ligament injuries. In my opinion this is therefore a different condition than the 
previously diagnosed patella luxation.
So Miss Hs vets evidence is that the two conditions are separate and in Miss Hs dog there 
is no causal link.
Red Sands sought its own vet advice and that vet disagrees with Miss Hs vet. She said:
Not only are these conditions seen concurrently, but there are very specific reasons 
why the patella luxation is believed to contribute to cruciate rupture. This was chronic
degenerative cruciate rupture with specifically no trauma or injury noted as having 
occurred. This happened with routine activity as would occur with degenerative 
disease. The luxation was described as very severe, so I assume grade 4. This group shows the most correlation with later cruciate rupture. Long term inflammation 
in the stifle leading to synovitis and then cruciate degeneration, as well as issues to 
do with alignment all very much apply here. The Policyholders vet is incorrect, there 
are plenty of papers corroborating cruciate degeneration with chronic patella 
luxation.
So Red Sands vets evidence isnt that cruciate ligament rupture and patella luxation are the 
same condition, but that the two conditions are linked.
Where there is conflicting vet evidence I have to weigh up which is more persuasive. 
Miss Hs vet saw the dog in 2020 and did the surgery. He has first-hand knowledge of the 
issues leading to diagnosis and treatment in this particular dog. Neither vet says the 2018 
and 2020 conditions are the same. And as Miss Hs vet has the first-hand knowledge Im 
more persuaded by his evidence that there is no causal link for the two separate conditions 
in Miss Hs dogs circumstances.
Overall, I dont think Red Sands fairly declined the 2020 pre-authorisation request/claim 
using the bilateral condition policy term.
As Im persuaded by Miss Hs vets evidence that the rupture of the cruciate ligament is a 
new and separate condition its fair for cover for that condition to run from the date the 
condition was first noted which was 5 May 2020.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Red Sands to cover treatment for rupture of the 
cruciate ligament for 365 days from 5 May 2020. As Miss H has already paid the vet 
Red Sands must refund the costs to her, subject to the policy limits and excess, plus interest 
as detailed below.
Red Sands underwriting guidance says that where a dog has cruciate ligament rupture it will 
place a specific exclusion on the policy for all claims with respect to both stifles with effect 
from the relevant date. So Red Sands can add that exclusion with the relevant date 
reflecting that it should give 365 days cover for the condition from 5 May 2020.
Compensation
As Red Sands declined Miss Hs 2020 pre-authorisation/claim she had to borrow money 
from her family to pay for her dogs treatment. Its clear from Miss Hs communications that 
shes been very been upset and stressed by Red Sands actions. I think £100 compensation 
is a reasonable amount to acknowledge her distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H agreed and Red Sands said it had no comments on my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss H agreed, and Red Sands said it had no comments on, my provisional decision Ive 
no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and 
these findings I uphold this complaint. I dont think Red Sands fairly declined the claim or 
fairly added the specific policy exclusion for claims in respect to both stifles with effect from 
22 February 2019.Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim plus interest as Ive detailed below, remove the exclusion and 
pay £100 compensation to Miss H for her distress and inconvenience  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Miss Hs claims for treatment for her dogs rupture of the cruciate ligament for 
365 days from 5 May 2020, subject to the policy limits and excess. As Miss H has 
already paid the vet interest* must be added at 8% simple from the date the vet was 
paid until the date of settlement, and
remove the specific policy exclusion for claims in respect to both stifles with effect 
from 22 February 2019, and
pay £100 compensation to Miss H for her distress and inconvenience.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman