DRN-3596412
The complaint
Mr D has complained about advice he received to invest in an unregulated investment 
called Stirling Mortimer. He used funds in an existing ISAs to make a direct investment in 
Stirling Mortimer via an ISA and also made an investment after switching pension funds 
into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mr D says the advice was provided by a 
representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter). The investment 
has failed and Mr D says that Quilter should pay him compensation for his losses.
What happened
Mr D says he was advised by someone called Mr C in 2006 after being referred to him by 
a colleague. He was looking at making changes to his pension arrangements at the time 
as he had held the same investments for a number of years.
Mr D says he met with Mr C at his office in Cardiff and that he understood that Mr C was 
an adviser with Quilter. Mr D says he was told that Stirling Mortimer, an off-plan property 
overseas development, was a low risk investment with developer and bank guarantees.
Mr D says that following the advice he made the following investments:
He consolidated some existing ISA holdings and used an ISA with Transact to 
invest approximately £61,000 into the Stirling Mortimer No. 2 fund. The 
investment took place in November 2006.
He switched his existing personal pensions to a Skandia SIPP and invested 
approximately £115,000 into the Stirling Mortimer No. 2 fund. The SIPP was 
opened in September 2006 and the investment in Stirling Mortimer was made a 
short time later in November 2006.
The property development was never completed and the Stirling Mortimer fund was 
placed into liquidation in 2016. So it looks like Mr D has suffered a substantial loss.
When Mr D found out that the fund had been liquidated, he submitted a claim to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) to recover some of his losses 
from Mr Cs firm  Ill call it CR LLP. However, his claim was rejected on the basis 
that the FSCS felt that Quilter was responsible for the advice.
Quilter (known at the time of the advice as Positive Solutions) was an independent 
financial adviser firm authorised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (later the 
Financial Conduct Authority, FCA). It gave advice through registered individuals (RIs) 
who were referred to as Partners. The Partners were self-employed agents of Quilter not 
employees. Nor were Partners appointed representatives under s.39 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000. Mr C was an RI for Quilter in 2006. He ceased to be an 
RI of Quilter in 2007.
After having his claim rejected by the FSCS, Mr D complained to Quilter. Quilter didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said that it had no record of the advice having been given by Mr 
C whilst he was its RI. Quilter also said that the complaint had been made too late 
under the regulatory rules.
One of our investigators looked at all the evidence and issued an assessment that said 
that, in his view, Mr D had complained too late. He said that Mr D had complained in 
August 2018, which was more than six years after the advice in 2006. The investigator 
also said that Mr D had complained more than three years after Mr D ought to have been 
aware of problems with the Stirling Mortimer investment. He said that Stirling Mortimer 
was intended to be a short two year investment and that Mr D would have received annual 
reports that highlighted problems with the investment and that the developer of the 
property had gone into administration in 2012. So he said that Mr D should have 
complained by 2015 at the latest.
Mr D responded to say that the value of the Stirling Mortimer investments had not gone 
down until 2016 and that he considered these as long term investments for his retirement. 
Mr D said that the first time hed become aware of any issues was when he received the 
update in 2016 about the liquidation of the Stirling Mortimer fund. So he said his complaint 
in 2018 was within three years of when he became aware that he had cause for complaint.
I looked at all the issues and then issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2022. I said the 
complaint was one that we had jurisdiction to consider and that it should be upheld. I invited 
further submissions from both parties. 
Mr D asked whether it would be fair to award an additional amount for the ISA fees he had 
incurred. He also confirmed that the ISA had been closed recently. 
However, Quilter said it had no submissions to add. In light of this, my findings on both 
jurisdiction and merits remain the same as in my provisional decision and I set these out 
again below.
I will address Mr Ds points in the redress section below. 
My findings
Jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this 
is a complaint that this service has jurisdiction to investigate.
There are two principal issues that need to be addressed: has the complaint been brought 
in time and, given that Mr C was an RI, is Quilter responsible for the acts complained 
about?
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The rules which govern the operation of our service are part of the regulators handbook. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) section sets out that we cant consider a complaint that 
has been made to the respondent business (or referred to us) more than:
Six years after the matter complained about; or (if later)
Three years after Mr D became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware, that he had cause for complaint.The acts being complained about are the advice and arrangements to make the Stirling 
Mortimer investments. Mr Ds complaint is that he was advised that the investments were 
low risk and backed by guarantees.
There is no documentary evidence about the advice or when exactly the advice was given. 
But Mr D says that the advice for both the ISA and SIPP investments were given at the same 
time in 2006. This is reflected in the available evidence too as the SIPP and Transact ISA 
application forms are dated 7 and 14 August 2006 respectively. So, I think its likely that the 
advice and arrangements for the investments took place in August 2006.
Mr D referred his complaint to Quilter on 6 August 2018. This is clearly more than six years 
of the acts hes complaining about. So, the crucial issue for me to decide is therefore 
whether the complaint was also made outside the second part of the time limit  i.e. whether 
it was made more than three years after Mr D knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he 
had cause to complain. Because the complaint was made on 6 August 2018, the question 
becomes whether he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he had cause to complain 
before 6 August 2015.
Quilter says that Mr D would have known about issues with the investments from the annual 
statements he recieved from the SIPP operator. Quilter says these statements would have 
alerted Mr D to problems with the fund values.
The SIPP operator was intially Skandia, but then subsequently, in 2010, Mr D moved his 
SIPP to Curtis Banks. And it appears that when Mr Ds pension was moved to Curtis Banks, 
the investment was held within an online portal based wrapper with a company called 
Ascentric. The ISA operator was Transact throughout. Ive looked at all the available 
evidence about the fund values and statements that Mr D would have recieved about the 
investments. These show the following:
Year Transact value for 
Stirling Mortimer 
investmentSIPP value for Stirling 
Mortimer
2006 £61,372 £115,000
2007 £61,167
July 2008 £70,851
October 2008 £71,592
April 2009 £82,972
April 2009 £82,972
October 2009 £79,288
Undated (£122,000 Ascentric refers to 
fund being suspended)
March 2010 £79,288
May 2010 £75,611
21 June 2010 £136,823
April 2009 £82,972
October 2009 £79,288
October 2010 £72,929
October 2011 £71,316
May 2012 £73,411October 2012 £67,385
February 2013 £69,198 £131,228
October 2013 £64,506
April 2014 £64,506
October 2014 £64,506 (delisted)
April 2015 £64,544
September 2016 £111,615
We do not have a complete copy of the SIPP statements throughout the years. But based 
on what we do have, in conjunction with the more complete evidence from Transact, it 
appears that the Stirling Mortimer investments made by Mr D had gone up in value until 
2010 but then went down. However, they had not lost significant value from the sums 
invested until some point after September 2016.
Some of the statements had indicated, first that the funds had been delisted and, 
secondly, that they were suspended. I dont think those annotations of themselves, 
coupled with the current values indicated, should necessarily have been viewed 
negatively. Its possible for an investment to be delisted and suspended and still deliver a 
profit or at least a return of all or most of the capital investment. I think it would be 
reasonable for an investor such as Mr D to presume from the statements there was still 
an underlying value in the investment.
So, based what Ive seen, I dont think the statements that Mr D received about the Stirling 
Mortimer investments ought to have given Mr D reason to think that the advice hed 
received was wrong or unsuitable.
The investigator who initially considered the case said that Mr D entered these 
investments on the basis that they were short two year investments. The investigator also 
said that Mr D would have received annual reports from Stirling Mortimer in 2012 
highlighting problems with the investment, including that the developer had gone into 
liquidation. He said that these factors should have made Mr D aware that he had cause for 
complaint about the advice he received more than three years before he did.
However, my view is different. First, there is no record of the advice given and the sales 
material provided to Mr D in 2006. So I cant be sure that he was even aware of when the 
investments should have been redeemed. In any event, I accept what Mr D has told us 
about not being overly concerned about the fact that the investments were going on for 
longer than initially expected. He was not aware that he had lost his initial capital before 
2016 and thought that pension and property investments could restrict withdrawals for long 
periods. And he didnt intend to retire for some time.
By 2015, Mr D was 63 years old and so would have been looking more closely at his 
investments at around this time. But I think it would have been reasonable for him to rely on 
the SIPP and Transact statements. As Ive said above, these didnt highlight any obvious 
concerns about the advice he had received.
Secondly, Ive made extensive enquiries about what updates and reports Mr D would have 
been sent about the investments over the years. Having done so, Im not satisfied that I can 
safely conclude that Mr D was sent any updates from the investment. Curtis Banks has told 
us that, as the SIPP investment was held in the Ascentric platform, it did not receive or send 
any updates or reports to Mr D. Ascentric has in turn told us that any information about the 
investment would have been available to Mr Ds adviser  from 2010 onwards this was a firm called Portland Wealth. Portland Wealth has told us that it did not send any updates to Mr D 
as they believed he was being updated by Transact.
Similarly, Ive made enquiries with Transact about any updates it would have provided to Mr 
D about his ISA investment in Stirling Mortimer. Again, Ive not seen any compelling 
evidence that Mr D was sent anything about the Stirling Mortimer investment in the form of 
updates and reports. It has sent us some investment updates, but most of these post-date 
August 2015 and some are about completely different Stirling Mortimer funds. So Im not 
convinced that relevant updates were sent to Mr D by Transact.
Mr D has consistently told us he didnt receive any updates. Significantly, Mr D has also 
provided us with an email exchange he had with the Stirling Mortimer fund administrator in 
October 2016 which I think supports Mr Ds assertion. In the exchange, Mr D says that hed 
not received updates about the investment and wanted to be kept in the loop. The 
administrator explains that this was probably because the updates were being sent to the 
SIPP operators and other administrators. The fund administrator then sends Mr D an update 
about the Stirling Mortimer investment dated October 2016 which says that the fund would 
be put into liquidation.
On receiving the update in October 2016, I think Mr D ought reasonably to have known that 
he had received unsuitable advice in that Stirling Mortimer was not low risk or backed by 
guarantees - and that he had cause for complaint. Mr D complained to Quilter in August 
2018. That is within three years of October 2016. Therefore, my conclusion is that Mr D has 
made his complaint within our time limits.
Is Quilter responsible (under our rules) for the acts being complained about?
Under our rules, Quilter can only be responsible for certain types of activity. The DISP rules 
set out that we can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an 
act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, (including 
regulated activities), or any ancillary activities carried on by the firm in connection with those 
activities, (DISP2.3.1R). And our rules also say that we can only look at complaints about 
acts or omissions of an agent of a firm where the firm has accepted responsibility for those 
acts (DISP 2.3.3G).
There is no written record of the advice that Mr D says he was given. But, Im satisfied that 
he was indeed given advice about the pension switch and investments in Stirling Mortimer. 
Therefore, the complaint involves regulated activities.
But who carried out these activities?
Mr D says he was advised by Mr C. Mr Cs details appear on the statements from Transact 
and Skandia from 2006 as Mr Ds adviser. Mr Cs details appear on the Transact application 
too. But the details of someone called Mr R appear on the SIPP application form and some 
of the SIPP correspondence from 2006. Mr R was another RI of Quilter at the time. Based 
on what Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr C advised Mr D on the switch to the SIPP and the 
Stirling Mortimer investments and Mr R carried out some of the arrangements for the SIPP.
Mr C and Mr R worked with one another and together operated a separate advisory 
business - CR LLP. I have seen no evidence to suggest that there has ever been any 
contractual relationship of between CR LLP and Quilter. In particular, CR LLP has never 
been an agent, appointed representative, or RI of Quilter. Quilter had contractual 
relationships with Mr C and Mr R individually, but it did not have contractual relationships 
with their limited liability partnership.So, whilst Im satisfied that Mr C and Mr R were involved in giving Mr D advice and making 
arrangements for the SIPP and ISA, I also need to consider whether they were acting on 
behalf of Quilter or whether they were acting in a different capacity - unrelated to their roles 
as RIs of Quilter for the SIPP and ISA and the subsequent investments in Stirling Mortimer.
Having considered the evidence, I think they were likely acting on behalf of Quilter because:
Mr C signed the Transact application on 14 August 2006 as a Quilter adviser.
Mr R signed the SIPP application form dated 7 August 2006 as a Quilter adviser.
The statements for both the SIPP and Transact ISA list Mr C of Quilter as the 
adviser in 2006-2007.
Mr D has consistently told us that he believed he was dealing with Mr C as a 
Quilter adviser.
A Sophisticated Investor certificate was sent to Transact in November 2006. 
This is certified by Mr C as an authorised person for Quilter. Ive noted that this 
was sent under cover of a letter on CR LLP letterhead. But the letter has a footer 
that says that CR LLP is a trading style of Quilter. As Ive made clear above, CR 
LLP was not a trading style of Quilter. So it appears that Mr C and Mr R may have 
been using incorrect letterhead. Nevertheless, I think this still shows that Mr C was 
purporting to act for Quilter at the time.
A transfer of servicing request was sent to Transact by CR LLP in 2008. This 
shows that CR LLP cant have been the advisers on the account before this time.
So, I think Mr C and Mr R were purporting to act on behalf of Quilter when advising 
and making arrangements for Mr D in 2006.
Both Mr C and Mr R were RIs of Quilter. However, Quilter isnt responsible for everything 
that its RIs do. Our rules say that we can only look at complaints about acts or omissions 
by agents (in this case RIs) for which the firm has accepted responsibility (DISP 2.3.3G).
So another issue I need to decide is whether the advice and arrangements given and 
made by Mr C and Mr R are acts for which Quilter accepted responsibility. If not, then our 
service wont have jurisdiction to consider this complaint against Quilter.
What does the law say about this?
Relationships like the one between Quilter and Mr C and Mr R require an analysis of 
agency law. Agency is where one party (the principal  here Quilter) allows another party 
(the agent
 here Mr C and Mr R) to act on its behalf in such a way that affects its legal relationship 
with third parties. An agent may have actual authority, where the principal has expressly or 
impliedly given its assent to the agent that it may act on its behalf. Or the agent may have 
apparent authority, where the principal has made a representation to a third party that the 
agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party has relied on this representation.
There are separate express agreements between Quilter and Mr C and Mr R. Both are 
essentially on the same terms. The agreements set out that they must account to Quilter 
for all business and only advise on investments that it had pre-approved. There is also a 
general point in agency of this type that the agent is required to act in the principals best interests.
Neither Mr C nor Mr R appear to have done any of these things in this case. Stirling 
Mortimer was not an approved investmentsand they dont appear to have notified Quilter 
about what they were doing either. So they were not acting in accordance with the actual 
authority they had been given. So, I cant conclude that Quilter accepted responsibility for 
acts complained about by Mr D by way of actual authority.
That is not however the end of the matter because there is also agency based on apparent 
authority. The essence of apparent authority is not concerned with what was actually agreed 
between the parties (for example by way of the agency agreement), but rather, how the 
relationship between those parties appeared to third parties. In this complaint, Im concerned 
with how the relationship appeared to Mr D.
Apparent authority arises when the principal represents to third parties through words or 
conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably 
relies upon that representation. The case law makes it clear that whether a claimant has 
relied on a representation is dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So 
here, I must consider whether, on the facts of this individual case:
Quilter made a representation to Mr D that Mr C and Mr R had Quilters 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains 
about; and
Mr D reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he 
now complains about.
Did Quilter represent to Mr D that Mr C had the relevant authority?
I think Quilter placed Mr C and Mr R in a position which would, in the outside world, 
generally be regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr D complains about. I 
say this for the following reasons. Some of these interrelate.
Quilter held itself out as an independent financial adviser firm that gave advice 
and offered products from the whole of the market after assessing a clients 
needs. No information was provided to clients or potential clients about its agents 
 such as Mr C and Mr R - being authorised in relation to approved products only.
Quilter authorised Mr C to give investment advice on its behalf and Mr C was 
held out by it as authorised to give investment advice on its behalf. Quilter 
arranged for Mr C to appear on the regulators register in respect of Quilter. And 
Mr C was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 - which relates to 
investment advice - at the time of the disputed advice.
It was in Quilters interest for the general public, including Mr D, to understand 
that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. Im 
satisfied that Quilter intended Mr D to act on its representation that Mr C was its 
financial adviser.
The provision of financial advice was a key part of Quilter business. It said in its 
terms of business that its Partners would give impartial, independent financial 
advice. I dont see how Quilter could have carried out its business activities at all if 
the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr C and Mr R as 
having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Quilter.Its not clear that Mr D was given a terms of business agreement in respect of 
the disputed advice. But if he was, these would have shown that Mr C and Mr R 
could advise on and arrange investments and set up SIPPs for Quilter customers. 
None of these activities would be unexpected for an IFA firm. They are all the type 
of activity that IFAs are usually authorised to do.
The terms of business agreement would not have shown any restrictions on 
Mr C and Mr Rs authority to give advice on transferring existing pensions, 
setting up a SIPP or using only certain investments. So, for example, Mr D 
would not know that an adviser should only recommend approved investments, 
should obtain clearance from Quilter before giving certain types of advice and 
should present the advice in certain ways.
The application forms for the SIPP and ISA names Quilter as Mr Ds 
investment adviser. I accept that the forms were completed by Mr C and/or Mr 
R, and not by Quilter. But I consider that in appointing Mr C and Mr R as RIs, 
Quilter put them in the position in which they could tell product providers that 
they were indeed Quilter financial advisers. If product providers had checked 
the FSA Register, they would have seen that Mr C and Mr R did indeed appear 
as approved by the FSA to carry out the controlled function of investment advice 
on behalf of Quilter.
So I think that all of these points taken together mean that Quilter did represent to Mr D 
that Mr C was authorised to give the advice he gave to Mr D and make the arrangements 
he did.
Did Mr D reasonably rely on Quilter representation?
I think its important to reiterate that the evidence we have shows that Mr C presented 
himself to Mr D as a Quilter adviser. And Mr D has confirmed to us that he believed Mr C 
to be acting for Quilter at all times.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr D knew or should reasonably have known 
that Mr C was acting in any capacity other than a Quilter adviser. And further, Ive seen 
no evidence that Mr D would have proceeded with the pension switch and investment if 
he had any inkling that Mr C was not acting with regulatory authority  which is what Mr C 
would have been doing if hed given the advice and made arrangements without using 
his Quilter hat.
I note that Mr D initially made a claim to the FSCS about CR LLP before making this 
complaint to Quilter. But I think this suggests some confusion about who to complain to 
several years after the advice was first given, during which period at least three different 
firms were involved in advising Mr D  Quilter, CR LLP and Portland Wealth. I dont think 
this significantly undermines his assertion now that he believed that Mr C was operating 
as a Quilter adviser when giving the advice in 2006 - especially when this is consistent 
with the application and statement documents Ive noted above.
So, on balance, I think its likely that Mr D proceeded on the basis that Mr C was acting 
in every respect as the agent of Quilter with authority from Quilter so to act. In other 
words, Mr D reasonably relied on Quilter representation that Mr C was authorised to 
give the investment advice he gave to Mr D.
It is therefore my finding that Quilter is responsible for the advice Mr D complains about and that we can consider his complaint. So, I will deal with the merits of Mr Ds complaint 
below.
What Ive decided on merits and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In giving advice to Mr D, Mr C ought to have made a recommendation that was 
consistent with his investment objectives, which ought to have been assessed by 
reference to his personal and financial circumstances. He should have carried out a fact 
find of his circumstances and investment experience and given a written 
recommendation with reasons. It doesnt appear he did this any of this before 
recommending the pension switch and investments in Stirling Mortimer via the ISA and 
SIPP.
Stirling Mortimer appears to be an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). 
UCIS like Stirling Mortimer are high risk as theyre based overseas, often subject to 
higher degrees of market volatility and unregulated and so investors have no access to 
the FSCS.
Under the rules at the time, UCIS could be promoted to individuals who were certified as 
Sophisticated Investors. Mr D signed a sophisticated investor certificate, prepared for 
him by Mr C, for the Transact investment. However, I dont know whether the 
requirements and implications of this were explained to Mr D. Ive also seen no evidence 
that Mr D was in fact a sophisticated investor. We know from his claim to the FSCS that 
his circumstances at the time of the advice were that he had:
£10,000 in cash/savings.
Just over £60,000 in an ISA.
Property worth around £420,000.
A pension fund of around £300,000.
No other investments  including unregulated investments.
Based on this, I think its unlikely that Mr D was a sophisticated investor.
In any event, regardless of whether Stirling Mortimer could have been promoted to Mr D, 
any advice Mr C gave would still have needed to be suitable advice. Mr D was 55 years 
old and says he had a low to medium attitude to investment risk. Based on Mr Ds 
circumstances (including his assets and investment experience), I cant see how investing 
such a large proportion of his pension and all of his ISA investments into a high risk 
investment like Stirling Mortimer could be regarded as suitable.
As such, I think the advice to switch Mr Ds pensions to a SIPP and invest in 
Stirling Mortimer as well as to make a direct investment via a Transact ISA was 
not suitable.
Im aware that different firms that are unconnected to Quilter later became advisers to Mr 
D in respect of the ISA and SIPP. However, Ive seen no evidence that there was ever a 
secondary market for the Stirling Mortimer investment. So I dont think Mr D could have sold the investments at any point if he was later advised that the investment was 
unsuitable by other parties. And I dont think there was realistically any opportunity for 
Mr D to mitigate his position after placing the investments.
As a result, I think Quilter should compensate Mr D.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Mr D has confirmed that th SIPP still exists, but the ISA account was recently closed. 
So I have adjusted the redress benchmark end date to reflect the closure of the ISA.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Quilter must: 
For the pension investment:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortmer (in 
SIPP)Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. Quilter should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Quilter pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Quilter is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Quilter may require that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay 
Quilter any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan.
If Quilter chooses to limit compensation to our award limit, the undertaking should only apply 
to any amounts received once Mr D has been fully compensated in line with this decision.
Quilter will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any additional sum that Mr D paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end.
If Mr D wishes to but is unable to close his SIPP because the Stirling Mortimer investment 
cant be removed (which is possible because of ongoing uncertainly surrounding the Stirling 
Mortimer investment) to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that Quilter pays Mr D 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the fee in 
the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
For the ISA investment:
To compensate Mr D fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Quilter should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortimer in 
ISANo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to be 
held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr D agrees to Quilter taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Quilter to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr D that he repays to Quilter any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future. Although, as above, if Quilter chooses to limit compensation to our award limit, the undertaking should only apply to any amounts received 
once Mr D has been fully compensated in line with this decision.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr D paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Mr D has asked whether the fees he incurred when closing the ISA account last year can 
also be compensated. These appear to be the fees requested by the operator for operating 
the ISA account over the years. Having considered this, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to do so. I think M D would have invested differently if hed recieved suitable 
advice. He would have incurred some fees in doing so. Given the passage of time, its 
difficult to know what these would have been and whether an investment wrapper would 
have been used and how much such a wrapper would have cost. Given this, I dont make 
any further award for the ISA fees.
In respect of both the Pension and ISA investment:
Why is the above remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr D would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained 
from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Quilter should also pay Mr D a total of £300 for the distress caused to him by the unsuitable 
advice he received.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that 
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum 
of £150,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set 
out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited pays Mr D the 
balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman