The complaint
X complains that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly applied bank charges to their 
current account. 
What happened
X has a current account with Nationwide. A variety of bank charges were applied to the 
account in 2018 and X complained about this explaining they were in financial difficulties. 
Nationwide decided to refund the charges as a gesture of goodwill but made it clear there 
were no guarantees it would make further refunds. It also suggested X seek debt advice 
from the Citizens Advice Bureau.
Further bank charges were applied to the account in 2019 and X complained to Nationwide 
again. It agreed to waive some pending charges but declined a further refund saying that the 
Supreme Court had issued a ruling saying bank charges couldnt be challenged on the basis 
they are too high or unfair.
X didn't think this was fair as they say theyve been experiencing financial difficulties and the 
charges have made the situation worse. So theyve brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the evidence and circumstances of the complaint. She 
confirmed the Supreme Court ruling from 2009. She said that the charges had been applied 
in line with the conditions of the account and therefore concluded they hadnt been applied 
unfairly. She was also satisfied that Nationwide had treated Xs financial circumstances 
positively and sympathetically which is what it was required to do. So she didnt ask 
Nationwide to do anymore.
X didnt think this was fair and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reason. I know X will be disappointed, so Ill explain my reasoning.
Im sorry to hear of X's financial circumstances and how theyve impacted them. My role 
here though is to consider the evidence fairly and impartially to decide if Nationwide has 
acted unfairly, so that may mean my decision sounds a little matter-of-fact.
Account Charges
DRN-1191513The Supreme Court has considered the issue of current account charges. In November 2009 
it made it clear that bank charges couldnt be challenged on the basis they were too high or 
unfair. In other words, Nationwide is entitled to apply charges as long as they were applied in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
In this case, having carefully considered X's account statements, Im satisfied the charges 
have been applied in line with the account terms and conditions. Because of this Im satisfied 
Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly in applying them.
Financial Difficulties
Financial businesses are required to treat people in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. In this case, when X complained to Nationwide in 2018, it agreed to refund 
12 months of bank charges and waive some further pending charges. This was done as a 
gesture of goodwill and to help X to break the cycle of charges. It also suggested they seek 
debt advice from the Citizens Advice Bureau to help with their financial circumstances.
Following X's further complaint in 2019, Nationwide again agreed to waive some charges 
that were pending but not yet applied to the account. I acknowledge it did decline a refund of 
charges already applied but for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont consider it acted 
unfairly when it did this.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide did enough to treat Xs financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically and so I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman