DRN-3586690
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited held him liable for transactions that he says he didnt 
make, and unfairly registered a marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Hed like 
the transactions refunded and the CIFAS marker removed.
What happened
Mr A had a credit card account with MBNA. In December 2018 he let MBNA know he didnt 
recognise a number of transactions on his account, using his card (Card 1). These included 
payments made using contactless, chip and PIN, and using online details. MBNA refunded 
the transactions and issued Mr A with a new card (Card 2).
Shortly after Mr A contacted MBNA to say he didnt recognise another set of transactions, to 
a hotel, on the second card. He said hed moved address before Card 2 was sent, so hadnt 
received it. 
This time MBNA declined to refund these transactions, as they found that several bookings 
had been made using Mr As name and contact details. They also re-reviewed the 
transactions on Card 1. After investigation they found that the hotel booking, as well as a 
booking for a haircut, were made using Mr As contact details. They also decided Mr As 
story had been inconsistent. They felt they couldnt safely conclude the transactions were 
carried out without Mr As knowledge or consent. They took the decision to hold Mr A liable 
for all the transactions, including those theyd previously refunded. 
MBNA also recorded a marker against him with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS, 
because they felt his claims were a misuse of facility.
Mr A complained to MBNA about the decision to hold him liable for the transactions. They 
issued their final response in February 2019, reaffirming why theyd decided to hold Mr A 
liable for the transactions. The response gave Mr A six months to refer the complaint to our 
service, in line with the rules our service operates. It said if Mr A didnt refer the complaint in 
time, they would not consent to our service looking into the complaint. Mr A responded to 
MBNA, but they referred him back to the final response letter. 
In 2020 Mr A discovered the marker MBNA had recorded with CIFAS and complained to 
MBNA. The bank issued their response in January 2020 saying that as they believe Mr A 
had made false claims, then the marker had been added correctly and in-line with their 
processes. 
Unhappy with this answer Mr A referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Firstly, she said that Mr A had referred his 
complaint about the decision to hold him liable for the transactions to our service outside the 
six month time limit set out by our rules. But she said we could consider the complaint about 
the CIFAS marker as this was referred in time. This was accepted by both parties.
The investigator felt that MBNA hadnt done anything wrong by recording the CIFAS marker. 
She said the bar for recording a marker with CIFAS was high but based on the information 
available they there was enough basis for MBNA to record the marker. 
Mr A disagreed and asked that the case be looked at by an ombudsman. Through a 
representative he raised additional points, saying that MBNAs recording of the CIFAS 
marker was based on gathering evidence to support their assumptions  about Mr As 
income, and his location when transactions were being made; and the way a typical 
fraudster may operate. 
The investigator put this to MBNA, but they didnt feel this changed anything. They felt that 
the majority of the transactions were made using the physical cards, and there didnt seem 
to be a reasonable explanation of how a fraudster would get hold of both cards, as well as 
Mr As PIN. A fraudster would also have needed to access Mr As computer on at least two 
occasions. They couldnt see a reason a fraudster would use Mr As name and contact 
details when making bookings. They felt Mr As testimony hadnt been consistent. So, they 
felt they hadnt been unfair when adding the CIFAS marker.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. Having 
reviewed the evidence I agreed with the outcome the investigator had reached, but wanted 
to expand upon the reasoning and give both parties a chance to respond. I issued my 
provisional decision, which said:
For claritys sake, it has been accepted by both parties that Mr A didnt refer his complaint 
about the decision to hold him liable for the transactions within the six months time limit set 
out in the rules that govern our service  the response was sent on 15 February 2019, so 
Mr A would have needed to contact us about this before 15 August 2019. But the first 
contact we received about these transactions wasnt until December 2019.
As this was referred out of time, and I dont see there are any exceptional circumstances that 
would have prevented Mr A from contacting our service, Im satisfied that our service doesnt 
have the power to consider this complaint. Therefore, this decision doesnt consider MBNAs 
original decision to hold Mr A liable for the transactions.
However, the complaint about the CIFAS marker was referred to our service on time. And I 
recognise that at the heart of this complaint is the same dispute over whether the 
transactions in dispute were authorised. So, part of my consideration will have to be what I 
think more likely than not happened to Mr As cards.
Both parties seem to be aware of the principles that CIFAS set out for reporting a marker to 
them, so I dont need to repeat them in full here. In summary there needs to be clear 
evidence that fraud or financial crime either took place or was attempted. The evidence 
needs to be clear and rigorous and go beyond simple suspicion.
In the context of Mr As complaint, MBNA have applied the marker because they believe 
Mr A knowingly made false claims of fraud on his credit cards. If this is the case, then this 
would ordinarily be enough for a CIFAS marker to be recorded. The key question for me to 
consider if whether MBNA have enough evidence to show that its more likely than not Mr A 
carried out the transactions himself or allowed someone else to do so. 
I dont see how it would be possible for someone unknown to Mr A to have carried out the 
transactions in dispute. A booking was made using the details from Card 1 but paid for using 
the physical Card 2. This shows us that whoever was making the transactions was in 
possession of both cards. It would be incredibly unlikely that a person unknown to Mr A would be able to steal Card 1 
without Mr A noticing, and then know to intercept and use Card 2. We also know the 
bookings were made using Mr As real contact details  which a thief wouldnt have been 
able to find out from a credit card alone.
Considering all the evidence available leads me to the conclusion that it was either Mr A 
carrying out the transactions, or someone acting with his authorisation. There are a number 
of factors that lead me to this.
I can see from the authorisation records that several transactions authorised with the chip 
being read and the PIN being entered  across both Card 1 and Card 2. There doesnt seem 
to be a clear way someone other than Mr A would come to know the PIN. Theres no record 
of PIN reminders being sent. And theres no indication that Mr A had allowed anyone else to 
use the card and PIN previously. The last undisputed use of Card 1 by Mr A was several 
months beforehand  so it would seem unlikely that someone would have observed Mr A 
enter his PIN, then wait so long to steal the card. So, this suggests to me it was likely Mr A 
making these transactions.
There are also no attempts to use either card after Mr A reported them missing, which 
suggests whoever had the card knew they would not work anymore. 
Having reviewed the call recordings between Mr and MBNA I note that when Mr A calls to 
report the transaction on Card 2, to the hotel, he confirms he has received the replacement 
card and has it on him. When MBNA inform him that theyve contacted the hotel and the 
guests are currently staying there, he says he has to make some calls. This seems like an 
unusual reaction if he was completely unaware of any use of his card.
Its only two days later he calls MBNA to say he hadnt received the card, and he was 
thinking of a different credit card he had. But if you had been the victim of a card theft, I think 
it likely you would be reasonably aware of that particular account and know there is a 
replacement card on the way. There is inconsistency in what Mr A has told MBNA.
Its also in this call that he tells MBNA he has moved address. But I also note that the 
address he says he has left, and where Card 2 was sent, is the same address Mr A provided 
to our service when he set up his complaint. This would strongly suggest he still has access 
to this address and could have received the card there.
Ive considered what Mr A, through his representatives, has said about his location when 
transactions were made, but this still wouldnt adequately explain how someone else had 
access to his card and PIN. I also acknowledge what hes said about MBNAs assumptions 
about his financial standing, and the actions of a typical fraudster. But these assumptions 
havent played a part in me drawing my conclusions.
Based on the evidence available, I think it more likely than not the transactions in dispute 
were carried out either by Mr A or someone acting with his authorisation. Im satisfied then 
that when he reported them as unauthorised to MBNA, he would have been aware this 
wasnt correct. On that basis I think MBNA have enough information to meet the burden of 
proof to record a misuse of facility marker with CIFAS.
I said I wasnt minded to direct MBNA to do anything further. MBNA didnt respond or 
provide anything further. Mr A, through his representatives, responded to say, in summary:
That it didnt appear the points that were made on Mr As behalf were considered, or 
that MBNAs position was fully scrutinised.There was no reference to MBNA being asked to provide evidence of when the cards 
were sent out, and when they were activated. 
The decision erroneously creates a lower standard of proof for MBNA to record a 
CIFAS marker  the civil standard of more likely than not. When the standard for 
recording a marker with CIFAS is higher, in that the member must have evidence 
strong enough that they could confidently report it to the police.
MBNAs position is undermined by the fact they initially accepted Mr As account 
around the transaction on Card 1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont see that MBNA have been unfair in registering a marker 
against Mr A with CIFAS.
Ive read and considered all of submissions on Mr As behalf regarding his complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the fair and reasonable outcome.
Neither party has objected to my finding on our jurisdiction, so this decision is solely about 
the CIFAS marker, and whether there is clear evidence that Mr A was involved in fraud or 
financial crime. In this complaint this is whether Mr A knowingly made false claims of fraud 
on his credit card.
Im still satisfied its likely Mr A either made the transactions himself or allowed someone 
else to do so. As Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision the standard for 
recording a marker with CIFAS is higher than the civil standard of more likely than not, 
which was referenced in the provisional decision. It is that the evidence should be clear and 
rigorous enough that the CIFAS member could confidently report the matter to the police. 
I accept the wording in the provisional decision was unclear on this point. To clarify, Im 
satisfied that MBNA hold enough information to meet the standards set out by CIFAS  that 
when Mr A reported the transactions are fraudulent, he did so in the knowledge that they 
werent. There are a number of reasons that lead me to this conclusion:
We know whoever carried out the transactions had possession of both cards  
bookings made using the details of Card 1 were then paid for using Card 2. This 
means its incredibly unlikely to be a random thief, or someone unknown to Mr A.
There isnt a reasonable explanation of how somebody could have got hold of both 
Card 1 and Card 2 and come to have known Mr As PIN. There were no PIN 
reminders sent out when Card 2 was ordered. And the previous legitimate use of the 
PIN was months before the disputed transactions, so its incredibly unlikely someone 
would oversee his PIN and then wait months to steal the card. Mr A hasnt 
commented on this point or given any indication that he had given his card and PIN 
to anyone else to use.
Card 2 was sent to an address Mr A told MBNA he no longer had access to, so 
couldnt have received the card. But this is the correspondence address he gave to 
our service when asking us to look into his complaint. This suggests to me he did still have access to that address. And in his initial reporting call for the disputes on Card 2 
Mr A confirms hed received the card and had it on him. He only later changes this to 
say hed never received it and hasnt offered an explanation on this point.
Neither card was used, or attempted to be used, after Mr A reported them missing. 
This strongly suggests whoever had them knew theyd been cancelled and wouldnt 
work  which in this case can only be Mr A or someone close to him. 
The response to the provisional decision on behalf of Mr A hasnt changed my thinking on 
any of these points. In the absence of any other plausible explanation, Im satisfied that the 
evidence MBNA hold is clear, relevant and rigorous enough to meet the CIFAS standard of 
proof. So, I dont consider it unreasonable for MBNA to record a marker against Mr A with 
CIFAS.
Mr As representatives have asked why no evidence of the activation of the cards has been 
provided by MBNA. MBNA have commented that Card 2 would not have required activation 
as they didnt know of any additional risk factors such as a shared mailbox. In any case, 
whether the card was activated would not have any bearing on the outcome, as the crux of 
the issue is whether the transactions were made by Mr A, or someone he had authorised to 
do so. And for the reasons explained above, this is the only plausible explanation of how 
they were made.
I also dont consider that MBNA changed their position on the disputed transaction on Card 1 
to be unfair or unreasonable. Financial institutions are entitled to review their decisions, 
especially after new evidence becomes available to them. I cant see this as particularly 
unusual or weakens MBNAs position. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached broadly 
the same conclusions they did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman