DRN-3313999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are not happy with the service received from Fairmead Insurance Limited, 
trading as Legal & General, after they made a claim for repair of a ring under their home 
insurance policy. They say the ring wasnt repaired adequately and have been told they 
need to open a new claim in order to fix it. 
What happened
Mr & Mrs R have home insurance with Fairmead and they made a claim for accidental 
damage for Mrs Rs engagement ring. 
Mr and Mrs R say the ring was repaired by a jeweller chosen by Fairmead. They say they 
expressed their concerns that since the ring was a non-standard setting, Fairmeads 
jewellers may not be able to set the stone correctly. 
Mr and Mrs R say when the ring was returned the repair was substandard. They say the 
stone was set lower than it should have been which changed the look and feel of the ring 
significantly. And so the ring was returned for the setting to be reworked. 
Mr and Mrs R say the ring was returned to them a second time and had the same issue as 
previously. However since Mrs R had been without her ring for some time and because she 
had lost faith in the jeweller used by the insurer she kept the ring as it was. 
Mr and Mrs R say some time later the setting failed and one of the claws pulled back. This 
left a sharp edge and the diamond was vulnerable. They say they contacted Fairmead to let 
it know. Mr and Mrs R say they were told to return the ring to the jeweller so they could 
ascertain whether it was the repair which had failed or had been damaged.
Mr and Mrs R say they expressed concern the ring was being sent back to the jeweller who 
repaired it in the first place to judge the quality of the repair. But they were told they had to 
send it back to the same jeweller. And so they did.
Mr and Mrs R say the jeweller said the damage wasnt related to the original repair. Mr and 
Mrs R were told the jeweller accepted no responsibility for the damage and said the ring had 
suffered impact damage. Mr R says his wife has been wearing the ring for over 12 years with 
no other issues so they dont accept the damage to the ring has been caused by impact. Mr 
and Mrs R are adamant the further issues to the ring are related to the original repair being 
carried out incorrectly. 
Mr and Mrs R say Fairmead has told them in order to now proceed they would need to open 
a new claim. And they say the repair would likely be carried out by the same jewellers who 
were unable to restore the ring to its original state in the first instance. They have said they 
want Fairmead to now pay for the original manufacturer to repair the ring. 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy and so complained to Fairmead. 
Fairmead said since Mr and Mrs R had not taken out personal possessions cover it would 
only cover damage to the ring but would not replace the stone. Fairmead said its jeweller 
repaired the ring and Mr and Mrs R said they were unhappy with the repair. And so the ring 
was sent back for re-setting. 
Fairmead said when Mr and Mrs R contacted again about the ring it told them the ring would 
need to be sent to the jeweller to assess the cause of damage. Its jeweller said the damage 
was the result of impact rather than being caught. It said despite having the setting edges 
repaired previously any excessive force would cause edges to be damaged again. 
Fairmead said since its jeweller has confirmed the ring has suffered impact damage it would 
be guided by them. If Mr and Mrs R wanted the ring repaired they would need to register a 
new claim since the damage to the ring wasnt related to the original repair. It also said it felt 
it had provided a fair and consistent service. Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy so referred 
their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she didnt think Fairmead needed to take 
any further action. She said Fairmead had relied on the opinion of two specialists in order to 
come to its view. The investigator said since Fairmead didnt think the damage to the ring 
was related to the first repair it was reasonable for it to expect a further repair to be logged 
as a new claim. Mr and Mrs R werent happy with the view from the investigator. And so the 
complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint.
My role is to decide whether Fairmead handled Mr and Mrs Rs insurance claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, and whether it handled their claim fairly in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy is a home insurance policy. The section of cover relevant to this 
complaint is accidental damage to contents which provides protection for accidents in the 
home. 
The repair
The policy says, we will at our option: i) replace as new, ii) pay the cost to us of replacing as 
new, iii) repair, or iv) pay the cost to us to repair.  So it is able to choose which one of those 
options it offers when settling a claim. Fairmead opted to repair the ring since Mr and Mrs R 
didnt have personal possession insurance. And since Mrs R had been in the home when the 
damage was noted it agreed to cover the repair under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs R sent the ring to the insurers chosen jeweller for repair and when they went to 
collect it they said they werent happy with the state of the repair. So the ring was sent back 
to the jeweller. 
When the ring was collected Mr and Mrs R say they still werent happy with the repair but 
since they had lost faith in the jeweller they decided to take the ring back. Mr and Mrs R 
didnt express this dissatisfaction to Fairmead because they had lost faith in the insurer. And 
so Fairmead werent given the opportunity to explore any further options with Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R have provided some photographs of the ring to demonstrate the issues with it. 
Its not my role to express an opinion on the condition of the ring, rather to take account of 
the expert opinion provided when coming to my decision.
Its unfortunate the repair was still not satisfactory to Mr and Mrs R. And its likely had Mr and 
Mrs R reported this to the insurer it would have taken steps to try resolve the matter. But 
Fairmead werent aware Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the second repair. Im satisfied 
Fairmead acted in line with the terms of its policy here.
Using the same jeweller 
I understand why Mr and Mrs R werent happy the same jeweller was used to inspect the 
ring the third time they reported an issue with it in January. But I have seen a note where 
Fairmead say the original repair was still under warranty and so if the damage was related to 
the original repair it would be covered under this. Fairmead have also said in the event of 
any poor workmanship the specialist in question would always be given the opportunity to 
review and rectify it if appropriate.  So I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to send the ring 
back to the jeweller in the way it did. 
Making a new claim 
The policy says on receipt of a claim Fairmead may request more information such as, for 
damaged property, confirmation from a suitably qualified tradesman of the cause of 
damage.
It says two different assessors from the jewellers, independent from the original repairer, 
have reviewed the ring. And so I think its fair that Fairmead have relied on the evidence of 
its experts. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs concerns that the expert opinions have all been 
provided by Fairmeads authorised repairer. But I would still expect that repairer to act 
professionally in giving their opinions. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R have expressed that they would like Fairmead to pay for the ring 
to be sent to the original manufacturer. But since it doesnt consider the current damage is 
related to the original claim it has asked Mr and Mrs R to make a new claim in order to deal 
with the repair, which is reasonable.
I know Mr and Mrs R are very unhappy with this matter. And that is understandable since it 
relates to Mrs Rs engagement ring which obviously means a lot to her and I do empathise 
with the position they find themselves in. However this doesnt mean Fairmead have done 
anything wrong.
For the reasons I have outlined I think Fairmead have acted fairly and in line with its policy in 
how its handled Mr and Mrs Rs claim.  Therefore I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman