DRN-3155454
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) provided 
him with a loan that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2018, ELL agreed to lend Mr C £3,000, repayable over 36 months. The APR was 
149.3%, the total amount repayable £9,130.68 and the monthly loan repayment £253.63. 
ELLs records show that the loan was taken out to consolidate some existing borrowing that 
Mr C had and also towards a holiday. 
According to ELLs records, the loan was repaid in February 2019. Mr C says he was able to 
repay the loan after he borrowed money from elsewhere. 
In August 2020, Mr C complained to ELL that the loan had been unaffordable. ELL didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said that it had carried out relevant checks to ensure that Mr C could 
afford the loan and found that he had enough disposable income to meet the loan 
repayments. 
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his concerns to this Service. An investigator here 
considered the matter and upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that:
- The information ELL gathered before agreeing to lend showed signs that Mr C had 
recently experienced problems managing his money. 
- It shouldve been apparent from the information it gathered that in fact Mr C didnt 
have enough disposable income to sustainably meet the loan repayments.
- Because of this, ELL should refund all interest and charges and remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of those interest and charges.
ELL disagreed. It said, in summary, that:
- Mr Cs financial difficulties were historic  in 2013. There were no further signs of 
financial difficulty after this.
- Mr Cs bank statements show he didnt use an overdraft and contain no other signs 
of financial distress. Also, a reasonable amount of the expenditure was non-
essential.
- It still thought the checks it had carried out showed that Mr C did have enough 
disposable income to meet the loan repayments.
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, that:
- Mr Cs credit file and bank statements show that he was experiencing problems 
managing his money in the lead up to this loan. He had taken out a number of short 
term loans and his borrowing seemed to be increasing.  
- Bearing this in mind, ELL ought to have looked more closely at the bank statements 
Mr C supplied to them. An income and expenditure assessment based on the 
statements themselves, show that Mr C didnt have sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments (without factoring in non-essential 
expenditure). 
ELL continued to disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
When granting the loan, ELL needed to abide by the Consumer Credit lending rules 
(CONC). Relevant to this case, ELL needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks to ensure that Mr C would be able to sustainably meet the loan 
repayments. ELL also needed to make a fair lending decision, based on the information it 
obtained when carrying out those checks. 
ELL has said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment before agreeing to 
lend Mr C the money. It says it verified Mr Cs income by requesting bank statements and 
that it used ONS data to calculate his living expenses, based on factors such as his income 
and location. ELLs records indicate that it gathered information about Mr Cs existing credit 
commitments (and expenditure towards these) and it also said it applied a buffer for living 
expenses, to account for any unexpected minor changes in circumstances. ELL says this 
demonstrated that Mr C had enough disposable income to meet the loan repayments. 
The key question here is whether it was reasonable of ELL to calculate Mr Cs disposable 
income in this way it did, when it had more accurate and specific information to use in the 
form of Mr Cs bank statements showing his account activity in the lead up to the loan. And I 
dont think it was. 
Thinking about the amount Mr C was borrowing, the high APR, the total cost of the 
borrowing and the loan term, I dont consider it was reasonable or proportionate of ELL to 
rely on ONS averages for expenditure, when it had information available to establish a more 
accurate picture of his income versus expenditure. 
And having looked at the bank statements that ELL received from Mr C, I agree with the 
investigator that they present a picture of someone struggling to manage their money. A 
basic calculation of Mr Cs income versus expenditure for the period covered by the 
statements (June to August 2018), indicates that after taking into account the new loan 
repayment amount (and also allowing for the debt consolidation that was intended to 
happen), Mr C would be left with no disposable income. In other words, a review of the bank 
statements indicates that Mr C would not reasonably have been able to sustainably meet the 
loan repayments. 
The bank statements show that Mr C was paying more towards his existing credit than ELL 
had accounted for. In addition, they show that Mr C took out four payday loans in the three 
month period. They show that in total, he borrowed £2,690 in payday loans and made total 
repayments of £528.92. This represents a significant deficit and strongly indicates a reliance on payday lending to support spending. This further indicates that Mr C was not in a position 
to sustainably meet the ELL loan repayments.
I think this means that ELL made an unfair lending decision and that it needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr C in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr C 
was given the loan and he had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr C back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I dont think it appropriate for ELL to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
Bearing this in mind, ELL needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid to date.
2. It appears the loan has been repaid. However, if the borrowing is still in place, reduce 
any outstanding capital balance by the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a positive 
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr C and 8% simple 
interest should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Everyday Lending Limited trading 
as Everyday Loans. I direct it to do what Ive said above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman