DRN-3377919
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Unum Ltd handled his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr L has a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Unum. This 
pays a benefit if Mr L is unable to work due to illness or injury, with a deferred (waiting) 
period of 26 weeks. Mr L became absent from work in January 2018 and made a claim, 
which Unum declined. 
Mr L complained and appealed, with the help of his father who is acting as his 
representative. All references to Mr L include any submissions made by his father. 
In 2020, Unum agreed to pay the claim with a new deferred period starting in March 2018, 
backdated the claim, paid 8% interest and £150 compensation. Mr L doesnt think £150 
compensation is sufficient in the circumstances due to the level of stress caused to him. He 
says the way Unum acted exacerbated his condition. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Unum had done enough to put 
things right. Mr L disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
Due to non-payment, Mr L was stressed as he had to ask his parents to fund his 
entire costs and 8% interest doesnt compensate for this.
Mr L is vulnerable and is more severely impacted by mistakes. 
Unum were repeatedly advised that stress was exacerbating Mr Ls condition and so 
it should have taken more care and consideration in its process.
Unum repeatedly refused to accept the claim. 
Unums actions from October 2018 to January 2020 have significantly made Mr Ls 
condition worse.
Unum should have acted on the diagnosis in October 2018 or in January 2019 at the 
latest when it realised it should have delayed the deferred period and had it done 
this, Mr L may have been fully recovered by now.
Mr Ls father took about 150 hours of his personal time to deal with Unum.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I should start by saying that although I wont reference everything Mr L has said, I have 
carefully considered all of his submissions in detail. I have only focused on what I consider to 
be key to my decision, as our rules allow me to do.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer must dealt with complaints promptly, 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
The onus is on a claimant to show that they meet the definition of incapacity, through 
medical evidence. And they have to be incapacitated throughout the deferred period, and 
beyond. In this case, the deferred period was 26 weeks.
Unum initially declined the claim on the basis that the medical evidence didnt show that Mr L 
was incapacitated from January 2018. But it considered a new deferred period starting from 
March 2018 when the medical evidence did refer to symptoms of Mr Ls illness.
Unum accepted the claim with a new deferred period in January 2020, backdated and paid 
the claim with 8% simple interest and offered £150 compensation for stress and 
inconvenience. 
But Mr L remains unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by Unum for stress and 
inconvenience and the impact of its actions. So my decision will focus on this.
Mr L says Unum had enough information to accept the claim by January 2019 at the latest. 
So Ive considered the key timeline of events.
Key dates
In July 2018, Unum sent its initial decline letter for the deferred period January 2018 to June 
2018. Based on the medical evidence available at the time, I dont think Unum unfairly or 
incorrectly declined the claim at this stage for the reasons it explained. And it seems Mr L 
also accepts this. 
In October, Mr L appealed Unums decision on the basis that he had been diagnosed with 
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). Unum wrote to explain the claim would be discussed 
during a medical review and a claims decision or next steps would be confirmed. 
In November, Unum confirmed it had reviewed the additional information provided and it 
would now be undertaking a full file review to better understand the medical situation during 
the deferred period. At the end of November, Unum confirmed its assessment had been 
completed and it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
In December, Mr L emailed Unum to ask further questions about the claims process and 
asked for a call to be arranged for a discussion in January 2019. Unum explained its 
assessment covered the period January to June 2018, as the deferred period.
In January 2019, Mr L wrote to Unum to make a subject access request as Unum said Mr L 
hadnt met the definition of incapacity for the full deferred period and he wanted to see the 
medical evidence. Unum emailed Mr L following the phone call and said it considered the points raised by Mr L and it was going to investigate a potentially slightly later period of 
liability as Mr L had been diagnosed with CFS after the deferred period. It said it would 
obtain further updated medical evidence from Mr Ls GP to consider this further. It sent the 
request to the GP.
In February, Unum updated Mr Ls employer and in March, it chased the GP records. In 
April, Mr L confirmed the GP was collating the information to send to Unum. 
In May, Unum confirmed the case had been referred to its chief medical officer for review. In 
July, Mr Ls employer chased for a response and Unum replied to confirm the chief medical 
officer was reviewing the file. 
Towards the end of July, Unum wrote to Mr Ls employer and confirmed it was maintaining 
its decline. But it referred to the deferred period as being January to June 2018. As Unum 
had agreed that it would look at a later deferred period, I can see why Mr L would have been 
frustrated and annoyed by this. Unum should have reviewed the case with a new deferred 
period of March to August 2018.
In September 2019, Mr L complained to Unum and sent further medical evidence for it to 
consider. Unum also requested updated medical records from his GP which they chased in 
December 2019.
In January 2020, Unum agreed to accept the claim with a new deferred period from March to 
August, with the claim being paid and backdated to August 2019. 
Mr Ls employer was unhappy with the delays to the claim and Unum replied to apologise, 
offered to pay 8% simple interest from the start date of the claim and £150 compensation for 
any stress and inconvenience caused as a result of delays. 
Mr L remained unhappy and believes Unum should have accepted the claim at an earlier 
stage.
Having considered the above timeline, I agree with Mr L that Unum should have accepted 
the claim at an earlier stage. But based on the information provided and the delays in the 
medical evidence, I think the earliest it could reasonably have accepted the claim is July 
2019 once the file had been reviewed again. So this is the point where the claim should have 
become payable. 
Mr L says Unum had all the information it needed by January 2019. But that isnt the case as 
Unum was still chasing medical records. It isnt unusual or unreasonable for an insurer to 
request updated medical records each time it reviews a claim, as it needs to be sure that the 
incapacity is ongoing. As Unum agreed to start the deferred period at a later date than 
initially claimed for, it needed to review the updated medical history.
So based on the above, I agree that Unum delayed accepting the claim between July 2019 
and January 2020. And so for a period of approximately six months, Mr L would have 
suffered stress and inconvenience as a result of the continuing process. 
Ive considered Mr Ls health issues and his diagnosis of CFS and that stress could 
exacerbate his condition. And although the claim being declined would have been stressful 
for Mr L, Unum followed its process by reviewing the claim when requested and dealing with 
the appeals and complaints processes. Initially, Unum declined the claim fairly. But this still 
would have caused Mr L stress. However, I cant hold Unum responsible for his stress for 
that period. The amount of interest paid by Unum for the benefit between August 2018 and July 2019 
amounts to just under £2,000. Awards of £2,000 compensation are made when a business 
error has caused sustained distress and potentially affected someones health. I dont think 
Unum could have fairly accepted the claim before July 2019. So I think the award of £2,000 
interest fairly compensates Mr L for the impact of Unums mistakes in addition to the £150 
compensation offered.
Mr Ls father took 150 hours of his personal time to deal with Unum. But I have considered 
the overall award Unum has made to Mr L and I dont think an additional or separate award 
for his father is fair or reasonable in the circumstances in addition to what Unum has already 
paid.
Having considered everything, I think Unums offer is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances to take into account any delay, stress and inconvenience and unnecessary 
chasing. So I cant fairly ask it to pay Mr L any further compensation. 
Other points
Mr L has complained about Unums communication when asking for updates. That isnt 
something that has been investigated as part of this case and so doesnt form part of my 
decision. If Mr L has ongoing concerns about Unum, he will need to raise a new complaint 
with Unum in the first instance. 
Mr L also mentioned an offer made by Unum to settle the claim. This isnt something which 
is unusual or incorrect. An insurer can make an offer to settle a claim at any point and its up 
to the claimant to accept or reject. Mr Ls employer rejected the settlement and Unum 
proceeded to continue with its complaint and review.
And finally, Mr L isnt happy with the length of time taken for Unum to handle his complaint. 
Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity and so I cant comment on that. 
Overall, although Unum could have accepted the claim at an earlier point, Im satisfied that it 
acted reasonably by amending the deferred period and awarding interest from the 
commencement date of the claim. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman