DRN-2652526
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the length of time it took HSBC Bank Plc to open an account.
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her son, Mr C, who has a Lasting Power of 
Attorney (LPoA) for her.
What happened
On 15 November 2019, Mr C contacted HSBC through the Live Chat function on their 
website, and asked about opening an account for Mrs C. He then visited a branch on 21 
November 2019. But the account couldnt be opened because Mrs C wasnt present. Mr C 
said, because of the situation, HSBC said a home visit would be required, which was 
arranged for 3 January 2020. But HSBC didnt attend the visit and it had to be rearranged.
HSBC opened a current account for Mrs C on 9 March 2020, and they processed a current 
account switch request in April 2020. But they couldnt complete this  Mrs Cs existing bank 
rejected the switch because the LPoA hadnt been registered with them.
Mr C complained to HSBC about the length of time it took for them to open Mrs Cs account. 
He was also unhappy that he couldnt set up online banking for this account  HSBC told 
him his brother would need to be removed from the LPoA, as only one person would be 
allowed to access Mrs Cs account.
HSBC acknowledged theyd given incorrect information about the online banking, and it 
wasnt necessary for the brother to be removed from the LPoA. They credited Mrs Cs 
account with £100 in recognition of this error. But Mr C wasnt happy with this as a 
resolution, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, when Mr C first contacted HSBC, the Live Chat operator wasnt 
aware that Mrs C was unable to leave home and go to the branch. So he thought that HSBC 
booking an appointment at a branch was reasonable. But he did think that HSBC shouldve 
kept the original home visit appointment Mr C said they made.
The investigator also said the decision to reject the current account switch was made by Mrs 
Cs previous bank, not HSBC, and HSBC werent able to complete the switch without this 
authority. So he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.
The investigator explained that, as Mrs C was the account holder, we could only consider 
the impact HSBCs service had on her. And we wouldnt be able to consider any 
inconvenience Mr C had suffered. He said that, because Mrs C didnt make any 
unnecessary trips to a HSBC branch, and because she wasnt inconvenienced by the home 
visit (she slept through the visit that happened), he thought any inconvenience shed 
suffered was relatively low. So he thought the £100 HSBC had already paid was reasonable, 
and he didnt think they should do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said Mrs C is not capable of running and opening 
the account herself, which is why an LPoA is in place. So any issues and barriers I faced 
had a direct impact on my mother. He says that the delays he faced, and the fact he 
couldnt operate the account online, impacted Mrs C because her account couldnt be fully 
operated. And Mrs C also lost out on the £175 switch incentive HSBC were offering.
Mr C believes that the impact on me had a clear and direct impact on my mother and he 
thinks the compensation should be increased as a result. So, hes asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr C contacted HSBC on 15 November 2019, through their Live Chat function. Ive seen this 
Live Chat, and Mr C explained he wanted to open an account for Mrs C. He said I have a 
power of attorney for mum, how should I open the account? online and then go to brance 
[sic] and show the POW [sic] document. If reply, HSBC told him you can go ahead and 
have POA set up at the branch and explained how he could book an appointment to do this.
Mr C visited a branch on 21 November 2019, but to open the account and not just to register 
the LPoA. And, because Mrs C wasnt with him, HSBC couldnt open the account. Due to 
Mrs Cs medical condition, HSBC said that they could do a home visit. Mr C says this was 
arranged for 3 January 2020, but HSBC say no visit was ever arranged.
Ive seen HSBC wrote to Mrs C and Mr C on 13 January 2020. This letter explained the 
account income criteria of £1,750 a month would need to be met before a home visit could 
take place. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that any initial home visit thatd 
been agreed couldnt go ahead because Mr C hadnt provided HSBC with anything to show 
Mrs C met the minimum income criteria for the account. And it wasnt until hed done so that 
a home visit could take place.
HSBC have said they dont make any assumptions about the donors status when dealing 
with a LPoA, so they wouldnt have assumed Mrs C was unable to visit the branch. Theyve 
said that Mr C never made them aware of this, and had he done so, they wouldve explained 
what would need to happen  we need to (at the bare minimum) meet the customer who we 
are opening the account for. 
Based on what Ive seen, there was a misunderstanding between HSBC and Mr C. The 
advice he was given on the Live Chat was about registering a LPoA on an account Mr C was 
going to set up online for Mrs C; not to open the account itself.
There also seems to have been a misunderstanding about the home visit on 3 January 
2020, and the fact that HSBC needed to see that Mrs C met the income criteria before this 
could be arranged. This was clearly an unfortunate situation, but I dont think HSBC have 
done anything wrong. So I wont be asking them to do anything more about this.Ive seen that HSBC opened Cs account on 9 March 2020. While I appreciate this was 
almost four months after Mr C initially contacted HSBC, Ive not seen anything to show me 
there was any undue delay between HSBC receiving the application and whatever 
verification they needed, and the account being opened. So I cant agree that HSBC did 
anything wrong here.
Mr C called HSBC on 14 April 2020 to arrange for a current account switch and to arrange 
for online banking. And he was told, because there were two registered attorneys on the 
LPoA, one of these would need to be removed before online banking could be set up. HSBC 
have accepted this was incorrect advice, and Mr C shouldve been told that only one of the 
attorneys would be able to access online banking, not both.
Ive seen that HSBC confirmed their error, and how online banking would work, in an email 
on 21 April 2020  a week later. They also credited Mrs Cs account with £100 by way of an 
apology. I havent seen that Mr C took any steps to try and remove his brother from the 
LPoA document, so HSBCs error only led to a delay of a week in online banking being able 
to be set up. Given this, Im satisfied the £100 HSBC paid was reasonable in the 
circumstances, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Mrs Cs existing bank rejected the current account switch on 15 April 2020 because account 
party details do not match. The issue seemed to be that Mrs Cs existing bank hadnt 
registered the LPoA. This isnt something within HSBCs control, so they werent at fault for 
the switch not happening. And, because the switch incentive is only payable once the switch 
has completed, Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything wrong by not paying this to Mrs C.
Mr C has also said he received two text messages from HSBC, one telling him the switch 
had been successful, and one saying that itd been rejected. But HSBCs records only show 
one text message was sent  the rejection. And Mr C hasnt provided a copy of the text 
message saying the switch was successful. Because of this, I cant say that HSBC told Mr C 
the switch had been successful, when it hadnt.
It wouldve been possible for Mr C to raise the switch rejection issue with Mrs Cs existing 
bank, have the LPoA registered, and request the switch again. And, in doing so, the switch 
couldve taken place and HSBC wouldve paid Mrs C the switch incentive. But Mr C chose to 
keep Mrs Cs account with her original bank, and not use the HSBC account. Because of 
this, I wont be asking HSBC to pay the switch incentive to Mrs C.
I appreciate Mr C comments about how he was inconvenienced by what happened and how 
Mrs Cs unable to manage her finances herself. But Mrs C is still the account holder. And the 
investigator has explained how we can only consider the impact on the account holder, not 
any other third-party. Which includes an attorney under an LPoA. So, because of this, I wont 
be asking HSBC to pay Mr C any compensation for any inconvenience hes suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about HSBC Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman