DRN-3375255
The complaint
Miss A complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss A is covered under her employers income protection scheme. The aim of the cover 
is to provide a benefit initially in the event Miss A cant work because of illness or injury. 
The scheme has a 28-week deferred period.
Miss A stopped work in 2016. She was signed off by her GP until January 2017, when 
she gave birth. Miss A then went on maternity leave. This ended in January 2018, but 
she was again signed off by her GP as not fit to work. Miss A was pregnant again at this 
point.
In March 2018, Miss A started her second maternity leave. She gave birth the 
following month. In April 2019, Miss As second maternity leave ended. Miss A didnt 
feel able to return work after this.
In 2019, Miss As employer made her aware of the income protection policy, and so she 
made a claim. However, Unum turned down the claim as it thought the late notification of 
the claim had prejudiced its ability to assess it.
Miss A said she wanted the claim to begin from April 2018, as she thought this was the 
date that she became unable to work. However, Unum said that Miss A wasnt actively at 
work before March/April 2018, and therefore it couldnt consider her absence from this 
date. Unhappy with this, Miss A brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for Unum not to consider the claim from April 2018, as Miss A didnt satisfy 
the policy requirement to be actively at work before her incapacity.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2022. Heres what I said:
The first issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for Unum to say it had 
been prejudiced by the late notification of the claim.
The policy terms say that a claim form should be completed within 90 days of the end of 
the deferred period, or Unum has the right to decline the claim or to limit cover. However, 
this service would only consider it reasonable for Unum to rely on this term if it were 
unable to properly assess the claim because of the late notification.
Miss A was first absent on 29 July 2016, and so the deferred period would have ended on 
10 February 2017. The claim was submitted in November 2019.
Miss A saw her GP in July, September, October, November and December 2016. Whilst 
I appreciate the late notification meant that Unum couldnt contact Miss A or her GP at 
the time, Im satisfied theres enough contemporaneous medical evidence for Unum to 
make a claims decision, and I dont agree that it was prejudiced by the late notification of 
the claim.
Having said that, I see that Unum still considered whether the medical evidence was 
sufficient to support a claim payment, and it concluded that it wasnt. So it seems to me 
that Unum still made a claims decision on the matter (albeit not formally). Ive therefore 
considered whether Unum reached a reasonable decision here.
Benefit is payable initially if Miss A is unable to carry out the material and substantial 
duties of her occupation. This would need to be the case throughout the 28-week 
deferred period.
In July 2016, Miss A reported recurring headaches and vomiting to her GP. She was seen 
in hospital and was diagnosed with a migraine. In August 2016, Miss A was reviewed by 
her GP and reported that her symptoms had improved, though she had been feeling low 
and anxious over the previous few weeks.
In September 2016, Miss A reported that she was struggling with her mood, and felt 
anxious. She was started on antidepressant medication. However, by October 2016, she 
was doing much better, and although shed experienced some side effects with her 
medication, this was settling. This was also the case in November and December 2016. 
Miss A then didnt see her GP again until March 2017.
I agree with Unum that the medical evidence doesnt support that Miss A was 
continuously incapacitated throughout the initial 28-week deferred period. Thats 
because Miss As symptoms appear to have improved with medication by October 
2016.
The policy terms also say:
If we decline or stop paying a claim because the member does not meet the 
definition of incapacity, but the member does not return to work, you can 
submit a new claim if their condition worsens, or they suffer a new condition 
within a year from our decision.
Unum said that to be fair to Miss A, it looked at the medical evidence for a 12-month 
period from February 2017 to see if the 28-week deferred period could be started later, 
as this was when the original deferred period ended. Given that the claim wasnt 
submitted until November 2019, I think this was fair. I say that because if Miss A had 
submitted her claim promptly, then Unums claims decision would have been made 
around February 2017, as this was when the initial deferred period ended.
Ive therefore looked at the medical evidence between February 2017 and February 2018 
to see whether this supports that Miss A couldnt work for a period of 28 weeks.
After Miss A had last seen her GP in December 2016 (with an improved mood), she then 
reported that she was struggling with her mood again in March 2017. She said her low 
mood and anxiety had started again after giving birth. Her GP started her on a different 
antidepressant medication.
Miss A didnt see her GP again until July 2017. At this time, she told her GP shed initially 
felt better on her medication, but for the last few months she didnt think it had been 
working. Her GP discussed counselling with her, but she wasnt keen on this.
In August 2017, Miss A was taking a higher dose of her medication and reported that she was doing much better as a result. In September 2017, Miss A was reportedly 
feeling anxious again and felt ready to discuss counselling. However, later that same 
month she said she was doing much better, and had been referred for counselling by 
her midwife.
Then in December 2017, Miss A reported feeling anxious again. She told her GP she 
had been seen by a psychiatrist, though the GP didnt have a record of that. Miss A had 
been in a road traffic accident, and said she had been experiencing post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) symptoms since then.
Miss As consultant obstetrician (Dr S) wrote to Miss As GP in December 2017 and 
explained shed attended the mental health clinic that day. Dr S said that Miss As 
mental health had significantly deteriorated after a car accident earlier that year, and 
she had described what Dr S thought sounded like symptoms of PTSD. She said this 
was causing Miss A significant anxiety. Dr S confirmed that Miss A had accepted a 
referral to psychological services to help manage her symptoms of PTSD.
In January 2018, Miss A had a phone consultation with her GP, and said she still felt 
anxious and wasnt ready to return to work. Her antidepressant medication dose was 
increased. The following month, Miss A said she felt better with her medication, and was 
due to start counselling the following week.
Unum says there are multiple references in Miss As medical records which refer to 
both improvements in her mood, as well as anxiety or low mood. It acknowledges that 
her medication was increased, but says theres no objective evidence of how Miss As 
clinical and functional status was affected by her mental health. Unum also makes the 
point that whilst Dr S likened Miss As reaction to the road traffic accident as being 
PTSD, this condition hadnt been diagnosed and she hadnt been signed off work for 
that reason. Furthermore, whilst Dr S said that Miss As mental health had significantly 
deteriorated, this wasnt supported by Miss As GP records from the time.
I think Unum raises some reasonable points here. Whilst its apparent that Miss A was 
experiencing periods of anxiety between February 2017 and February 2018, the 
medical evidence doesnt appear to support that her mental health symptoms were so 
severe that they prevented her from working for 28-weeks or more.
Miss As GP wrote a letter in July 2019. This said that Miss As prenatal period leading up 
to April 2018 was extremely stressful, and that she suffered from quite significant 
persistent anxiety and panic symptoms. The GP said that this was only barely managed 
with medication and Miss A was having regular input with counselling services.
Unum makes the point that the GP letter was written some time after the relevant 
period. It also says that Miss As counselling didnt start until after February 2018.
As Miss A wasnt receiving counselling at the relevant time, we cant obtain further 
information relating to her mental health before February 2018 in order to see how this 
may have impacted her ability to work. Whilst Miss As GP records make reference to 
Miss A seeing a psychiatrist in late 2017, the GP didnt have a record of that. Unum 
wasnt provided with any information from a psychiatrist, and so I havent considered 
this.
It is unfortunate that Miss As claim was submitted so late. Whilst I wouldnt go so far as to 
say the late submission prejudiced Unum, it is the case that if the claim had been made 
promptly, Unum couldve arranged for Miss A to have a psychiatric examination to assess 
how her symptoms affected her. Given the time thats now passed, it wouldnt be appropriate for Unum to now do so.
Given the late notification, Unum had to base its decision on Miss As medical records 
from the time. As Ive said, I agree with Unum that this evidence doesnt support that 
Miss A couldnt work for a 28-week period between February 2017 and February 2018.
The final point for me to consider is whether it would be reasonable for Unum to take 
Miss As first date of absence as being April 2018. This is the date that Miss A wants Unum 
to use.
Unum says that Miss A wasnt actively at work before April 2018. The policy says:
We will only cover an employee who is actively at work on the day before their cover is 
due to start.
In practice
At the start of the cover, we will regard an employee as being actively at work if they 
meet the requirement on the day it applies but they are:
On a period of leave that was agreed in advance by you, or
Not contracted to work
Cover for an employee who is not actively at work will start once they return to work 
and meet the requirement.
It then says:
Actively at work means that an employee:
Is actively following their normal occupation, and
Is working the normal number of hours required by their contract of employment, 
and
Is working at their normal business or at another business location, and
Has not received medical advice to reduce or stop their work activity.
As our investigator has said, Miss A had received medical advice to stop her work activity 
before April 2018. Consequently, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that 
Miss A wasnt actively at work the day before the date she wanted the deferred period to 
start in April 2018.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Miss A, as I understand her health has 
deteriorated since April 2018. Nonetheless, I think it was reasonable for Unum to say that 
the claim cant be considered from April 2018 as Miss A wasnt actively at work before 
then.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Miss A responded and referred to a letter from her GP written in July 2020, which she said 
was a true reflection of her health. She said she felt discriminated against by Unum, and that 
her employer arranged for her to have occupational health assessments which concluded 
she couldnt work. She thought Unum could obtain these from her employer. Miss A also 
explained that because of ill health, she had had to resign from her job and had suffered a 
financial loss. 
Unum responded and said it largely agrees with my provisional decision. Though it said it still thinks the late notification of the claim prevented it from doing certain investigations, 
such as obtaining a psychiatrists report, and that its investigation was therefore prejudiced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties that Miss A has gone through, and that her ill health 
meant she has had to resign from her job. However, my role is to look at whether it was 
fair for Unum not to accept her claim, based on the policy terms and conditions. As 
Miss A is aware, Ive only looked at the medical evidence for the periods set out in my 
provisional decision, and I havent taken into account the current state of her health.
Miss A has provided a letter from her GP written in July 2020. The GP said that Miss A 
was suffering with acute anxiety symptoms, which was clearly documented in the 
consultation notes of August and September 2016. The GP said they had recorded at 
Miss As follow-up reviews that she was doing really well, though they said this was in 
relation to the September 2016 appointment. The GP said they didnt think Miss A was fit 
enough to resume working between July 2016 and January 2017, and she was given fit 
notes stating that.
Im afraid I dont think this letter adds any new information. I was already aware that 
Miss As GP didnt think Miss A could work, as she had been given sick notes signing her 
off work. However, I think it was reasonable for Unum to rely on the contemperaneous 
evidence, which was the GP notes from the time. These didnt mention any functional 
limitations, and showed that Miss A had improved from October 2016.
Miss A has referred to occupational health reports, which she says support that she 
couldnt work. However, there was no mention of these reports on the file, and it 
therefore seems Unum hasnt been provided with them. If Miss A obtains these reports 
and thinks they may change the outcome of the claim, then she should send them to 
Unum to consider. 
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I remain satisfied that this doesnt support 
that Miss A met the policy definition of incapacity over the relevant periods. 
Whilst Unum remains of the view that it was prejudiced from assessing the claim, Im still 
satisfied that there was sufficient medical evidence available for it to reach a claims 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman