DRN-3765042
The complaint
Ms M complains about the advice given by Hilltop Finance Limited (HFL) to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
She says the advice was unsuitable.
Ms M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Ms M.
What happened
Ms M was put in contact with HFL in late 2017 by her trade union, to discuss her pension. 
A summary of the transfer value of Ms Ms benefits was obtained from the DB scheme in 
January 2018. This set out the length of pensionable service, her normal retirement date 
(which was in February 2019) the pension she was entitled to at the date she left the 
scheme and gave the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her pension benefits, which 
was £71,230.84.
HFL completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Ms circumstances and objectives. 
It noted she was 63, single and had a daughter in her twenties, who was not financially 
dependent on her. Ms M was not working and indicated shed left her previous job due to ill 
health so was effectively medically retired. Ms M informed HFL of several health conditions 
she was dealing with. Ms Ms income was made up entirely of benefits at the time. She 
owned her own home with no mortgage and had an outstanding credit card balance of 
approximately £1,000, which she was repaying at a rate of £100 per month. Ms M indicated 
she expected to begin receiving her state pension from age 65. And her DB scheme was the 
only private retirement provisions she had in place.
The fact-find indicated that Ms M wanted to know what her pension benefits were worth and 
when she could access them. It also said she hoped to maintain a similar income in 
retirement to what she was receiving at the time through benefits. It said Ms M didnt have 
any set plans for her pension but thought flexibility to allow her to access money as and 
when needed, rather than a fixed income might be useful. It also noted that she may choose 
to take tax-free cash (TFC) to purchase a new car and may want to help her daughter with 
a deposit on a house in the future. But it said her main concern was to ensure, in the event 
of her death, her daughter received the maximum possible benefit.
HFL also carried out an assessment of Ms Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious to moderate. 
On 21 February 2018, HFL advised Ms M to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said Ms M was now 64 and would like to start accessing her 
pension funds at age 65. It said she wanted an income of £9,104 per year in retirement, 
which was in line with what she currently received. Based on what Ms M had told HFL she 
thought her state pension entitlement was likely to be, it said this, plus the portion of her 
state benefits that would continue into retirement, would meet, and indeed exceed, her 
income need (although it said she should obtain confirmation of her state pension 
entitlement). HFL said, after it had discussed the DB scheme with Ms M, she wanted the 
option to access TFC as and when needed, rather than having to take a fixed income. And it 
reiterated she was interested in alternative death benefits.
HFL said there were drawbacks of transferring. It said Ms M would be taking on risk and 
there was the possibility her fund could run out depending on the level of income she took. It 
also said it thought the growth required to allow her to purchase equivalent pension benefits 
to the DB scheme at age 65 was unlikely to be achieved. But overall, it recommended a 
transfer because the TFC Ms M could take from a personal pension would be higher than 
under the DB scheme and a personal pension would provide the flexibility and alternative 
death benefits she wanted. It said it expected the recommended fund to grow by 4.1% per 
year and estimated that if it did so, by age 90 Ms M would still have a significant sum 
available to leave to her daughter if she took the pension amount she said she needed each 
year  although it wasnt clear how much of this would be taken from the transferred 
scheme. 
Ms M complained to HFL in July 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said 
the information shed been given was unclear and confusing, HFL hadnt given her a clear 
explanation of what she was giving up and she didnt think the transfer was suitable based 
on her needs and objectives.
HFL didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said during the calls it held with Ms M, shed made it 
clear she was in poor health, and it was important to her that her daughter benefitted from 
the pension in the event she passed away. The DB scheme didnt provide this option 
whereas a personal pension did. So, it felt the transfer was suitable. It also disagreed that it 
had been unclear in its explanations. HFL said it had made it clear in its recommendation 
and via phone to Ms M, and her daughter at Ms Ms request, the repercussions of the 
transfer. 
Ms M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
HFL should compensate Ms M for any loss the transfer had led to. He said, while Ms M 
mightve had reasons for thinking a transfer was in her interests, it wasnt HFLs role just to 
put in place what Ms M mightve thought she wanted. Rather it needed to give her advice on 
what was in her best interests. Overall, he thought Ms M was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower value as a result of transferring. And, given a pensions purpose is to 
provide for the holder in retirement, he didnt think any of the other reasons given for 
transferring outweighed this or made accepting this reduction in benefits suitable for Ms M.
HFL disagreed. It said Ms Ms retirement income needs would be met by her state pension 
and benefits so, not only did she have capacity for loss, she also didnt need to access her 
DB scheme and to take a regular pension. Therefore, it felt the flexibility provided, which 
wouldve allowed Ms M to take TFC for purposes she wanted to use it towards, was a useful 
feature. And it said Ms M had been very clear that the provision of death benefits was 
important to her. So, HFL said it thought the advice was suitable based on her specific 
circumstances and objectives.
Ms M noted in response to the Investigators opinion that the state benefits HFL said she 
would be receiving were subject to assessment, so not guaranteed to continue in retirement. 
And she said these werent to cover living expenses anyway but the additional costs her 
health condition might bring about. So, she argued she didnt have the capacity for loss that 
HFL had said.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of HFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, HFL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her 
best interests.
Financial viability 
HFL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Ms Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield). This said, as Ms M was about to turn 64 and 
the normal retirement age of her scheme was 65, the critical yield required to match the 
benefits the DB scheme would provide from age 65 was 41.96%. So, her fund would need to 
grow by that much in one year. This was based on her taking a full pension and no TFC. The 
critical yield wasnt calculated for if she took TFC and a reduced pension. But while this was 
likely to be lower, it was unlikely to be significantly so.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.3% per year for a year to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
term to retirement and Ms Ms recorded attitude to risk. There would be little point in Ms M 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think it is clear that the critical 
yield was highly unlikely to be achieved and Ms M was always likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. 
Indeed, the suitability report acknowledged this in the drawbacks of transferring section, 
saying this was extremely unlikely to be achieved. It also said the estimated capital value of 
Ms Ms projected scheme benefits was valued at over £27,000 more than the CETV. So, by 
taking the value offered she was accepting a potential difference of that amount in her future 
retirement benefits. But it didnt really explain why accepting this was in her interests. 
HFL said in the suitability report that if the fund were to grow by 4.1% per year, which it felt 
was achievable, and Ms M took a net annual income of £9,104 from the age of 65 it 
estimated that by age 90 she would have funds remaining in the pension of over £62,000. 
But it made no reference to how much of this net income amount would be drawn from the 
personal pension in this apparent estimate. And the cashflow analysis section of the 
appendices it provided was blank. This level of growth was not guaranteed. And although in 
calls with Ms M it made reference to the past performance of the recommended fund, as 
HFL knows, past performance is no guarantee of future returns. The rest of the report also 
seems to have been based on Ms Ms income needs being entirely met by different sources 
 and her not needing to take any income from the personal pension. But I dont think her 
drawing no income was a reasonable assumption, as the pension was there to provide for 
her retirement and her taking no income would mean that she was significantly worse off in 
terms of the retirement benefits received. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, from a financial viability perspective I think a transfer out of 
the DB scheme wasnt in Ms Ms best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits  as HFL has suggested here. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
HFL says Ms M wanted flexibility to be able to take TFC and income as and when she 
wanted, rather than receiving a regular income. And she intended to use TFC to purchase a 
new car  which it argues she needed  and potentially help her daughter with a deposit for 
a house. So, as the transfer would allow access to more TFC and flexibility, it thinks it was 
suitable.
Again though, the advice seems to have been based on Ms Ms retirement income needs 
being met by her state pension and benefits and her not needing to or wanting to take a 
regular income from her retirement provisions. Which again I dont think is reasonable or realistic. HFL has provided our service with call recordings between it and Ms M and Ms Ms 
daughter. In the call with Ms Ms daughter, she talked about wanting her mother to have 
some money to enjoy her retirement and wanting to ensure she wasnt left with nothing. And 
again, given a pension is designed to provide for the holder in retirement, I think this 
shouldve been the focus throughout. 
As Ms M has pointed out, the state benefits she was entitled to at the time of the advice 
were subject to review. These were not guaranteed to continue indefinitely. Her estimated 
state pension entitlement appears likely to have gone a long way to meeting her income 
need. But not entirely. The guaranteed pension shed have received from the DB scheme  if 
she took either a full pension or TFC and a reduced pension  when combined with her state 
pension, wouldve met her stated need. And the pension from the DB scheme wouldve 
continued to escalate while in payment. Whereas the amount that could be drawn from a 
personal pension would be subject to investment risk and could run out. So, taking a 
guaranteed pension from her DB scheme, wouldve ensured Ms M received the income she 
expected to need, throughout her lifetime. It might have provided more than she needed  
but she couldve enjoyed this in her retirement or used the excess to help her daughter if she 
so chose. And this wouldve enabled any state benefits she was entitled to be used for their 
intended purpose. So, I dont think she needed flexibility for this purpose.
Im also conscious that the transfer quote from the DB scheme included information 
suggesting that Ms M could defer taking benefits beyond her normal retirement age. And 
that her benefit entitlement would increase if she did so. So, if she genuinely hadnt needed 
to take an income from the DB scheme at age 65, this couldve been considered as an 
alternative. But I cant see that it was.
TFC couldve been taken from the DB scheme when Ms M took retirement benefits. HFL 
indicated Ms M would be able to take more TFC from a personal pension. But Im not sure 
she needed this. 
There is dispute over how pressing a need purchasing a new car was. But from listening to 
the call recordings, while this seems to have been something Ms M had thought about, I 
dont think it was something that she needed to do immediately. And in any event, there was 
no discussion about how much shed need for this purpose. Ms M has said that she in fact 
purchased a new car with financial help from her brother, and this cost approximately 
£6,000, well below the amount of TFC that the DB scheme couldve provided. So, I dont 
think she needed to transfer to enable this purchase.
HFL has said that Ms M wanted to also potentially help her daughter with a house deposit. 
And from the call recordings Ive been provided, Im satisfied that this is something that she 
talked about. But the conversations were also clear that Ms Ms daughters living 
arrangements and requirements were unknown and unlikely to be known for several years 
as she was still to complete a doctorate and have her employment, and where this would be, 
confirmed. So, I dont think this was a pressing need at the point of the advice or for that 
matter a need at all, but rather something that Ms M might like to potentially do in the future. 
And in the conversation with Ms Ms daughter, she explained what they were actually 
thinking about doing was purchasing a property together, once her arrangements were 
known, and either renting it out or renting out Ms Ms property and living together in the new 
property, with the aim of providing a further income via rent, at least partially for Ms M in her 
retirement. So, the focus again from Ms Ms daughters perspective was providing for Ms Ms 
retirement, which the DB scheme already guaranteed to do.
Overall, I dont think Ms M required flexibility in retirement. I dont think she had a strong 
need for a variable income or a confirmed need for TFC that exceeded what the DB scheme 
offered. And so, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation to give up her guaranteed benefits, particularly bearing in mind that she was likely to receive lower benefits overall as a 
result of transferring.
Death benefits
HFL says that death benefits and ensuring the pension provided for her daughter were 
Ms Ms main concern. Having listened to the call recordings provided by HFL, I dont think 
these support that this was something that Ms M specifically had in mind when she was put 
in touch with HFL. The recordings indicate it was HFL that first indicated the DB scheme was 
unlikely to provide death benefits to Ms Ms daughter. And that this might be a reason to 
transfer.
It is clear that this became a concern of Ms Ms after this prompting. And this does seem to 
have been something she became keen to address. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Ms M seems to have thought it was a good idea to transfer 
her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Ms M 
about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. But again, this doesnt appear to have been the focus of HFLs advice, 
as it seems to have been based on Ms Ms state pension and benefits meeting her needs 
and income from the DB scheme not being needed at all. Which I dont think appropriately 
considered what was in her best interests.
I dont doubt that the CETV wouldve been attractive as a lump sum. Indeed, in the call 
recordings Ive been provided, when this figure was first mentioned, Ms M was clearly 
surprised by it and that so much was potentially available. But the sum remaining on death in 
a personal pension was dependent on investment performance and how much was 
withdrawn during Ms Ms lifetime. I dont think it was a reasonable assumption that no 
income would be withdrawn. And the advice didnt cover in any great detail what a 
sustainable level of income would be. Ms M did have some health conditions. But has said in 
her complaint that these would not necessarily have impacted her life expectancy. And I 
agree that Ms M not reaching her life expectancy was only a possibility at the time of the 
advice and it was also possible that she would exceed this, in which case shed have been 
drawing from the pension for longer and the fund may not have had a large sum left by the 
time it came to be passed on. In any event, HFL should not have encouraged Ms M to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security 
in retirement. And I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Ms M.
Suitability of investments
HFL recommended that Ms M invest in a particular fund with her new pension provider. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Ms M, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Ms M. But HFL wasnt there 
to just transact what Ms M might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Ms M needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms M was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms M was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. As Ive explained I dont think Ms M had a need for 
flexibility. And I dont think the potential for higher alternative death benefits was worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme and impacting the benefits the pension 
would provide to her in retirement  its main purpose.
So, I think HFL shouldve advised Ms M to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms M would've gone ahead anyway, against HFL's 
advice. 
It is clear that Ms M was motivated by being able to help her daughter financially. And that 
this extended to her thoughts about her pension. But I dont think shed have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against HFLs advice because of this. Ms M was an 
inexperienced investor and, although HFL said she had a cautious to moderate attitude to 
risk, I think it is clear from the conversations Ive heard that she was largely risk averse. This 
pension was her only private retirement provision. And shed been referred to HFL by her 
employment union, to discuss her retirement needs. So, if HFL, a professional adviser 
whose expertise she had sought on recommendation from her union, had provided her with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for 
her or in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think HFL should compensate Ms M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms M, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for HFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Ms M would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Ms M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. She has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Ms M. So, HFL must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although Ms M was effectively medically retired at the point of the advice, I dont 
think shed have taken benefits under the DB scheme prior to her normal retirement age of 
65, but for the unsuitable advice. So, compensation should be based on her normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Ms acceptance of the decision.
HFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms M within 90 days of the date HFL receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes HFL to pay Ms M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect HFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hilltop Finance Limited 
to pay Ms M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Hilltop Finance Limited to pay Ms M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Hilltop 
Finance Limited to pay Ms M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Hilltop Finance Limited pays Ms M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms M.
If Ms M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hilltop Finance Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman