DRN-2328650
The complaint
Ms S has complained about fees and charges added to her mortgage account by Paratus 
AMC Limited. and that Paratus has been unsympathetic to her financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms S has a mortgage with Paratus taken out in September 2002. The mortgage is in the joint 
names of Ms S and her former husband. He has had no involvement with the mortgage 
account for some years and so Ms S brings this complaint in her sole name. Our rules allow 
for this.
The mortgage was for £74,500 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 18 years. 
Although the term has now come to an end, in January 2019 Paratus extended it for five 
years.
On 14 February 2019 Ms S complained to Paratus about fees and charges applied to her 
mortgage account. She thought these were unfair and wanted them to be refunded. Paratus 
said to Ms S that she was out of time to complain about fees and charges applied more than 
six years before the complaint had been raised.
Paratus was satisfied that fees and charges applied after 14 February 2013 had been 
applied fairly, and in accordance with the account terms and conditions, other than a single 
fee of £39 applied in January 2019, which Paratus reversed.
Dissatisfied with Paratus response, Ms S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
not just about the fees, but about the way Paratus had dealt with her arrears (which are 
approximately £13,000).
The investigator noted that Ms S had complained in 2012 about fees and charges. Paratus 
had issued a final response letter on 31 October 2012 giving Ms S six months to complain to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. The final response covered fees and charges between 
2006 and 2012. The investigator also noted that there was a further complaint in 2018 about 
fees and charges and a final response was issued on 16 March 2018, again giving Ms S six 
months to complain to us. This covered fees and charges applied between 2012 and 2018. 
Ms S made a further complaint to Paratus 2019 about fees and charges, and arrears 
handling, and the final response was issued on 13 March 2019.  The complaint was first 
raised with us on 23 July 2019.
Although the investigator considered what Ms S had said about her circumstances, she 
didnt think there were any exceptional reasons why the complaints about earlier fees and 
charges couldnt have been raised with us within six months of the final response letters.
The investigator was satisfied that fees and charges applied since March 2018 had been 
applied fairly, where payment arrangements had failed. She noted that one fee of £39 
applied in January 2019 had been charged in error and reversed by Paratus. The 
investigator didnt think any other fees should be reimbursed.
The investigator was also satisfied that Paratus had treated Ms S fairly in relation to financial 
difficulties. Matters had been put on hold several times while Ms S was dealing with her 
divorce and while she was trying to sell the property. Paratus had also made payment 
arrangements with Ms S, it had refunded fees prior to March 2018 and had granted a three-
month payment holiday on the account.
In the circumstances, the investigator didnt think Paratus had done anything wrong, either in 
relation to fees applied to the account since March 2018 or in its handling of the arrears.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Ms S says that the account had been in arrears for over ten years, and the last 
six years are because she ahs been trying to pay a joint mortgage on her own. Ms S 
believes that, because of this, Paratus should issue a credit on fees added unfairly. 
Ms S has confirmed that she has now found a buyer for her house and so wants fees and 
charges to be refunded before the mortgage is repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules, where Paratus doesnt consent and where there are no exceptional 
circumstances to explain the delay, we cant consider a complaint brought more than six 
months after the final response letter. Im satisfied that we cant consider any of the issues 
raised in the final response letters dated 31 October 2012 and 16 March 2018, as these 
have been brought too late and there are no exceptional circumstances that would allow me 
to waive the time limits.
Ive looked at the fees and charges applied to the account since March 2018. These are 
detailed in the investigators letter dated 5 October 2020, a copy of which has been sent to 
Ms S and to Paratus  so I dont need to repeat all the details here.
Having reviewed the account history, including payments made and fees applied, Im 
satisfied that fees and charges applied to the account since March 2018 have been applied 
fairly, with one exception. That was in January 2019, after Paratus had extended the term of 
Ms Ss mortgage and reduced her payment. A fee of £39 was unfairly charged, which 
Paratus has since reversed.
Im satisfied that the other fees and charges added to the account since March 2018 have 
been fairly applied and so Im not asking Paratus to refund them.
Ms S also says Paratus treated her unfairly and unsympathetically in relation to her financial 
difficulties.
I fully appreciate that Ms S has been through difficult personal and financial circumstances, 
and I have every sympathy for her. But I cannot be swayed by emotion and I must therefore 
put aside my natural feelings of empathy for Ms S and review the case on the basis of the 
evidence and on Paratus regulatory obligations. 
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders, or CML)  also has its own guidelines 
about what it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the 
requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Having considered Ms Ss circumstances, Im satisfied that Paratus did what it could to help 
Ms S but, ultimately, the mortgage was unaffordable, even after the term was extended and 
the payment was reduced by about £400 per month in January 2019. Im satisfied that none 
of the other options Paratus could have considered would have made this mortgage 
affordable.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Paratus treated Ms S fairly in relation to her arrears. I 
appreciate Ms S is unlikely to see it that way, but given her circumstances, the options 
available to Paratus were very limited indeed.
I am glad to note that Ms S has now found a buyer for her property, and I hope that she will 
be able to make a fresh start in a new home without the worry of the mortgage arrears that I 
can see have caused her considerable anxiety over the years. I do sympathise with Ms Ss 
circumstances  which were made worse as a result of the breakdown of her marriage and (I 
am told by Ms S) by the failure of her former husband to support his family. 
I have no doubt this has been a very upsetting time for her. But, for the reasons stated 
above, I dont think Paratus has done anything wrong and so Im not going to order any 
refund of fees and charges or to pay any other redress to Ms S.
My final decision
My final decision is as follows:
only those fees and charges applied after March 2018 are within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service;
all fees and charges applied after March 2018 (other than the fee in January 2019 which 
Paratus AMC Limited refunded) have been applied fairly so I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint;
I dont uphold the complaint that Paratus AMC Limited treated Ms S unfairly in relation to 
her financial difficulties.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman