DRN-2264890
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced the 
credit limit on his credit card account without notice.
What happened
Mr H says Barclaycard unfairly reduced the credit limit on his credit card account in July 
2020. He says he received a letter about it dated 28 July 2020 but by that time the credit limit 
had been reduced from £4,000 to just over £3,000. Mr H says that caused significant 
problems as he had agreed to help a family member, using the available credit on the 
account. He would like an apology for what took place and for his credit limit increased back 
to what it was. He also says he has not missed payments and has a direct debit in place to 
pay £200 a month.
Barclaycard says its not made a mistake and is entitled to review customers credit limits and 
if necessary, make changes to them with or without notice. It says it reviewed Mr Hs 
account and concluded there was a high level of borrowing against low repayments.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and was entitled 
to reduce a credit limit with or without notice. The investigator didnt think it our role to 
interfere with Barclaycards commercial judgement about these matters.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard didnt give him enough time to respond 
to the reduction and has a moral duty to treat customers fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr H would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that Barclaycard can reduce 
a credit limit with or without notice. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard was entitled to reduce the 
credit limit on Mr Hs account and didnt make a mistake by not proving greater notice of that 
change. Im also satisfied that Barclaycard has explained the reasons for the credit limit 
reduction and the reduction was not below the amount Mr H owed Barclaycard.
I think its up to credit providers to make such decisions about credit limits when considering 
risk and when exercising its commercial judgement and is not something I can fairly interfere 
in. For that reason, I cant fairly order Barclaycard to increase the credit limit on Mr Hs 
account.
I appreciate Barclaycards decision affected Mr Hs ability to help a family member, but I 
have made clear that Im satisfied that it was entitled to reduce the credit limit. And Im 
satisfied that Barclaycards actions were fair and reasonable and that it was not obliged to 
provide greater notice of the reduction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman