DRN-4504310
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK (Aviva) caused delays when actioning his request 
to switch pension funds. He says this delay meant that planned further trades were also 
delayed and he has suffered a financial loss as a result.
 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I have only briefly summarised 
the key events below. 
In summary, Mr T is unhappy that a switch instruction he placed on 3 February 2022 didnt 
get actioned on 7 February 2022 as he expected. This seems to have happened because of 
a mistake and it took until 24 February 2022 for things to be corrected so that Mr T could 
make further fund switches. And Mr T subsequently complained to Aviva about this.
Aviva responded to Mr Ts complaint saying that on the one hand a mistake was made that 
caused the delay, but it also said that Aviva didnt make a mistake that requires any further 
financial compensation. Aviva said the original error occurred because Mr T submitted a 
switch instruction before a previous instruction had been completed. And that the mistake 
that was made was actually switching all of Mr Ts holdings to one fund instead of only 
switching a portion of it. On this basis, Aviva backdated Mr Ts 3 February 2022 instruction 
as a goodwill gesture and offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
mistaken 100% fund switch. Aviva said that otherwise, it didnt make a mistake that caused 
financial detriment.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to this Service for an independent 
review. 
One of our investigators looked into things and determined that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld because Aviva had corrected the initial error and awarded Mr T £100 compensation 
for the trouble this error caused him. The investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do more 
as she thought Mr T could have still placed fund switch instructions while the issues with the 
3 February 2022 instruction were being corrected.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
When the complaint was passed to me, I was unable to conclude from the evidence Id been 
provided that Mr T could in fact continue to make trades while the error was corrected, so I 
asked for a copy of the call between Mr T and Aviva on 10 February 2022, when the issue 
came to light, to see if he had been given this information over the phone. 
Having listened to the call, I was minded to reach a different conclusion to the investigator 
and wrote to the parties to let them know this. I explained:
Ive now listened to that call and from it Im persuaded of two things; first Mr T had a clear 
strategy to de-risk his portfolio over a short period of time and had been in the process of 
implementing that strategy. This was made very clear to the Aviva during this call. And 
second, at no time was Mr T informed that he could continue with his strategy while things 
were unsettled following his 3 February instruction. 
So with that in mind, Im unable to agree with the investigators assessment. 
Furthermore, it seems to me that the mistake that precipitated the issue was Aviva 
incorrectly actioning the redirection of future contributions instruction placed on 
2 February 2022 as a fund switch instruction. Based on everything Ive seen, but for this 
error, Mr Ts 3 February 2022 instruction could have proceeded as normal, and he could 
have then proceeded to make the additional switches he planned. As this was Avivas 
mistake, I think it needs to put Mr T in the position he would be in now if things had gone as 
they should have. This means Mr Ts subsequent fund switches would have happened 
sooner than they did, i.e. before 24 February 2022. 
Mr T has provided evidence of when the additional switch instructions were actually placed 
and details of when they would have been placed if things had gone as they should have. 
Im persuaded by the evidence that Mr T was adamant about making these switches and I 
dont think he would have delayed if he thought he had a choice. I cant see that Aviva made 
him aware of any alternatives to placing instructions online through the member site 
(something he couldnt do while things were being reconciled) and I note that as soon as he 
was able to make further switches online he did. 
Therefore, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and direct Aviva to conduct a loss 
calculation based on when the switch instructions should have happened. 
Based on what Ive seen, this means that Aviva should conduct a loss assessment as if the 
switch instructions listed below were given at the date listed if no mistake had occurred: 
Actual Instruction Date Instruction Date if No Mistake
24 February 2022 7 February 2022
01 March 2022 9 February 2022
4 March 2022 11 February 2022
8 March 2022 15 February 2022
I also consider a further £150 warranted for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr T by Avivas actions in this case. 
Mr T responded and accepted my initial findings. 
Aviva also responded, saying in relevant summary:
Throughout both our and your [Investigators] investigations, Mr T mentioned many times the 
reason he delayed until 24 February to place his next trade was because he had no online 
access, and 24 February was the first time he did, so he began placing switch instructions 
again. He alluded that hed tried from 2 February 2022 to 24 February 2022 to access online 
(which is not contractual access) to place trades and as soon as he could he did.  
This was the basis of our decision 
At no point has he mentioned he didnt think he could not place trades or wasnt told that he 
could. ..he appears to have been aware he could continue placing trades as he was 
attempting to online throughout that period. This being the case there was nothing stopping him doing this over the telephone or any 
other contractual avenue (post or email). However, he chose to wait to do them online which 
was his preferred method. This is also backed up by the fact he waited 6 days after the error 
had been rectified to place his next trade (18-24 February). Had he wanted to place what 
was his next one earlier he could have done this at any point (according to your latest view) 
from 18 February but again chose not to.
Aviva asked for my thoughts as it felt this was a change in position as Mr T hadnt before 
claimed he was never told he could continue to trade.
I responded explaining that Mr Ts complaint from the outset was that he could not continue 
selling down his portfolio until the error had been corrected and that Id not been provided 
with anything to persuade me that this wasnt the case. 
I also explained:
that the evidence indicates that everything wasnt settled on the 18 February as [Aviva] 
suggest[s] and it wasnt until 24 February that Mr Ts account actually reflected the 
instructions given on 3 February. Further, when Aviva contacted him for clarification 
regarding his instruction on 9 February 2022 he promptly responded on 19 February 2022 
and gave a clear explanation of what he thought had happened and what should have 
happened.
As you rightly note, Mr T tried to place instructions through the member site several times 
during the three weeks between 3 February and 24 February but wasnt able to. You say 
that Mr T could have continued to trade during this time, but Ive not seen anywhere that 
Aviva made him aware that this was possible. 
Mr T believed, and based on what Ive seen, I cant say unreasonably, that the system only 
allows one switch instruction at a time. So until the 3 February instruction was properly 
executed (and the other mistakes along the way corrected) I dont think I can reasonably say 
Mr T should have continued to place switch instructions, by any method, as he couldnt know 
theyd be actioned and wouldnt cause further confusion. 
Therefore, I am still minded to issue a final decision along the lines [of my previous 
correspondence].
Aviva provided no further comment or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the reasons explained to the parties as detailed above, I dont think 
Aviva has done enough to put right its mistake, so I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that Avivas mistake in actioning Mr Ts 
redirection of future contributions request as a switch instruction on 2 February 2022 is what 
caused his switch instruction on 3 February 2022 to fail. Had this not occurred, I consider it 
more likely than not that it would have been actioned on 7 February 2022. 
Furthermore, Ive seen insufficient evidence to allow me to conclude that Mr T was able to 
continue making trades while the 3 February 2022 instruction was still being corrected. This 
was not corrected, and online access wasnt available to Mr T again until 24 February 2022. Had he been able to make switch instructions earlier, I am persuaded by the evidence that 
he would have done so. The 10 February 2022 call between Mr T and Aviva, along with his 
subsequent trades, clearly demonstrates that Mr T had a definitive strategy in place to de-
risk his portfolio over a short period of time. But for Avivas mistakes, the switches Mr T 
made between 3 February 2022 and 9 March 2022 would have happened sooner. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr T into the position he would likely have 
been in, had it not been for Avivas error.
So to put things right, Aviva must:
conduct a loss assessment on Mr Ts pension fund comparing the current value with 
what the plan would now be worth if the switch instructions listed below were given at 
the date listed if no mistake had occurred: 
Actual Instruction Date Instruction Date if No Mistake
24 February 2022 7 February 2022
01 March 2022 9 February 2022
4 March 2022 11 February 2022
8 March 2022 15 February 2022
If a loss is identified, then the loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ts pension plan. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to 
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr T would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
I understand Mr T has also taken a tax-free cash lump sum from his pension plan. If 
the value of his fund at the date this was paid is calculated to have been higher as a 
result of the loss assessment above, then Mr T would have been entitled to a larger 
lump sum if no mistakes had been made. Therefore, any difference in the tax-free 
cash should be paid direct to Mr T plus 8% interest from the date the tax-free cash was 
originally paid to the date of this decision. 
I also consider a further £150 warranted for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr T by Avivas actions in this case.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay him compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman