DRN-2941466
The complaint
Mr M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) are refusing to cancel a 
finance agreement for a car he didnt take receipt of.  
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo on 18 September 2019. The deal 
was brokered by a dealership Ill call D.
D sourced the car through another dealership Ill call S and Mr M was asked to collect the 
car from them. But when Mr M visited S and inspected the car he says he wasnt happy with 
it. He noted it didnt have an MOT and the engine management light was on. So, he says he 
rejected the car and S promised they would tell D and ensure the finance agreement was 
cancelled.
So, Mr M was confused in November 2019 to find that payments had been taken from his 
account. He says these were refunded but later, in May 2020, he noticed payments had 
been taken again.
He contacted MotoNovo who explained in their final response that if there were faults with 
the car they would approve rejection but as the car could not be traced (S were no longer 
trading) they had no proof of any faults with it and couldnt cancel the finance agreement.
Mr M wasnt happy with MotoNovos response. He referred his complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided his view.
The investigator didnt think it was fair for MotoNovo to hold Mr M responsible for a car hed 
never taken receipt of. He thought they should end the finance agreement and remove any 
adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file. He noted that Mr M had already 
had any payments hed made towards the agreement refunded.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said that there was no evidence of any 
fault with the car and even if there was they had a right to repair it. They explained that the 
car could no longer be found, and they said Mr M had failed to comply with the terms of his 
contract that required him to keep possession of the car. They said this had caused them 
significant loss.
The complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M was financing the car through a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr M had a short term right to end the finance agreement if there was something wrong with 
the car he was financing and if he reported that fault within the first 30 days. 
I think its likely there was something wrong with the car. I say that because:
Mr Ms testimony has been consistent throughout. Looking at MotoNovos file notes 
its clear he has always suggested he rejected the car because there was a fault with 
it. Hes explained to us that the engine management light was illuminated and that he 
understood there was no MOT. 
Mr Ms testimony is corroborated by the MOT records that show this car has never 
been MOTd.
MotoNovos file notes show that they contacted D on 6 May 2020. D explained:
They (S) were aware that the vehicle has issues that were supposed to be rectified 
at the point of sale and went on to say confirmed the customer didnt take the 
vehicle at the point of sale and the garage have kept it and The dealership are 
accepting the rejection and will return the funds when they're able to due to covid-
19.
So, as I think its likely there was a fault with the car that was reported in the first 30 days I 
think MotoNovo should have allowed Mr M to reject it and have ended his finance 
agreement.
MotoNovo have asked us to review another decision this service has made that they say is 
at odds with the investigators view. I dont think that case would alter my position. The 
investigator explained that in that case the consumer took the car home and didnt simply 
leave it at the dealership. I think theres compelling evidence here that Mr M left the car with 
S and never accepted it and that he invoked his short term right to reject the vehicle.
I dont think its fair to suggest it was his responsibility to relay that to D or to MotoNovo. I 
think its likely he would have considered S were a partner of Ds and I dont think he would 
have had reason to suspect they would not convey his rejection of the car to D and through 
them to B.
  
Putting things rightMotoNovo should end the finance agreement and they should ensure that any finance 
instalments Mr M has made to them have been returned to him. 
Theyll also need to ensure that the agreement is removed from Mr Ms credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement;
ensure any finance instalments that have been paid by Mr M have been refunded to 
him;
remove the credit agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman