DRN-3823268
The complaint
Miss M complains that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to have agreed
credit for her.
What happened
CCP provided Miss M with a loan of £660 in April 2021. The total amount of £3,036 including
interest and charges was to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £84 (figures rounded). 
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss M provided
CCP with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss M didnt make her loan repayments
it could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of her vehicle. 
Miss M says that CCP should not have agreed to lend to her because of the amount of 
existing debt she had.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and recommended that it be upheld.
They found that CCP should have seen from the information it had that Miss M wasnt likely
to be able to meet her repayments.
CCP didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2022 
explaining why I thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. I allowed some time for both 
parties to comment on what Id said or provide any further information they wished me to 
consider when making my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, and having no new information to consider, Ive found no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again for upholding 
Miss Ms complaint in this final decision on the matter.
As Id said in my provisional decision, CCP will be aware of the relevant regulations so I will 
summarise them here and refer to them where appropriate. CCP needed to check that 
Miss M could afford to meet her repayments out of her usual means without having to 
borrow further, without missing any of her existing obligations and without experiencing 
significant adverse impacts. CCP was required to take reasonable steps to estimate 
Miss Ms income and (non-discretionary) expenditure. CCP also needed to have regard to 
any information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated that Miss M was 
in, had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties.
The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to Miss Ms interests
and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main consideration is did CCP complete reasonable and proportionate
checks when assessing Miss Ms application to satisfy itself that she would be able to make
her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what would reasonable
and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did CCP make a fair and responsible
lending decision?
CCP asked Miss M about her income and expenditure before agreeing the loan. It checked
these figures against her payslips and bank statements and discussed them with her. It also
checked Miss Ms credit file. It estimated that Miss Ms net monthly income was £1,548 and
her expenses came to £1,345. This included the loan repayment of £84. This left Miss M
with an estimated surplus of about £200 a month after meeting her loan payments and so it
seemed she would be able to meet her repayments without difficulty.
I think CCP was right to ask Miss M about her income and expenditure and look to
independently verify this information. After all, she would need to meet her repayments for
three years and the consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that she might
lose her car. However, Ive reviewed the information CCP gathered from Miss M and I dont 
think it treated her fairly when it agreed to lend to her on this occasion.
Ive noted that Miss Ms payslips from the time show that her usual income, excluding
bonuses was lower than the figure CCP used at £1,480 a month. The bank statements
show it as £1,490.
Miss M said in her application that she had a defaulted loan of £19,000 which she was
repaying at £50 a month and a county court judgement of £80, which was in dispute. CCP
checked Miss Ms credit file. It hasnt provided the record of what it saw but noted that she
had £28,000 of outstanding debt and total County Court Judgement awards (CCJs) of
£2,216. CCP included a monthly payment of £148 for an active loan and £50 for a proposed
payment plan, which seems to be regarding the large default.
I dont think CCP included any payment Miss M was making, or should have been making,
towards her CCJs. This would come to around £40 a month if she were to repay these over
five years, for example. The statements also show that Miss M was making and receiving
payments from her partner and parents. Miss M told us that her parents lent her money to
buy a car and she was repaying them at £100 a month, which does seem to be supported by
her bank statements. Miss M also told us that she was paying her partner back for money
borrowed, but there are many transfers back and forth between them so it is difficult to say
that this was in fact the case and not that they were sharing their finances.
Considering the above figures, it seems to me that Miss M wouldnt have anything left over
after meeting her loan repayments to meet any unexpected or unaccounted for costs. CCP
says it included £150 in its assessment for discretionary expenses, which included
entertainment, eating out and clothing. 
Leaving aside any further comment on these discretionary items, I think CCP should have 
been seriously concerned that further credit would be unsuitable for Miss M, given the level 
of debt it could see that she had and the level of repayment she was currently making, or 
was intending to make, towards this.
Miss M says she had other debts at the time which werent showing on her credit file. These
included a guarantor loan, overdrafts and credit cards. Miss M has provided some
information which supports what she says about having yet more debt, including an income
and assessment carried out by a national debt charity two years prior to taking out this loan
which shows debts of over £37,000 with a total monthly commitment of over £1,800.Having considered everything carefully, Ive found that CCP shouldnt have agreed to
lend to Miss M on the basis of the information it had. And, had it looked into her
circumstances in more depth, wouldnt have been reassured that Miss M could meet her
repayments without experiencing adverse impacts on her financial situation. So Ive 
concluded that CCP was irresponsible to have lent to Miss M on this occasion and it needs 
to put things right for her.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss M, CCP should:
Waive the outstanding balance on the loan and cap the amount Miss M needs to 
repay at the £600* she borrowed; and
Consider all payments made by Miss M as payments towards the capital; and
oRefund any overpayments to Miss M, along with 8% simple interest per 
annum** to these overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of 
refund: or
oIf an outstanding capital balance remains, then come to an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss M; and
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Ms credit file, once 
settled; and
Revoke the Bill of Sale for Miss Ms car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
* I understand that there was a fee of £60 added to the loan amount and Miss M actually
received £600.
**HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Ms complaint against CarCashPoint 
Limited and require it to put things right for her as outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman