DRN-3805624
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the fact that his former motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited, 
(UKI) decided to cancel his policy after it said he had misrepresented information he had 
provided to it. 
All references to UKI include its agents.
 
What happened
Mr A had taken out a motor insurance policy with UKI in September 2017. In August 2018 
UKI wrote to him to say that it had concerns about the accuracy of some of the information 
hed provided when the policy was taken out. UKI said its policy terms gave it the right to 
cancel the policy at any time by giving Mr A 14 days notice in writing  assuming there is a 
valid reason for doing so. It added that if Mr A no longer required the policy or wanted to 
cancel it before the 14-day period he could request this by calling UKI. Once the policy was 
cancelled, it said it would provide Mr A with a pro rata refund of his premium. 
 
Mr A said he sought help from his mother as he has dyslexic tendencies and they called UKI 
to find out why it was planning on cancelling his policy. They were told he had provided 
incorrect answers in relation to his relationship status, whether he was a homeowner and 
whether there were children under 16 living at his property.
 
Mr A wasnt happy about UKIs decision and complained in August 2021. He said UKI had 
never provided him with a proper explanation as to why his policy had been cancelled or with 
any evidence to show hed provided incorrect information.
UKI responded and said it was right to cancel the policy. It said that Mr A had been sent his 
policy documents after the policy was taken out which had a clear instruction to check all 
details for accuracy and to contact UKI immediately if there were any errors. UKI said Mr A 
said he was a homeowner which wasnt the case, and also took out an insured and partner 
policy when the named driver was one of his parents. UKI said this resulted in Mr A having a 
financial gain of £384.16 (as this was the additional cost it would have charged him if he had 
given it the correct information). It added that it thought the policy had been set up by an 
unauthorised broker. 
Mr A said he never used an unauthorised broker and always uses a price comparison 
website to take out insurance. He said if any information was provided in error this would 
have been an innocent mistake. He asked for a copy of his policy application form and any 
information about the unauthorised broker but said UKI had not provided either. 
Mr A then complained to us. He said having a cancellation on his record is affecting his 
ability to take out insurance and the premiums he is being quoted are much higher than 
before. And that this is also affecting other family members. He asked for the cancellation to 
be removed from his record. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint. She asked for evidence regarding the 
questions Mr A was asked when he took the policy out, UKIs relevant underwriting criteria 
and details regarding the unauthorised broker. She also asked whether UKI thought the 
misrepresentation was careless, deliberate or reckless. UKI responded to say that it was no 
longer able to get a copy of the application form due to the length of time that had passed 
and that the information Mr A had provided fitted the pattern of policies set up by 
unauthorised brokers. But it provided a copy of its current application form. UKI said it 
thought the misrepresentation was reckless.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that the 
application form UKI provided wasnt from 2017 when Mr A took the policy out but accepted 
that the relevant questions were likely to be similar. She thought that the questions regarding 
children under 16 and Mr As relationship status were clear but couldnt find that Mr A had 
been asked about homeownership. She concluded that, on balance, Mr A misrepresented 
his relationship status but she thought any misrepresentation was careless and not reckless. 
She felt UKI had been entitled to cancel the policy, having already given Mr A the option to 
cancel it himself first. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said if he had been given the option to pay an additional premium he 
would have paid it so he could keep his policy. He added that UKI failed to show that he had 
provided information which was incorrect.  And that after rereading the cancellation letter he 
noted that he had been offered the option of cancelling the policy but there was no 
explanation as to the benefits of him cancelling the policy instead of UKI. 
UKI also responded to say that Mr A and his mother admitted that the information regarding 
homeownership, his relationship status and children under 16 at the home was incorrect in 
August 2018 when they called UKI and therefore that they had admitted the 
misrepresentation. 
UKI also provided its underwriting criteria which showed that the relationship status and 
homeownership answers would have both led to an increase in premium. Our Investigator 
maintained her view as the answer to the relationship question would have led to an 
increase in premium.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he could not understand 
why UKI cancelling the policy had such an impact on him whereas if hed cancelled it himself 
this would not have been the case. 
Before I issued my decision I went back to UKI and said that, in these very specific 
circumstances, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for it to record this as a cancellation 
by Mr A and not by itself. My reasons were:
That I had seen nothing in the evidence UKI had sent us to explain why there were 
suspicions regarding an unauthorised broker. 
Regarding his relationship status, I said that the relevant question was asking whether 
Mr A was in a relationship and not whether he was in a relationship with the named 
driver. So I didnt think UKI could rely on it to say there had been a misrepresentation. 
I also noted that on UKIs system Mr A was down as single and therefore concluded 
that he had provided the correct information regarding his status. 
I also thought that UKI hadnt shown that the information regarding children under 16 
was material to its decision as it wouldnt have acted differently (for example by charging 
a higher premium) and therefore did not amount to a qualifying misrepresentation. 
I thought it wasnt ideal not having the actual answer Mr A had provided to the 
homeownership question. And I didnt think it was reasonable for UKI to refer to the 
conversations it had with Mr A and his mother ten months after the policy was taken out 
(in August 2018) as evidence of what had happened in 2017. I said I didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mr A to remember the answers he had provided ten months earlier 
and didnt think I could put much weight on what was discussed in those conversations.
UKI responded to say that the issue with the unauthorised broker did not form the basis for 
its final decision. It added that Mr A was subsequently asked what his relationship was with 
the named driver and he chose partner. It repeated that Mr A was sent his policy 
documents which clearly state that he needs to check their accuracy and let UKI know 
 which he didnt do. It said it was at a loss to answer why Mr A wouldnt know what his 
answers were at inception. It added that this was probably not Mr As first insurance policy 
and that he would have been familiar with questions regarding home ownership, partnership 
etc. It added that its not clear why Mr A would answer these questions incorrectly if not for 
financial gain. It reiterated that it gave Mr A the option to cancel his policy and he did not 
take it. 
I went back to UKI to say that it now accepted that Mr A declared he was single. It 
nevertheless said that he misrepresented in relation to his relationship with the named 
driver. I pointed out this was not in the sample application form it had provided to us. And as 
it cant show what the exact question and answer were, I didnt think I could take this into 
account. But even if I did, as Mr A clearly said he was single I didnt think he 
misrepresented when he answered that question. And even if he had, I didnt think this 
would amount to anything more than a careless misrepresentation as Mr A clearly had 
already stated he was single. I also said I am not sure we can expect the average consumer 
to be as familiar with insurers questions as we are, especially as most consumers would 
only take out a policy once a year. And insurers questions can change from year to year so 
I said I did not think I could accept UKIs argument. I repeated that I thought it was right that 
UKI gave Mr A the opportunity to cancel the policy himself and I was persuaded that had 
Mr A known the repercussions involved, he would have cancelled the policy himself. I said I, 
therefore, thought that UKI should record this as a cancellation by Mr A. 
UKI responded to say that it accepts it hasnt been able to provide the actual questions 
asked but it assured our service that clear questions were asked and said that Mr A never 
disputed this. It added that Mr A has not been able to explain why incorrect answers were 
provided other than that this must have been a mistake. It said that a pro rata refund was 
issued and that this would not have happened if this was a deliberate misrepresentation. It 
said Mr A did not take the opportunity to cancel the policy despite it giving him this 
opportunity both in writing and verbally and therefore it didnt see what it had done wrong on 
this occasion.
 
Before I issued my decision I asked our Investigator to tell Mr A that I would be asking UKI to 
record this as a cancellation by him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it.
 
UKI said that its suspicion as to the use of an unauthorised broker did not form part of its 
decision to cancel the policy and I agree for the reasons I have given UKI. So I am not going 
to consider this issue further in my decision. 
The relevant law
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
UKI gave Mr A a pro rata refund after it cancelled his policy. It says this demonstrates it 
didnt consider his misrepresentation to have been deliberate (or reckless). But when our 
Investigator asked UKI it said it thought the misrepresentation was reckless. As at the time of 
cancellation UKI clearly considered it to be careless (by issuing a premium refund) and as it 
has now confirmed it didnt consider it to be deliberate (or reckless) I will proceed on the 
basis that it accepts the misrepresentation was careless. 
The questions asked
UKI says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering three questions. Those were whether he was a homeowner, what his relationship 
with the named driver was and whether there were children under 16 living at the home.
 
Due to the passage of time UKI says it is not able to provide us with the exact questions 
Mr A was asked at the time or his exact answers. It has provided us with a sample online 
journey of its current questions, screenshots of the information recorded on its system and 
its notes.
As I said to UKI it is not ideal that we dont have the exact questions or answers. So Ive had 
to rely on the current online journey to determine, on balance, what it is most likely that Mr A 
was asked at the time and the screenshots to determine, on balance, what his answers 
were. 
UKI said that Mr A called UKI in August 2018 to discuss the impending cancellation and 
accepted the misrepresentation by saying he wasnt a homeowner, he was not in a 
relationship with the named driver and did not have children. As I said to UKI, I dont think 
this is sufficient evidence as to what Mr A had answered ten months earlier and that I dont 
think it is reasonable to expect him to remember what his answers were ten months on. 
  
So Ive relied mainly on the current online journey and the screenshots. The relevant 
questions were:
Are there any children under 16 living in your household?
Do you own your home?
There is also an option to add additional drivers. UKI says that when adding a named driver 
Mr A would have been asked what his relationship to the named driver was.
 
As I said above, UKI hasnt shown me that the answer to the first question (regarding 
children under 16) would have made any difference to the premium or to its decision to 
provide cover. I therefore dont think the answer Mr A gave whether it was correct or not 
would amount to a qualifying misrepresentation. So I will not go on to consider this any 
further.
 In terms of the last question, as I told UKI it hasnt shown me what Mr A was or would have 
been asked after he inputted the details of the named driver in the system so I cant rely on 
the evidence it provided to decide whether the question was clear or not. And without this 
I cannot make a finding that Mr A failed to take reasonable care and therefore made a 
misrepresentation. But even if I thought the question was clear and I thought that Mr A failed 
to take reasonable care to provide the correct information (i.e. that he declared that the 
named driver was his partner rather than his parent) I would consider this to be a careless 
misrepresentation. This is because according to UKIs screenshots Mr A was down as being 
single on its system. So hed already answered single to a question about his relationship 
status which to me shows that he, at most, carelessly declared that the named driver was his 
partner. 
In relation to the question regarding homeownership I think this was a clear question. The 
screenshots I have seen show Mr A as being a homeowner which Mr A admits was not 
correct. So, on balance, I think Mr A failed to take reasonable care to provide accurate 
information and that this amounted to a careless misrepresentation  which UKI accepts. 
UKI said that Mr A had the opportunity to check his policy documents after he took the policy 
out and let it know if any information was incorrect. But as I have already accepted there was 
a misrepresentation I will not consider this argument further. And even if I thought Mr A had 
misrepresented in relation to all three questions the actions UKI would have taken would 
have been the same. As I explain below, it would have charged a higher premium in any 
event.
Would the policy have been offered on different terms?
UKI has provided us with underwriting criteria which shows that had Mr A declared he wasnt 
a homeowner his premium would have been higher. And this also applies to the question 
about the named driver and their relationship. So UKI has demonstrated that had it been 
provided with correct information it would have acted differently i.e. by charging a higher 
premium. This means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And for 
the reasons Ive already given I thought this misrepresentation was careless  and UKI 
agrees. 
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions UKI can take in accordance with CIDRA. In cases where the insurer would have still 
offered cover, CIDRA says that where there is a qualifying misrepresentation and it is 
careless but there was no claim the insurer can change the terms of the policy or reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on any future claim or give notice to cancel the policy. 
Or it can continue to offer the policy on different terms and/or settle any future claim 
proportionately but in that case the consumer can choose to cancel. 
As I said above UKI gave Mr A notice that it would cancel the policy and proceeded to do so 
14 days later. I thought this was fair and reasonable and in line with CIDRA. But it also gave 
Mr A the option to cancel the policy himself. Mr A said if he had known of the implications 
and the difference between having a cancellation made by his insurer as opposed to 
cancelling the policy himself, he would have chosen to cancel the policy. I find this argument 
persuasive particularly as Mr As main source of unhappiness relates to the effect UKIs 
cancellation has had on his subsequent insurance premiums. So, on balance, I think Mr A 
would have cancelled the policy himself. 
In these very specific circumstances; which include the fact that UKI hasnt been able to 
provide the exact questions or the exact answers Mr A provided when he took the policy out 
and the fact that Mr A told us and UKI that he has dyslexic tendencies; I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for UKI to record this as a cancellation by Mr A. I think it is a reasonable outcome in these circumstances because of the serious impact a cancellation 
can have on a consumer and the premiums they have to pay thereafter. 
Mr A says he has taken out other insurance policies since which have had very high 
premiums due to the cancellation he has on his record. Once UKI amends its record he can 
go back, if he wishes, to ask his other insurers to recalculate his premiums and issue a 
refund if appropriate. I have thought about whether UKI should pay the difference in his 
premiums but as, on balance, I thought Mr A had made a careless misrepresentation I wont 
ask UKI to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance 
Limited to amend any relevant internal and external databases so that this is recorded as a 
cancellation by Mr A and not by it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman