DRN-1519017
 
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance (UK) Ltd (AXA) has dealt with her home 
emergency claim. 
What happened
 Mrs E contacted AXA as she was experiencing problems with her heating system. It 
instructed a third party engineer to attend and it diagnosed that a power flush would be 
required to fix the issue. As Mrs Es policy didnt cover for a power flush, she contacted 
another company to do this. The power flush was conducted but this didnt solve the problem 
and that engineer found a number of issues which needed to be rectified before doing 
another power flush. The heating system then worked.
Mrs E felt that the first power flush wasnt necessary. She felt that AXA hadnt advised her of 
what she should explain to the other heating contractors who carried out the power flush and 
so she complained to AXA. She requested reimbursement of the cost of the first power flush. 
 AXA didnt uphold her complaint and maintained that the power flush was necessary as 
there had been a large blockage in the system, which required the first and additional power 
flushes. 
Mrs E was unhappy and brought the complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that AXA had acted fairly. He said 
that AXA couldnt be held responsible for Mrs E not explaining the problems she was 
experiencing with her heating system. He also concluded that AXA didnt misinform Mrs E. 
Mrs E didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
I have read Mrs Es policy and it is clear that maintenance repairs such as power flushes 
arent covered. The issue here is whether AXA misinformed Mrs E that she required a power 
flush. 
I have been provided with a report from the AXA engineer, in it he states that an assessment 
took place and following that he found that there was no heating or hot water. He found there 
was a circulation problem and as a result, he diagnosed the power flush. Although the engineer didnt carry out the power flush, he carried out an assessment and 
found there to be a build up of debris. He is an expert and his diagnosis of a power flush was 
carried out by another company. Mrs E hasnt provided sufficient evidence to show that 
AXAs engineer misdiagnosed the fault and its remedy. 
From the evidence that I have read, there was no guarantee that power flushes would be 
successful. So the fact that Mrs E had to have another power flush didnt mean that the first 
one was misdiagnosed nor did it mean that it wasnt necessary.  Also, AXA werent the 
company who carried out the power flush. So I think its reasonable for AXA to rely on the 
experts diagnosis as a reason why it couldnt reimburse Mrs E. 
Ive next thought about whether AXA shouldve explained to Mrs E that she needed to 
describe the faults she was experiencing to the other heating engineers. Mrs E said that she 
told the engineer what AXA told her, that is, that her system needed a power flush. 
Whilst I accept that she may have done this, I think it is still her responsibility to report 
everything that was wrong with her heating system. I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
that engineer to carry out an assessment, just as the AXA engineer had. 
Whilst I can see how strongly Mrs E feels and how disappointing this will be, I dont think 
AXA have acted unfairly by relying on its experts report, in its refusal to reimburse Mrs E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman