DRN-2071278
The complaint
Mr C complains about a Payment Protection Policy (PPI) sold to him by Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) trading at the time of sale as TSB) in 1994.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in April 1994 on a credit card. Mr C says 
Lloyds mis-sold it to him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. As both parties are not in agreement still, 
Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint and I will explain why.
I first of all looked into whether or not Mr C was given a choice to have the PPI policy. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out PPI 
and he chose to take out this cover  although due to the amount of years that have passed 
I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs 
credit card application form. This included a section for PPI. A box has been ticked and Mr C 
signed the form, agreeing for PPI to be added to his credit card. So, I think this reflected 
what he wanted at the time. 
Mr C says the box couldve been ticked after he signed the form. But based on what I know 
of how Lloyds carried out its sales at that time, the documentation I have seen, and without 
further evidence to support his view on this, I cant safely conclude on this occasion that this 
was the case. 
Its not clear whether Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr C to take the PPI policy. But as 
this would put more responsibilities on Lloyds, I will proceed that this is the case. It needed 
to ensure that the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C. Based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. Ive also considered what Mr C has said about his 
sick pay at the time (17 weeks full and 17 weeks half sick pay_ but I think he would have 
found value in having the cover as it would have paid out for an extended period of time 
longer than his sick pay. So, I think the cover was suitable and I think it wouldve been useful 
for him had he needed to make a claim. 
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. So, I dont think better 
information about PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mr C. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mr C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
cover to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman