DRN-1783037
 
The complaint
Ms L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms L bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms L's complaint, and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms L says Barclaycard didn't give her a proper choice about buying the PPI. But I 
note that her credit card application form was completed to show that she wanted the 
policy. There was other insurance available on the application from, but it seems Ms 
L chose not to take that. So I think Ms L would've realised the PPI was optional. 
Without anything else to support what Ms L has told me, I don't think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Barclaycard didn't make her aware the PPI was optional. 
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Ms L. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even though Ms 
L says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to those benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she couldnt work. Ms L 
has also told me that she had some savings, although she hasn't been able to 
provide evidence of the amount she says she has. And I understand Ms L used her 
savings to pay for home improvements. So I don't think I can safely say that Ms L's 
savings would've been readily available to her if she'd been off work sick. On 
balance, I think the policy would've provided a useful benefit to Ms L if things went 
wrong. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Ms L would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman