DRN-4417145
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Highway Insurance Company Limiteds decision to cancel his 
home insurance policy and reject his claim for storm damage citing an exclusion for fraud.
What happened
The background is well known to both parties and set out in more detail in my provisional 
decision. So Ive summarised what happened below. 
Mr M made a claim to Highway Insurance Company under his home insurance policy for 
damage following a storm. Included in his claim for property damage was a claim for 
chimney pots from his roof. 
Highway declined the claim and cancelled his policy, citing its fraud exclusion. It said the 
chimney pots Mr M claimed for were never there. 
Mr M complained to Highway, but it didnt uphold his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
Highway had been unfair and recommended Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Highway didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. I issue a provisional decision 
on 19 September 2023. I thought Highway had acted reasonably, so I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree. Hes provided a detailed response with a separate response from his 
legal representative which Ill refer to as L and which Ive addressed in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, Highway can cancel a policy and decline a claim if it 
believes a condition of the policy has been breached, which in this case was in the event of 
fraud. In my provisional decision I wrote the following:
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, 
I need to decide if Highway acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and 
taking the action it has. So Ive looked at what Highway has taken into account, and 
whether I think this was fair.
When Mr M called Highway to report damage caused by a tornado, he said that 
some of the pots had been lost from a rear chimney stack. He explained that he 
thought some of the chimney pots come off. Highway said it would send a Surveyor 
out to visit the property. Mr M said he couldnt quite see properly and somebody 
would need to go up on a ladder and look because he couldnt access the area.
A Surveyor visited Mr Ms property to inspect the damage on behalf of Highway. He 
provided photos taken at ground level of the front and rear of the property . These 
photos showed there were three chimney pots for the front chimney stack and one 
chimney pot for the rear chimney stack. Mr M had said there were one or two missing 
chimney pots from the rear chimney stack which had been lost when the tornado 
struck.
The Surveyor reported concerns to Highway. He said there was no sign of debris to
evidence that chimney pots had been lost during the tornado. Online images of Mr 
Ms property from 2009 to September 2022 didnt show more than one chimney pot 
to the rear of the property.
Highway called Mr M to discuss his claim in light of the concerns raised by the 
Surveyor. Ive listened carefully to the recording of that call - provided by Highway 
and Mr M.
Key comments from Mr M in relation to the claim for damaged chimney pots to the 
rear of the property are as follows:
At around six minutes 30 seconds, Mr M said there was damage to guttering, 
outbuilding and chimney stacks. He explained that he has two chimney stacks and 
that the front one seemed ok. He said the rear chimney stack was most affected by 
the tornado and that there was one chimney pot left when he believes there were 
three, from memory.
Mr M went on to explain that he cant evidence this without a photo and hed looked 
at his phone (for photos). He went on to say that there might be damage to the 
chimney stack but he cant be sure - although I do know at least one or two chimney 
pots have been removed.
Highway asked Mr M when was the last time he knew that all the pots that should be 
there were in place and in order. Mr M said up until the day of the event, he noticed it 
immediately after the event.
At around eight minutes, Mr M said; well Im in the garden everyday - there was no 
damage to .chimney pots were intact. As I said, there were three and now there is 
one
Highway asked Mr M if he were to put a timescale on this, when was the last time he 
knew there were three pots up there. Mr M replied; the day I would say - quite 
categorically - the day I knew there were three chimney pots up there was the day 
before.
Highway asked Mr M if he had undertaken any work to the chimney pots in the years 
he had lived at the property. Mr M confirmed hed had a flu fitted at the front, but no 
works carried out to the rear chimney.
At around nine minutes, Highway repeated back to Mr M his statement that 
categorically the day before there were three chimney pots (at the rear chimney 
stack) and Mr M replied yes.So I think Mr M was very clear when he answered Highways questions about his 
claim for damaged chimney pots to the rear chimney stack.
Highway has relied on online images of Mr Ms property showing one chimney pot to 
the rear chimney stack. Mr M says its possible that the chimney pots couldnt be 
seen from the ground. However, I agree with Highway that on looking at these 
images and the Surveyors photos, there is visible flaunching (material holding the 
chimney pot in place) around the one chimney pot at the rear chimney stack - so its 
reasonable to expect to see the same for the missing chimney pots Mr M claimed for. 
And the Surveyor reported there was no debris to evidence tornado damage 
consistent with Mr Ms claim for at least one or two missing chimney pots.
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries when investigating a claim. I 
understand Mr M says he feels Highway tricked him into saying what he did about 
the chimney pots. But I cant agree. Mr M reported the damage to the chimney pots 
when he first made his claim.
Mr M discussed this part of his claim with the Surveyor when he visited. And I think 
Mr M had no doubt about when he last viewed the chimney pots he claimed for - 
being the day before the tornado. He used the phrase quite categorically which I 
find compelling - and so I can understand why Highway reached the decision it did.
There is no evidence to show there was more than one chimney pot to the rear 
chimney stack of Mr Ms home before the tornado struck - and no evidence of 
damage caused leading to the loss of a second or third pot by the tornado.
So, putting all of its concerns together, I dont think it was unreasonable for Highway 
to decide the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And having reached 
that conclusion, I dont think Highway acted unreasonably. I think it was entitled to 
cancel the policy and add a fraud marker against Mr Ms record with a fraud 
prevention agency.
Mr M and his legal representative have provided detailed responses to my provisional 
decision. I have summarised the points raised below with my replies:
Mr M has provided details of the weather conditions at the time the event occurred. It isnt in 
dispute as to whether a tornado or storm occurred. This isnt the reason why his claim has 
been declined. 
Mr M says that he had swept away the debris following the storm - and so this explains why 
the Surveyor found no evidence of debris from the damage pots when he visited. But 
because there is no other evidence of chimney pots having ever been there, this point 
doesnt change the outcome. I would also say that L in his response says that it is common 
ground that there were no chimney pots, which seems inconsistent with Mr Ms statement. 
Mr M says he asked the Surveyor to inspect the flashing but he hadnt brought ladders to 
inspect the roof. Mr M says if the Surveyor had inspected his roof at the time, he would have 
established if it had sustained any damage to his satisfaction - and could have negated any 
risk of a dispute afterwards between Mr M and Highway. 
We dont consider it unreasonable for a Surveyor not to physically inspect a roof, given 
Highway had accepted the claim. I think the information provided by the Surveyor and Highway has shown its investigation was reasonable and decision was reached in a fair and 
reasonable way. 
Mr M says the redacted Surveyor report he received has no estimate of costs for the works. 
He believes Highway may have falsified the Surveyor report as Ive referred to comments 
made by the Surveyor which he hasnt seen in the redacted report. He suspects Highway 
looked online for the images of his roof after receiving the Surveyors report. 
I havent seen anything to suggest the Surveyors report was falsified by Highway. The 
Surveyor provided comments to Highway in a separate email - so this wasnt attached to the 
report. It was the Surveyor who set out his concerns as to the validity of the claim. There 
was no estimate for costs as the Surveyor didnt provide any. 
To clarify, when I said in my provisional decision that Highway had looked at online images, 
these images had been provided to Highway by the Surveyor - and are within the redacted 
report provided to Mr M.
Mr M has obtained estimates for the damage and says only 5% of the costs relate to the 
chimney pots in question. 
This isnt relevant. The issue is that Highway found that Mr M tried to claim for items he 
wasnt entitled to. And so it is entitled to decline the claim in full when applying the fraud 
exclusion, which it did. 
Mr M has asked if it was reasonable to have expected him to remember how many chimney 
pots there were when Highway called him to discuss the Surveyors report. 
I think Highway asked Mr M clear questions and as I set out in my provisional decision, 
based on Mr Ms answers, I think Highway fairly reached the decision it did. Mr M was - in 
his own words - quite categorical - that he had seen the chimney pots from the garden the 
day before - so immediately before the storm. I therefore think these later statements 
supersede his earlier comments about his memory of the existence of chimney pots, which 
may have suggested an element of doubt. 
Mr M says Highway should have shared its concerns with him before it called him. However, 
Highway had concerns that Mr M was claiming for something that wasnt there before the 
storm. And so asking questions of Mr M was entirely appropriate. Had Mr M been less 
certain or assured in his responses, I believe its more likely than not that the outcome would 
have been different. 
Mr M believes Highway hasnt complied with the CII code of ethics. But I havent found any 
evidence to support this. 
Mr Ms legal representative L says it is now common ground that there were no chimney 
pots. This isnt consistent with Mr Ms statement that he had cleared debris from the 
damaged pots a couple of days after the storm. 
L is concerned that Highway provided a recording of the claim notification call after the 
Investigator issued their view. I see nothing wrong with this. Highway didnt agree with the 
view and was given - as was Mr M - an opportunity to provide new representations. This call 
was provided to show that Mr M listed the damage to his property (including the chimney 
pots) since the outset of his claim. The key evidence in deciding the outcome of the claim is 
in the call I have quoted from above. Mr M has a copy of this call recording as he too 
provided us with a copy of it.L says it is unfair that a copy of the claim notification call hasnt been made available. I dont 
know if Mr M requested a copy of this call from Highway. If Mr M would like a copy of the 
claim notification call, he can ask Highway for this. 
L says Highway hasnt provided a written reason for its decision to reject the claim or cancel 
the insurance. 
Highway provided letters dated 6 April 2023 and 20 April 2023 clearly setting out its reasons 
and its decision to Mr M. Mr M responded to these letters and so Im satisfied he received 
them. 
L says I havent taken into consideration Mr Ms comments that he wasnt sure and that his 
answers were from memory. As Ive said, as the conversation continued, Mr M was assured 
in his responses that he saw the chimney pots every day from his garden up until the day 
before the storm. 
L has commented on the tests a court would apply in determining fraud. And L has 
questioned the test this service has applied when determining that Highway hasnt acted 
unreasonably in deciding the fraud condition of the policy had been breached  including 
whether a criminal standard of beyond reasonable doubt would apply.
Ive taken into account the law in reaching this decision. And in all cases this service deals 
with, we need to try to establish what was more likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities, based on the available evidence. And so this is the test Ive applied here. While 
fraud is a serious allegation, and potentially a criminal offence, the test I have to apply is still 
whether it is more likely than not that Mr M committed fraud. Although L has indicated hes 
seen no summation or reasoned decision to show how Highway has established fraud in this 
case, Ive outlined in my provisional decision the key material evidence that Highway has 
sought to rely on. 
So after carefully considering the representations from Mr M and L, my final decision 
remains the same as my provisional decision as they have not changed my view. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman