DRN-2964302
The complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint LeasePlan, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then LeasePlan, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr J. This was a brand-new car 
and I dont think a reasonable person would expect anything to be wrong with it.
Mr J has had quite a few problems with the car since he took control of it in April 2019. The 
car has been back to the dealership for repairs to the brakes, an engine management fault 
and gearbox issues, Mr J also reported unusual rattles, all within the first four months a 
period in which he appears to have returned the car to the dealership at least five times.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have so many problems with a brand-new 
car and I dont think its been of satisfactory quality. 
The relevant legislation allows a business to repair faults that are present on a car at the 
point of supply. But the legislation only allows one opportunity for a business to do that. 
Here, LeasePlan have had several opportunities and in those circumstances they should 
have accepted Mr Js request to reject the car when he asked in September 2019.
Putting things right
LeasePlan should now allow Mr J to reject the car and end his finance agreement with them. 
They should collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Mr J paid an initial rental of £3,208.23. The agreement was set to run for 36 months and as I 
think the business should have allowed Mr J to reject the car after five months had passed 
(in September 2019) I think they should keep five thirty sixths of that initial rental. But they 
should refund the rest to Mr J, adding interest as hes been deprived of that money. I 
calculate the refund as £2,762.64.
Ive considered our published guidelines to think about how much compensation to tell 
LeasePlan to pay Mr J in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. Hes 
had to take the car back to the dealership on several occasions and has been making 
requests to reject the car since September 2019, to which LeasePlan have been slow to 
respond. Mr J has explained that hes had difficulty transporting elderly relatives in the two-
door courtesy car that was provided.  I think the business mistakes have caused 
considerable distress, upset and inconvenience and thats clearly lasted for many months. 
So, I would agree with the investigators suggestion that LeasePlan pay Mr J £500 in 
compensation.
Its only fair that Mr J pays for the use hes had from the car, but that use has been impaired. 
Hes had to take the car back to the dealership on several occasions and has been provided 
with an unsuitable courtesy car that I think would have increased fuel costs. His enjoyment 
of the car will also have been impacted and hes clearly not wanted to keep it for as long as 
hes had to. In the circumstances, I think LeasePlan should refund 20% of all the finance 
instalments Mr J has paid in respect of the loss of use and enjoyment hes experienced. 
Theyll need to apply interest to that refund too as Mr J has been deprived of the money.
final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell LeasePlan UK Limited to:
allow Mr J to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr J;
refund £2,762.64 of the initial rental paid, in line with the reasoning Ive set out above. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
refund 20% of all finance instalments paid in respect of loss of use and enjoyment. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
pay Mr J £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Js credit file in relation to 
this issue.If the business has already made a payment towards settlement they can deduct that 
from any redress they provide under this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman