DRN-4021492
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) hasnt found an account she has a passbook 
for which shows she had £412.83 saved in 1985.
What happened
In 2022 Mrs Js mother found a passbook for a savings account with Lloyds shed set up for 
Mrs J in 1979. The last balance to be recorded in this passbook was £412.83 in November 
1985.
Mrs J and her mother liaised with Lloyds both in branch and over the phone in an effort to 
locate the account, but Lloyds was unable to do so. Lloyds also suggested Mrs J carry out a 
search on a website aimed at identifying lost bank accounts, but no information could be 
located.
Mrs J then raised a complaint with Lloyds. It said it couldnt look into her concerns as she 
had raised them too late according to the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Specifically, Lloyds said shed raised her complaint more than six years after 1985, when 
she ought to have known she had cause to complain. 
Mrs J remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our Service. She was of the view that 
because Lloyds couldnt prove what happened to the account, it ought to reimburse her the 
outstanding balance along with interest. She also felt Lloyds should compensate her for the 
time and money spent trying to resolve this issue.
Our Service contacted Lloyds and it advised that having reconsidered the complaint, it didnt 
think it had been raised too late. It noted Mrs J only knew she had cause to complain when 
the passbook was recently found. In relation to the merits of the complaint, Lloyds said it had 
made reasonable efforts to locate the account but was unable to do so and there was no 
evidence it had done anything wrong.
After reviewing the evidence, our Investigator was of the view that Lloyds had acted fairly 
and didnt need to take any further action. 
Mrs J disagreed. She felt that, given there was no proof the account was closed, Lloyds 
should give her the benefit of the doubt. 
As no agreement could be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before explaining my thoughts on this complaint, I just want to highlight that I have 
considered whether this complaint was brought within the time limits which apply. These are 
highlighted in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. DISP 2.8.2 
explains that a complaint must be brought to us within six years of the event being 
complained about, or, if later, within three years of when the consumer was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to complain.
I havent seen anything in the information that suggests Mrs J was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, of a cause for complaint over three years prior to the 
complaint being made. So, Im satisfied I can consider the merits of this complaint. 
I think it would be helpful to explain that passbooks offer a snapshot of an account at a 
particular point in time. The lack of further entries doesnt prove an account remains open or 
that there were no further withdrawals. And thats because new passbooks could be issued 
where old ones were lost, banks wouldnt refuse to allow consumers to withdraw their funds 
simply because they lost their old passbook, and with the transition to computerised records, 
not all banks collected in the old passbooks.
Ive seen evidence that Lloyds has searched its systems and it cant find any record of this 
account. Mrs J has also tried to locate the account via a third party website and has been 
unable to do so. Over the course of this complaint Mrs J has also provided an address 
history at Lloydss request and it has carried out further searches. But even with this 
additional information, Lloyds has shown us evidence that it still hasnt been able to find a 
record of the account on its systems.
Lloyds has searched its records for the account which is what Id expect it to do. 
Banks arent required to keep records indefinitely, so I dont think its unreasonable that it 
isnt able to confirm to Mrs J exactly what happened with an account from 1985, over 35 
years ago. And in the absence of any record suggesting the account remains open, I think 
its more likely the account was closed, and the balance withdrawn. I recognise that Lloyds 
could have asked for Mrs Js address history sooner in order to conduct these additional 
checks, but Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that this wouldnt have changed things. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I recognise my decision will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs J, I wont be asking Lloyds to pay the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman