DRN-1895261
The complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave him poor advice regarding his pension 
arrangements.
What happened
In January 1993 Mr R met with an adviser from Abbey Life (now Phoenix Life) to discuss his 
pension arrangements. His employer at the time wished to make contributions on his behalf 
and the adviser recommended a Group Personal Pension plan (GPP) and that Mr R contract 
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
Mr R already had a plan he was contributing to with another provider and in February 1993 
he stopped making contributions to this plan and it was made paid up.
Following a letter from Phoenix Life in 2002, Mr R contracted back into SERPS.
In late 2018 Mr R complained to Phoenix Life about the advice he had been given in 1993. In 
summary he complained that the advice to contract-out of SERPS had not been in his best 
interests as hed lost out on his state pension. And he said the adviser had also told him to 
stop contributions to his existing plan with the other provider. Mr R says hes since found out 
this plan had valuable guarantees that he wouldve got greater benefit from had he not 
stopped paying into the plan.
Phoenix Life responded to Mr Rs complaint. In relation to contacting-out of SERPS, Phoenix 
Life explained that Mr R had met the criteria at the time for someone who it was considered 
would benefit from contracting-out. With regards to Mr R stopping contributions with his then 
existing plan, Phoenix Life said that there was no evidence that this advice was given, or that 
the adviser was even aware of his existing pension.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and reached the conclusion that Phoenix Life 
didnt need to do any more to put things right. He didnt think it had been wrong to 
recommend that Mr R contract-out. In relation to Mr R being told to stop contributions with 
the other provider, the investigator said without corroborating evidence he couldnt say that 
Phoenix Life had done something wrong here.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said he recalled that he had been told by the 
adviser to freeze his existing plan in favour of the Phoenix Life one he was recommended. 
Mr R suspects the reason for the advice was commission based and that he didnt have 
enough money to pay into two plans at the time. He said his employer would have adjusted 
his salary if was given the correct advice to stay with the existing pension provider.
In relation to the advice to contract out of SERPS, Mr R says that he has lost out on his state 
pension and he was never told that this would be the case. Had Phoenix Life made him 
aware he could be worse off by contracting-out he would not have agreed to it.
On a related note Phoenix Life had made Mr R an offer relating to this pension plan. The 
offer was made due to one of the funds selected by Phoenix Life being adventurous in its 
risk nature, and it said it couldnt justify this selection. To put things right Phoenix Life offered 
to reconstruct the fund value as if it had always been wholly invested in the Managed Fund. I 
understand that Mr R has contacted Phoenix Life to accept this offer, so its not necessary to 
comment on this further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint relates to two separate issues, Ill discuss them in turn starting with the 
advice to contract out of SERPS.
Mr R says that this advice was unsuitable, and that the adviser for his own gain 
(commission) gave advice that they knew would result in Mr R being worse off. 
In 1988 the government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS. This was 
seen to be an attractive opportunity at the time because those individuals that decided to 
contract-out would receive payments from the Department of Social Security (DSS) that 
would be paid directly to the pension provider of their choice. The Government also offered 
incentive payments to some individuals for a number of years as it wanted a large 
percentage of the population to take up the offer to contract-out. The rebates paid by the 
government were set in such a way that it was more attractive for younger individuals to 
contract-out than older individuals who were advised to remain in SERPS. 
The idea behind this was that the amount paid into the personal pension was invested, and 
this investment would grow sufficiently, so that the future benefits would be more than the 
consumer would have received had they remained in SERPS. This was, however, 
dependent on the growth achieved and the rates which were available at retirement for 
converting the pension fund into an annuity.  
So whilst I can understand Mr Rs concern about finding out his state pension has been 
reduced, this was always going to be the case regardless of how the Phoenix Life plan 
performed. The payments that previously went towards his additional state pension were 
redirected to the Phoenix Life plan for the period that he was contracted out. Mr R is 
concerned about the reduction to his state pension but it doesnt seem that he has factored 
in the value of his contracted-out benefits originally held in the Phoenix Life plan. 
Mr R said he wasnt told his state pension could be reduced but he wouldve received 
information at the time from Phoenix Life about the plan and contracting out. Phoenix Lifes 
literature from the time explains the contracting-out process and that its not guaranteed to 
be beneficial. 
Given Mr Rs age and earnings at the time it was a reasonable assumption that he would 
likely benefit from contracting-out. So the advice to contract-out was suitable at the time. And 
I dont think its correct to say that the adviser knew that this advice would mean Mr R would 
be worse off. 
The plan that Mr R took out with Phoenix Life was set up so that his employer could make 
contributions to this plan through whats known as a Group Personal Pension. His employers 
selected and arranged for Mr Rs plan with Phoenix Life. 
Mr R says that the adviser told him to freeze the other plan in favour of the Phoenix Life 
plan. Mr R has not been able to provide any corroborating evidence of this but Mr R did stop 
his contributions with the other provider shortly after taking out the Phoenix Life plan. Ultimately as I wasnt present and we only have Mr Rs recollections of an event over 25 
years ago which arent corroborated by what was recorded at the time, its very difficult to 
draw any strong conclusions on what was said. In these situations, I need to consider whats 
most likely. 
Mr R says that he couldnt afford to pay for both plans and that the sale was commission 
driven. However, the Phoenix Life plan recommendation was for a pension to be setup to 
receive the employers contribution and SERPS, Mr R was not making personal 
contributions. So this made no material difference to Mr Rs ability to afford the other plan. 
I can think of no real incentive or motive for the adviser to tell Mr R to freeze or stop his other 
plan. The plan was setup so Mr R could receive a pension contribution from his employer. 
This wasnt a case of one or the other, both could run at the same time as the contributions 
received were from different sources. Mr R was not advised to make his own contributions 
and so the fact he had another pension with another provider was largely immaterial to the 
recommendation of this one. Due to the circumstances here, there was no reason for the 
adviser to make any recommendations about Mr Rs other plan at all. So it seems unusual 
for it to have been discussed, especially for affordability reasons. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr 
R has given us his honest recollections, this alone isnt enough for me to conclude that the 
adviser told Mr R to stop his contributions to the other plan.
So for the reasons set out above, I cannot say that Phoenix Life did something wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against Phoenix Life 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman