DRN-1716534
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated her unfairly when she asked to extend 
the term of her interest only mortgage. Barclays has accepted that it made mistakes and has 
offered Mrs F compensation. However, Mrs F doesnt think its offer is enough.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs F contacted Barclays. Her interest only mortgage was due to expire 
later that year and she wanted to get advice about her options. Mrs F also wanted to let 
Barclays know that her husband was seriously ill.
In March 2019 Mrs F spoke with Barclays again. She told Barclays that her husband was 
receiving palliative care, and that his life expectancy was limited. Mrs F said it wouldnt be 
possible for her to sell her property in the midst of their personal situation. Mrs F wanted to 
extend the term of her mortgage so she could sort things out later. Barclays told Mrs F that 
she should call back when there was a month left on the mortgage term. It said it would 
discuss at that point what it could do to help. 
Mrs F called back in August 2019 as Barclays had told her to, one month before the 
mortgage was due to expire. She was then told Barclays could and should have done more 
to help sooner. Mrs F was upset and felt that shed lost five months in which she could have 
been sorting out alternatives and reviewing her options. She wasnt happy with the way 
shed been treated and made a complaint.
Barclays issued two responses to Mrs Fs complaint. In its first response, dated September 
2019, Barclays agreed more could have been done to help Mrs F sooner and it offered 
compensation of £240. It asked Mrs F to send in medical evidence and said it wanted to her 
to complete an income and expenditure assessment before considering a term extension. 
Mrs F escalated the matter with Barclays. 
Barclays then issued a second final response on 15 October 2019, awarding a further £800 
of compensation. It still asked that Mrs F give details of her income and expenditure before it 
would agree to a term extension.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied with Barclays responses. She still felt Barclays hadnt done enough 
to help her from March to October 2019. Mrs F brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Barclays had accepted it had made an error in 
not helping earlier and he agreed. He thought the compensation offered was fair and 
reasonable to settle the matter. Mrs F disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review all 
the evidence afresh and reach a final decision on the matter. In summary, Mrs F felt our 
Investigator hadnt appreciated all the calls shed made and that he hadnt understood what 
Barclays had done wrong and the impact this had on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs F. I understand that her husband has 
now passed away and Mrs F is now in the process of selling her property. I dont doubt that 
this has been an exceptionally difficult time for Mrs F. I can also appreciate that the issues 
Mrs F experienced with her mortgage coincided with a very challenging period for Mrs F.
When Mrs F made contact with Barclays in February 2019 she wanted to take proactive 
steps to sort out what would happen with her expiring mortgage. She also shared 
information about how poorly Mr F was. Mrs F wanted advice and she asked for Barclays 
help to explore her options.
Barclays simply didnt give Mrs F the help and support it should have as her interest only 
mortgage approached expiring. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, has shared 
what it considers to be good industry practice for lenders with regards to handling expiring 
interest only mortgages. Barclays fell short of this standard. Barclays should not have sent 
Mrs F away and told her to come back in the weeks before the mortgage expired.
Barclays also didnt seem to take what was happening in Mr and Mrs Fs personal 
circumstances into account. It was focused on getting medical evidence and exploring an 
income and expenditure assessment- but it doesnt seem to have looked at the bigger 
picture and the reality of the situation Mrs F was facing. It strikes me that Mrs F was asking 
for some breathing space in which to care and support her husband, and to make major 
decisions about her future. I think that was a reasonable request for her to have made of her 
mortgage lender.
 
Barclays accepts its error, and it has offered compensation that total £1,040. It has also now 
agreed to extend the term of the interest only mortgage and honour Mrs Fs previous interest 
rate arrangement. That is good to hear, and it is what I would have expected Barclays to 
have been able to sort out sooner. But I completely accept why Mrs F doesnt feel that its 
apology and compensation goes far enough. Im persuaded that the impact of Barclays 
actions on Mrs F was considerable. Barclays treatment of Mrs F caused her suffering, 
anxiety and inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
Ive thought carefully about the compensation that has been offered, which has been 
increased by Barclays before coming to this service. Ive also thought about other awards 
made in complaints Ive come across, and the guidance available on our website about the 
levels of compensation typically awarded for trouble and upset caused by businesses.
In truth, no monetary award can compensate Mrs F for the stress and difficulties she 
experienced over the course of this complaint. And, Barclays has made an offer for the part 
it played in causing Mrs F upset by not helping her as it should have done with her 
mortgage. However, after careful consideration, I think the award made of £1,040 is fair and 
reasonable to settle the matter.  
I hope Mrs F is now able to put this dispute behind her and move on with her plans for the 
future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, to the extent that I consider that the 
compensation and further actions taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC to be fair and reasonable 
to settle the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman