DRN-3672751
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was about 
seven years old and had completed about 65,000 miles when it was supplied. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think theyd expect the 
engine to fail after the car had be driven for only a month.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when SMF were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
SMF have provided an independent engineers report to dispute the assumption the fault 
was present when the car was supplied. The engineer noted a smell of petrol in the diesel 
fuel tank. He couldnt start the car and has suggested the most likely cause of its failure is 
that it was mis fuelled. Although he also comments that its unclear who mis fuelled the car.
Mr R subsequently arranged his own inspection. SMF naturally had concerns about the 
validity of the inspection report provided as it wasnt letter headed, but our investigator has 
subsequently been in touch with the engineer who has explained he was having IT issues at 
the time and has provided another copy of the report on letter headed paper. Hes also 
detailed his extensive qualifications and I accept the investigators findings that his views are 
credible.
Mr Rs engineer said:
If vehicle had any faults these had been cleared before our inspection It is clear that the 
fuel lines had been purged before our inspectionThe fuel filter contained diesel. We found 
no petrol present in the fuel filter proceeded to take a sample of fuel from the fuel tank; this
showed signs of petrol mixed with diesel. It is my opinion that the vehicle had not been run 
on petrol as if this was the case petrol would have been present in the fuel filter, high 
pressure fuel rail and high-pressure fuel lines. We can say with certainty that there was no 
petrol present in any of the above components during our inspection From the tests 
carried out on the vehicle it is clear that engine failure occurred due to a failure of the timing 
chain. The chain has either jumped or snapped.
I find this report more persuasive; its more detailed. The engineer identified, as did the 
independent inspector, that there was fuel in the tank, but hes noted that the fuel doesnt 
appear to have entered the system and the vehicle has therefore not operated on petrol. The 
fuel filter, fuel rail and fuel lines had no traces of petrol and it seems likely they would have if 
the car had been run on it. 
Mr Rs engineer has also been able to identify the reason for the failure was the timing chain 
had jumped or snapped. It appears unlikely that has happened because of misfuelling as it 
appears clear petrol never got into the system.
The investigator wasnt able to gather evidence that the car had been serviced correctly 
before Mr R received it. There are no service records for 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 or 2021 
and I think thats a much more likely cause of the failure than mis fuelling when there is no 
evidence of the fuel having entered the cars system. I bear in mind that its for SMF to 
demonstrate the car wasnt faulty, or developing a fault, when supplied. I dont think theyve 
been able to do that.
Having considered all of the evidence I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr R as I think it was developing a fault with the timing chain.
 
Putting things right
It seems unlikely that a repair will be economically viable on a car of this age and mileage so 
I think SMF should collect the car at no cost to Mr R and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund Mr Rs deposit and they should add interest to that refund as Mr R has been deprived of that money.
Mr R has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I 
think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. 
So, SMF should refund the cost of that report on provision of the receipt from Mr R. They 
should add interest to that refund too.
Mr R also had to pay to have his car recovered so I think SMF should refund the £180 that 
cost him, with interest.
Mr R has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to have the car recovered , its 
spoilt a holiday he was planning, he wasnt provided with a courtesy car, and hes had to 
arrange an inspection and escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances SMF should pay him £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. For clarity, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask SMF to compensate Mr R for loss of earnings during his holiday. I think its fair to 
suggest Mr R could have mitigated any losses by working or cancelling his holiday.
Mr R has had no use of the car since it broke down on 11 July 2021. Hes explained that as 
the car broke down before the first finance instalment was due, he cancelled his direct debit 
and hasnt actually paid any finance instalments towards his agreement. Mr R appears to 
have had reasonable use of the car for a month before it broke down, so its fair he pays for 
that use. But thereafter it wouldnt be fair for him to pay for a car he was unable to use. SMF 
can therefore deduct £138.68, the equivalent of one monthly finance instalment, from the 
redress to compensate them for the use Mr R had from the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Allow Mr R to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car (if necessary) and at no cost to Mr R.
Refund the recovery cost of £180 and add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of Mr Rs engineering report on provision of the receipt and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Waive all but one of the finance instalments due under the agreement and recover 
the remaining instalment of £138.68 by deducting that from the redress provided 
under this decision. 
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires SMF to take off tax from this interest. SMF must give    Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr R asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman