DRN-4202318
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not process his chargeback 
request correctly.
What happened
Mr S paid £200.11 to an overseas merchant on 1 February 2022. However, as Mr S had not 
received the service hed paid for, Mr S contacted the merchant and requested that he be 
refunded the money. As he did not hear back from the merchant, Mr S then contacted 
Monzo in January 2023 to request that the money hed paid be returned to him.
Monzo submitted a chargeback request on 12 January 2023 through the debit card 
providers chargeback scheme. Whilst Monzo was waiting for the outcome of its chargeback 
claim, Monzo temporarily credited Mr Ss account with the £200.11 that he was trying to get 
back from the merchant. On 31 January 2023, the merchant contacted Mr S and said that it 
will look into whether it is able to refund him the money and said that a refund will be given 
within 8 weeks, if applicable.
On 22 March 2023, Monzo was informed by the card scheme that Mr Ss chargeback claim 
had been unsuccessful and explained this to Mr S. Monzo explained that because the 
chargeback had been unsuccessful, it will remove the £200.11 that it had previously 
temporarily refunded to Mr S, in 14 days. Monzo subsequently took £200.11 from Mr Ss 
account on 5 April 2023, resulting in Mr Ss account entering into an unarranged overdraft.
On 1 April 2023, the Merchant confirmed to Mr S that a refund was initiated on 17 February 
2023, but explained that it can take up to six months for the refund to be made. I understand 
the refund was made by the merchant to Mr S by 5 April 2023.
Mr S contacted Monzo to say that he was in financial difficulties due to Monzo taking the 
£200.11 from his account. On 28 April 2023 Monzo agreed to pay Mr S £4.21, to cover 
overdraft interest Mr S was due to be charged and agreed to freeze Mr Ss unarranged 
overdraft until 26 June 2023.
Mr S raised a complaint, and in response Monzo explained that Mr Ss chargeback had been 
raised for Mr S, but it was the case that the debit card scheme declined his claim. Monzo 
also acknowledged that although Mr S has provided further evidence since the Chargeback 
claim, only one claim can be made for a disputed payment. Monzo did acknowledge that it 
had not responded to Mr S in a timely fashion and so agreed to pay Mr S £30.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service, and one of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint. Ultimately, they concluded that Monzo had dealt with the chargeback fairly, and 
so did not think that Monzo should do anything further in relation to this matter. Mr S 
disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, overall, I dont think that Monzo needs to do more than what it 
had already agreed to do to put matters right in this case. I will explain why.
When someone makes a purchase of goods or services using a debit card, and something 
goes wrong with the purchase, theres no automatic obligation on their bank to provide a 
refund or other assistance. However, their bank may be able to help by making use of the 
dispute resolution system administered by the card scheme whose logo appears on the 
card. This way of claiming a refund is what is normally referred to as a chargeback. 
Chargebacks are subject to complex rules which are set by the card scheme. The rules 
cover various things including the types of dispute which can be dealt with via a chargeback, 
the evidence required, and the time limits to submit information.
While a consumer cannot insist that their bank attempt a chargeback, I would expect it to 
consider, when approached by a consumer looking for help with a debit card transaction for 
goods or services, whether it is able to help by attempting a chargeback. And I would expect 
it to proceed with a chargeback where to do so would be compliant with the card scheme 
rules and have a reasonable chance of succeeding. 
I would also expect the bank to conduct  the chargeback process in a competent way, 
without making mistakes and subjecting any defence from the other side to the chargeback 
to an appropriate degree of scrutiny. I would not expect the bank to accept, for example, a 
defence which did not properly address the dispute in the way the card schemes rules 
require, or which was obviously wrong.
In this case, I can see that Monzo submitted a chargeback claim on 12 January 2023, 
because Mr S had not received what hed paid for. This was despite him making the 
payment in February 2022. 
When Monzo submitted the chargeback claim to the card scheme, I understand that it did so 
on the basis that Mr S had not received what hed paid for  which looks to have been a 
reasonable basis in which to base the claim on. However, Monzo received a response from 
the card scheme to say that the claim had been declined  and was provided evidence to 
indicate that the payment was not eligible for a refund.
Mr S responded to Monzo and said that this was incorrect, and provided evidence to show 
that a refund was not warranted only if the merchant had started to process the application 
for the service that hed paid for. Mr S explained that in his case, the merchant had still not 
processed his application (despite it being submitted nearly a year before) and so he was 
entitled to a refund according to the Merchants own terms.
I can see that, between when the chargeback claim was submitted and when Monzo 
confirmed it had been unsuccessful, Mr S had heard back from the merchant who said that it 
would be looking into whether a refund was warranted. In the circumstances, given the 
evidence Mr S had provided, I think Monzo couldve perhaps done more to challenge the 
defended Chargeback.
However, I cant see that Mr S has lost out by this. I say this because firstly, Monzo did give 
Mr S a temporary refund of £200.11 on 13 January 2023, pending the outcome of the 
chargeback. Furthermore, I can see that by the time Monzo had reversed the refund on 5 
April 2023 - causing his account to enter an unarranged overdraft of £200.11 - Mr S told us 
that hed already been refunded £200.11 directly by the merchant. As Mr S said that hed 
already been refunded directly from the merchant, it appears that the refund was paid into a 
different account than the one in question in this complaint.
In an email sent to our service on 5 April 2023, Mr S says that the unarranged overdraft on 
his account will cause him financial difficulty because his salary was due to be paid into his 
account on 6 April 2023. However, Mr S had already been refunded the money from the 
merchant. And the unarranged overdraft was for the same amount as the amount Mr S had 
been refunded. So Mr S couldve resolved matters himself by paying the money hed been refunded from the merchant into his Monzo account  which wouldve cleared the £200.11 
unarranged overdraft. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Monzo to have 
simply written off the overdrawn balance that was on his account. As that wouldve resulted 
in Mr S being refunded twice for the disputed payment, once by Monzo and once by the 
merchant.
Furthermore, I can see that Monzo credited £4.21 into Mr Ss account on 28 April 2023, to 
cover the unarranged overdraft interest that was charged on 1 May 2023 and agreed to 
freeze the overdraft interest until 26 June 2023. In the circumstances, I think that Monzo took 
reasonable steps to give Mr S plenty of time in which to pay the refunded amounts back into 
his account to rectify the unarranged overdraft.
As such, taking everything into account, although I think that Monzo couldve perhaps done 
more to challenge the defended chargeback claim, I dont think that Mr S lost out financially 
because of this. 
Mr S says he received the disputed amounts as a refund directly from the merchant before 
Monzo had reversed the temporary refund on his account. And I think the additional actions 
taken by Monzo i.e. agreeing to pay Mr S £30 for not getting back to him as quickly as it 
shouldve; to waive the overdraft interest that was charged on 1 May 2023; and to freeze the 
charging of overdraft interest on the account until 26 June 2023, was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Monzo should pay Mr S £30, if it has not done so already, in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd has already made an offer to pay Mr S £30 to settle the complaint. Because 
of the reasons given above, I think this offer is fair in the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should pay £30 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman