DRN-3728798
The complaint
Miss N, via a representative, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
didnt do enough to protect her when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided in full. Having done so, while Im sorry that 
Miss N has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that 
Miss N authorised the payments from her NatWest account, albeit not realising she was 
being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017  is that shes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant of codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect 
NatWest to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some circumstances, 
when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks before processing a 
payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold 
NatWest liable. 
Ive thought about the additional checks NatWest carried out and whether these were 
sufficient. NatWest asked Miss N to go into branch with her ID as well as proof that the 
payments were going to a cryptocurrency wallet that was in her own name. Miss N did this. 
It also appears from Miss Ns testimony that NatWest contacted her regarding two larger 
payments  of £13,000 and £10,000 (though I note the £13,000 payment was refunded to 
her account shortly afterwards). So its clear there was some intervention, though I question 
whether NatWest went far enough with this intervention, or whether it intervened as early as 
it should have.
However, even if I proceed on the basis that NatWests intervention wasnt sufficient, Ive 
thought carefully about whether an appropriate intervention would have made a difference 
here. And I dont think it would have. 
I say this because, within Miss Ns testimony, she admits having told NatWest that she was 
acting alone, which she was advised to do by the scammer. In the communication between 
Miss N and the scammer, I can see that Miss N checked whether she should say she was 
purchasing cryptocurrency. And Miss N also made reference to how the bank was 
interrogating her about the money and asking where it was coming from, which she said was 
annoying and made her feel like a criminal. 
It seems clear to me from the evidence provided that Miss N was under the spell of the 
scammer with whom shed built a personal relationship with. So, had NatWest asked further 
questions, Im persuaded that Miss N would have said what was needed, regardless of 
whether it was true or not, to ensure that payments went through as she trusted the 
scammer.
Furthermore, Miss N had withdrawn small sums of money from her investments, which had 
taken place quickly, which persuaded her that the scammer and the investment were 
genuine. She said I had no doubt as to the companys legitimacy. While I recognise this is 
a relatively common tactic adopted by scammers, in combination with the relationship shed 
built with the scammer, Im satisfied Miss N believed this to be a good investment and one 
which she didnt have doubts about. 
I acknowledge that Miss Ns total spend  of around £25,000  over a period of a few days is 
high. But Im not persuaded that an appropriate intervention would have made a difference 
for the reasons given above. And I dont think NatWest ought to have realised that Miss N 
was taking instructions from someone else in relation to these investments. So, I dont think 
it was the action (or inaction) of NatWest that led to a fraudulent loss. 
In terms of recovery, the payments were made directly to a cryptocurrency wallet in Miss Ns 
name. So if the money remained in this account, Miss N would have needed to contact this 
merchant to try to recover the funds. And if the money had been sent on to another wallet, 
NatWest wouldnt have been able to recover this. So, I dont think NatWest could reasonably 
have tried to recover the funds. 
Im sorry about the personal circumstances affecting Miss N at the time of the scam, and the 
impact this scam had on her. But I dont think it would be fair to hold NatWest responsible for 
Miss Ns losses. So I wont be asking it to reimburse her or take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman