DRN-2430387
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
What happened
Ms B opened a store card account in a shop in 1995. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
If Ms B had made a successful claim on the policy for injury, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on her card each month. The policy 
also included some purchase protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt initially recommend that the complaint should be upheld. But after the 
adjudicator sent out her view of the complaint, Ms B told us that she had a guaranteed 
pension income of £300 per month. She explained that she hadnt previously mentioned this 
due to the length of time since the sale.
The adjudicator then sent out a revised view, upholding the complaint. She explained, in 
summary, that she didnt think AXA had made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to 
Ms B. And given Ms Bs other means of making payments, she didnt think she needed the 
policy enough to make its benefits worth what it cost her.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms B 
and to AXA on 1 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
Ms Bs told us the PPI just came with the account. Id seen a copy of Ms Bs signed 
application for the store card. It includes a section on PPI, headed PAYMENT 
PROTECTION. Theres a brief description of the purpose of the cover, and there are 
equally prominent options to take or decline the PPI. Theres a tick in the box to indicate 
that Ms B wished to take the cover. 
I thought the way the PPI was referred to on the form made it clear that it was optional. 
And I thought that Ms B decided to take the cover, knowing that she had a choice  
although I could understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years later.
It wasnt in dispute that AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B, or provide her with any 
advice about it. This meant it didnt need to check if the PPI was suitable for her. But it 
did have a responsibility to give Ms B enough information to enable her to decide for 
herself whether she wanted to take the cover, knowing what other means shed have had 
of making her monthly store card repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her 
job.
Ms Bs told us she was working for the NHS at the time, and would have been entitled to 
six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if shed been off sick.
But based on what Ms Bs told us, shed only been in her job for around nine months 
when she took out the PPI. And based on our experience of NHS sick pay entitlements, 
I wouldnt have expected her to be entitled to the level of sick pay shes mentioned until 
shed been in the job for a few years. In her first year of employment, I thought it was 
more likely that shed have been entitled to one months full pay, followed by, at the most, 
two months half pay if shed been off sick.
I asked Ms B if she had any evidence of her sick pay when she took out the PPI. And if 
she didnt have evidence, I asked her whether there was any reason why shed have 
been entitled to such significant sick pay during her first year in the job. Ms B replied that 
the sick pay shed told us about (six months full pay, followed by six months half pay) 
was standard sick pay for the whole time she worked for the NHS. Understandably, given 
the time thats passed, she no longer has any paperwork to support this.
I didnt doubt that Ms Bs given us her honest recollection. But I remained of the view that 
standard sick pay for someone in their first year of Ms Bs job would have been 
significantly less than Ms B now remembers. And I hadnt seen anything to explain why 
Ms B would have been entitled to significantly different sick pay from people in similar 
roles.
Taking everything into account, I thought it was likely that when she took out the PPI 
Ms B would only have been entitled to full sick pay for a month, followed by half pay for 
no more than two months. Ms Bs told us she had no significant savings that were 
accessible. And although shes told us shed have had a guaranteed pension income of 
£300 a month, I thought she could have struggled to make her monthly store card 
repayments quite quickly if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
If Ms B had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her 
store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or 
of her claim had been earliest. So I thought the policy could have been useful for Ms B.
I acknowledged that it was possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the cost of the 
PPI could have been clearer. But I was satisfied that it would have been apparent from 
the application form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Id seen 
nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Ms B. And as she was paying for 
it monthly, she could have cancelled it any time with no further cost if her situation 
changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Based on what Ms Bs told us about her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover  for example, provisions about unusual working arrangements, or existing 
medical conditions.Taking everything into account, I wasnt convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Ms B off taking it out. So based on what Id seen so far, I didnt think 
shed lost out as a result of anything that AXA may have done wrong. And I couldnt fairly 
uphold the complaint.
Further submissions
AXAs told us it has nothing further to add. Ms B hasnt commented on my provisional 
decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaint on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman