DRN-2114773
The complaint
Mr F complains about the valuation Ageas Insurance Limited placed on his car after a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ageas declared Mr Fs car to be a total loss following an accident. It offered him £2,200, less 
the policy excess, as its pre-accident value. It later increased this valuation to £2,466.50. But 
Mr F remained unhappy. He said similar cars were advertised for higher prices and he 
provided adverts for these. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
valuation had been correctly made according to our approach. He thought the valuations in 
the trade guides we used were more reliable than the adverts as these were for asking 
prices. 
Mr F replied that he thought Ageas offer was unfair as it wouldnt cover the cost of replacing 
his car. He queried whether the valuation had taken into account the cars options and 
maintenance. He thought Ageas offer should be at the top of the range provided by the 
trade guides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr F wants a fair settlement from Ageas. I can see that he thought his 
car was worth nearer £4,000. The investigator has explained this services approach to car 
valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Ageas final valuation for Mr Fs car was fair and reasonable. So 
Ive checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that the policy provides for the pre-
accident market value in the case of total loss. It doesnt provide for a like for like 
replacement. 
I can see that the investigator obtained valuations for Mr Fs car from three of the trade 
guides we use. He took into account the cars make, model, age, mileage, condition and 
optional extras. The latter didnt increase the valuation. Mr F provided evidence of how well 
hed maintained his car. But we consider maintenance is needed in order to keep a car 
roadworthy. So we dont think it would increase a cars value. And so I think the investigator 
carried out the valuations correctly according to our approach.
The valuations the investigator found ranged between £2,033 and £2,770. Our approach is 
that a fair and reasonable settlement by an insurer would be within this range. Ageas 
valuation of £2,466.50 fell between these figures. So I think Ageas settlement offer is fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with our approach. I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr F provided examples of cars similar to his advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman