DRN-3352485
The complaint
G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect it from losing money to 
an email interception scam.
What happened
On 8 August 2017 G made a payment of £50,000 from its Barclays account to pay an 
invoice from a company (B) it had previously dealt with. Unbeknownst to G, the email from 
B had been intercepted by a scammer, and sent onto G, looking like it had come from B, 
only after the scammer had, on the invoice, switched out the legitimate banks details for 
payment to B with banks details for payment to the scammer. As such, G was tricked into 
sending the £50,000 payment to the scammer and not B.
G reported the scam to Barclays the next day. Barclays managed to help recover £986.79 of 
the £50,000, but it didnt otherwise reimburse G with the money lost to the scam. Remaining
unhappy, G referred its complaint about Barclays to this service. As our investigator couldnt
resolve matters informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold the complaint, and for essentially the same 
reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.
At the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer authorised it 
to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. There is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction.
Now in this case, the payment instruction did flag on Barclays' systems. And as a result, 
Barclays sent G a text message saying, Did you make the following Barclays Online 
Payment 08/08/2017 £50000 [B]? Please reply Y if the payment is yours or N if it is fraud. 
Please respond within 60 minutes. G responded to the text with Y. Barclays then sent G 
a further text message saying, Thank you for using Barclays Online Banking. Your 
payment for £50000 to [B] on 08/08/2017 has been made successfully.
Authorised push payment (APP) scams like this one  by their very definition  are instructed 
by the customer. So I dont think Barclays text message could have uncovered this scam. 
But Gs answer to the text did at least provide Barclays with confirmation that G was aware 
of this payment instruction made on its account, and that G had indeed authorised it.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I am satisfied that this was sufficient  I dont 
think I can reasonably say that Barclays reasonably ought to have been obliged to have 
done more than this, or that it should be held responsible for the loss because it didnt. This 
is because, having reviewed the prior operation of Gs Barclays account (and for essentially 
the same reasons as explained by our investigator), I dont think I can fairly say the £50,000 
payment ought reasonably to have appeared sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to 
Barclays, such that it should have spoken to G (rather than just sending a text message to 
confirm authorisation), to check everything was in order, before processing the payment. 
The £50,000 payment was for a large amount. But Gs account with Barclays was a 
business account with a reasonable expectation that larger transactions would be made. 
And bearing in mind that G had previously made payments for £50,000  two in April 2017, 
one in May 2017 and another in June 2017, which also, like the scam payment, were 
preceded by large payments into the account  I dont think what Barclays did was 
unreasonable, nor that I can reasonably say it should have been obliged to have done more 
or be held accountable for the loss because it didnt.
Gs representative argues that Gs consent was to the payment going to B, including in its
response to Barclays text message. But as the investigator explained in her assessment, 
under the rules at the time the payment was sent using the unique identifiers (in this case 
the sort code and account number), as per The Payment Services Regulations (set out in 
the investigators assessment, which I wont repeat here) and the account terms and 
conditions. So I consider Gs consent to the payment made was clear, specific and 
informed at the time it authorised the payment, and that Barclays processed the payment 
correctly. Confirmation of Payee systems were not yet in place at the time (nor were they 
expected to be), so Confirmation of Payee simply wasnt something Barclays would 
reasonably have been able to do at the time of this payment, especially given the beneficiary 
account was held with a different bank.
Gs representative has referred to paragraph 40 of the House of Commons Treasury
Committees Economic Crime: Consumer View, Third Report of Session 2019, which 
states: The fact that banks were not previously confirming payees is a serious failure to 
protect customers from harm. Asking for such information but not using it would have 
created a false sense of security among some customers when sending payments. It might 
have been better for banks to not ask for this information at all if they were not going to use it 
for fraud prevention. And I think this is, of course, relevant to why Confirmation of Payee 
was introduced. I appreciate that Gs representative has also pointed out that Barclays not 
only asked for the payee name in the payment instruction on 8 August 2017, but it also 
repeated the payee name in the text messages it sent to G, which Gs representative says 
would have created an even greater sense of security for G around the payee name. 
However, I have already explained above why I am satisfied Gs consent to the payment on 
8 August 2017 was clear, specific and informed, and that under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the account terms and conditions, the payment was correctly sent using the 
account number and sort code. And the reasons for why Confirmation of Payee was later 
introduced dont alter what regulatory requirements and best practice was at the time of the 
payment in August 2017. So this also doesnt persuade me that I can reasonably say 
Barclays did anything wrong here, or that it should be held responsible for the loss.
G reported the scam to Barclays on 9 August 2017 at 10.02am. I have seen information that
shows Barclays contacted the receiving bank, Metro, this same day to try to facilitate 
recovery of the £50,000. I havent seen any information showing the exact time Barclays 
contacted Metro, but I note that during its call with G on 9 August 2017 (when G reported the 
scam to Barclays) Barclays told G that it would contact Metro immediately (something it 
emphasised). I havent seen evidence that shows Barclays didnt do so. I must also consider 
that even after Barclays contacted Metro, action was required by Metro to secure any 
remaining money. And the information I have seen from Metro satisfies me that it is most 
likely that, no matter how quickly Barclays did or did not contact Metro on 9 August 2017 
after its call with G, not more than £986.79 would have been recoverable. I am therefore not persuaded I can say Barclays didnt act fairly and reasonably in its attempts to recover the 
money, or that this has made a difference to the amount it ultimately was able to recover.
This means that I have decided that it would be neither fair nor reasonable to uphold this 
complaint about Barclays. I accept G was the victim of a scam, and Im sorry G lost such a 
significant amount of money. But this doesnt automatically entitle G to a refund from 
Barclays  it would only be fair for me to tell Barclays to reimburse G if I thought it either 
caused the loss or hindered recovery. And as I dont think that it did, I cant fairly tell 
Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman