DRN-3341273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Aviva Insurance Limited s (Aviva) claim value offered to them, 
following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D lost a piece of jewellery. A claim was made to Aviva who accepted the claim and 
instructed a specialist to create a replacement. But this process, took over eight weeks with 
little progress. Mr and Mrs D complained to Aviva about the delays. 
Aviva then offered Mr and Mrs D to either wait for the replacement to be made or to take a 
cash settlement. The delays continued and Mr and Mrs D contacted their own specialist, 
who said that the jewellery could be made in a shorter period but quoted a cost of £2,000 for 
the replacement. 
Aviva said that the cash settlement it could pay was £1,400 less the policy excess. Mr and 
Mrs D complained to Aviva as they had paid for the jewellery to be replaced and wanted the 
full cost of £2,000, to be met. Aviva said that the cash settlement was the amount it wouldve 
cost to replace the jewellery, given the discounts it could get. But it recognised that Mr and 
Mrs D experienced distress and inconvenience due to the delays and offered £250 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this resolution and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that he couldnt see that Aviva had been unfair with its offer, which was in line with the policy 
terms. 
He concluded that the £250 compensation offered was fair as it recognised the instances of 
delay that had occurred during the claims process. Consequently, he didnt recommend that 
Aviva do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr and Mrs D did not. They said that there had been delays and 
because of the delays, they shouldve been entitled to have the jewellery made elsewhere, 
with Aviva meeting the full cost of replacing the jewellery. So, they asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs D, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs D had a home insurance policy that provided cover for items that had become 
lost. Mrs D lost her item of jewellery and a claim was made and accepted by Aviva. The 
main issues of this complaint are the delays that Mr and Mrs D experienced and whether 
given those delays, they were entitled to have the jewellery made elsewhere. And whether 
Aviva should meet the cost of the replacement jewellery in full, which was more than the 
amount that it wouldve cost Aviva to replace. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what Avivas obligations under the 
policy were. I also asked Aviva whether Mr and Mrs D had specified the jewellery under the 
policy. 
Aviva provided the policy schedule and from that I could see that the jewellery wasnt 
specified and had a limit of £2,000 in the event of a replacement being required. 
Under the terms of the policy it said: If we are able to repair or replace your property but 
agree to settle using cash or a voucher we will only pay you what it would have cost us to 
repair or replace it. The policy further provides under the section what we will pay:
Well pay up to the sum(s) insured and cover limits for each incident (unless we tell you
otherwise). You can find the sum(s) insured and limits on your schedule. We wont reduce 
the sum(s) insured by the amount paid under any claim. However, if you claim for loss/theft 
of a specified item and you dont replace the item you should arrange for it to be removed 
from your policy, so you dont pay for cover you dont need.
As Mr and Mrs D didnt specify the jewellery under the policy, I asked Aviva what this would 
mean in terms of the maximum it could pay under the policy. It explained that it was bound 
to pay what it would cost it to remake. It further explained that as a business, it obtained 
large discounts and although the voucher offered was for £2,000 (which was the maximum 
permitted as the jewellery hadnt been specified), which could be spent in specific shops, the 
case settlement would equate to £1,400 less any excess. As this cost was the cost it would 
be charged to remake the item. So, it offered the maximum amount possible that it would 
pay for the item. 
Based on what I have seen, I cant say that Aviva acted unfairly and not in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. I say this because insurers have business relationships with 
retailers that due to the amount of business, they do with them, they can access large 
discounts, which is what Aviva confirmed it did here. 
I have next considered the delay and I understand how frustrating and inconvenient this 
would have been. Aviva agrees that the claim took longer than it wouldve liked. It also 
agreed that Mr and Mrs D were given erroneous information at the start of the claim and 
apologised for this. In recognition of its failings, it offered compensation of £250, for the 
inconvenience caused. And I think this offer is fair and Ill explain why. 
Aviva had to instruct its agent to assist with the claim. Those specialist jewellers drew 
designs and provided timescales of how long it would take to re-produce the jewellery. I can 
see that timescales were given, but not adhered to by the specialist jewellers. Aviva 
explained that the delays were caused in part due to national lockdowns at the time, but also 
because incorrect stones had been sourced. 
Aviva accepted that the claim shouldve been finalised sooner. But I should point out that 
many of the delays were caused by the specialist jeweller and I cant be satisfied that Aviva 
wouldve been able to reasonably foresee that these delays were going to happen. I also 
think that the £250 compensation offered, in the circumstances of this complaint, is fair in 
recognition of this. I understand from Aviva, that the settlement offer and the £250 compensation is still 
available to Mr and Mrs D. If they now wish to accept either offer, and they havent received 
the funds, then I suggest they contact Aviva to arrange payment. 
For the reasons I have explained, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint, as I think it acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman