DRN-3548679
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled an escape of water claim she 
made on her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
After an escape of water, Mrs L called to make a claim to esure under her buildings and 
contents insurance policy. esure duly accepted the claim and arranged for repairs to be 
carried out.
Mrs Ls complaint relates to those repairs. She said she was originally told the repair process 
would take a few weeks, but it took months. She said esure made a number of errors 
including needing to do redo the bathroom on three occasions and causing a second leak, 
which in turn caused more damage. Mrs L said shes registered disabled and she had to be 
in temporary accommodation for far longer than acceptable. She said she had to chase 
esure on numerous occasions and the whole experience caused her distress and affected 
her health.
esure acknowledged it hadnt provided Mrs L with the service she had every right to expect 
and agreed it had let her down. It offered Mrs L £500 compensation.
Mrs L didnt think this was enough, so, she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators recommended her complaint be upheld. She thought esure needed to pay 
more compensation and recommended it pay Mrs L a further £500.
Esure didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
What has happened during this claim isnt in dispute. Both esure and Mrs L are well aware of 
everything thats happened. The dispute centres around the amount compensation 
warranted for what happened during that claim.
And while £500 isnt an insignificant amount of money at all, I dont think it fairly represents 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs L suffered. Being in temporary accommodation for 
longer than expected, having further damage caused and having repairs needing to be 
completed, only to be substandard and need doing again, on more than one occasion would 
have been very distressing. Mrs L had to chase on numerous occasions too, and being 
registered disabled, the longer Mrs L spent out of her home and in temporary 
accommodation the more inconvenient it would have been for her.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that £500 compensation isnt enough in the circumstances of 
this case. A fairer offer would be to pay Mrs L a further £500, taking the total compensation 
to £1,000
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited 
to:
Pay Mrs L a further £500, taking the total compensation paid to £1,000
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman