DRN-2854361
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Wilson Tarquin Limited are chasing her for a success fee, in relation 
to a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) that it worked on her behalf on.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs P agreed for Wilson Tarquin to act on her behalf, in relation to potential mis-sold 
PPI claims. Mrs P completed letters of authority (LOA) for each lender she thought she might 
have been sold PPI by, and sent these back to Wilson Tarquin.
Wilson Tarquin then wrote to each lender, to find out whether Mrs P had taken out any PPI 
through them. This complaint is in respect of Wilson Tarquins handling of one such claim  
with a bank Ill call bank A.
After receiving Wilson Tarquins initial request for information, bank A wrote back to it, and 
said that the signature on Mrs Ps LOA didnt pass its verification checks. So, it said it 
couldnt proceed with the matter, without another LOA. Wilson Tarquin then contacted Mrs P 
and asked her to provide the document again  which she did.
 
On receiving the new LOA Wilson Tarquin sent this to bank A. And the bank responded, 
explaining that Mrs P had PPI on a credit card she held with it, but not with any loans she 
had taken out. So, Wilson Tarquin raised a complaint with bank A about the PPI on the credit 
card, noting it considered this was mis-sold to Mrs P.
Bank A looked into the matter, and it did agree that PPI had been mis-sold to Mrs P in that 
instance. And, its my understanding it wrote directly to Mrs P to let her know this, as well as 
to tell her how much the refund for the mis-sold PPI would be. 
As the information had apparently been sent directly to Mrs P, Wilson Tarquin asked her to 
send this letter on to it, so it could review the response. There were some difficulties with 
doing this  Mrs P initially hadnt received the letter and had to ask bank A to resend it. And 
then, when she did send a copy of the letter on to Wilson Tarquin, it didnt successfully 
receive it. So, Wilson Tarquin sent Mrs P a cancellation invoice, for £240, assuming Mrs P 
didnt want to use its services any longer.
Mrs P contacted Wilson Tarquin and noted that she had sent the paperwork to it and 
explained that it was out of her control that this hadnt been received. Wilson Tarquin did 
later receive the letter from bank A that it was awaiting. What isnt clear, is whether Wilson 
Tarquin then invoiced Mrs P for the success fee it was due, for acting on her behalf in 
relation to the claim. 
Mrs P has said she received no further communication from Wilson Tarquin until 2017 or 
2018 when she was sent an invoice. Mrs P was unhappy with this and said that she was 
sure she had paid the invoice for the success fee back in 2015 or 2016. And she explained 
that Wilson Tarquin agreed to write off the amount due to it  because it couldnt be sure 
whether it had received payment or not. But, sometime later, Mrs P again received chasers 
asking her to pay the money.
Unhappy about this, Mrs P raised her concerns with Wilson Tarquin. It had told this service 
that the success fee for the PPI claim is due to it. It had made a mistake in perhaps not 
giving Mrs P the invoice in 2016, but that this had been picked up in an internal audit, and at 
that point it had asked for payment. In addition to this, it also said it couldnt find any 
agreement to write off the outstanding amount for Mrs P. 
Because Mrs P was unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ps agreement with Wilson Tarquin meant a fee was due to it for 
the successful claim. And, she hadnt seen any evidence to show the payment had been 
made. So, it was fair for Wilson Tarquin to ask for this.
Mrs P disagreed. And so, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
 
Ive reviewed the LOAs Mrs P returned to Wilson Tarquin, as well as the terms and 
conditions that were agreed to when Wilson Tarquin were appointed to act on Mrs Ps 
behalf. On doing so I can see that the terms did explain in the event of a successful PPI 
claim being made, Wilson Tarquin would be due to the fee of 40% of the compensation 
awarded, plus VAT. Given that this was agreed to, if Wilson Tarquin did act on Mrs Ps 
behalf and succeeded in securing a refund for her, Mrs P would need to pay the 40% plus 
VAT. 
Looking at copies of letters, as well as Wilson Tarquins file notes, Im aware that it did 
contact bank A, find there was PPI on the credit card, and make a complaint on Mrs Ps 
behalf. And no one disputes this was a successful claim  with what the notes and a call 
recording highlights to be a payment of £130.02. 
Given there was a successful claim, pursued by Wilson Tarquin, the fee would be due. This 
fee would be £62.41. Because the fee was due, Ive considered whether there is sufficient 
evidence to show Mrs P paid the fee. And I dont think there is.
I say this because I havent seen any evidence of the £62.41 being paid. Mrs P was asked 
by our investigator to provide any evidence of the payment  such as by providing a copy of 
the bank statement showing the payment leaving Mrs Ps account. And, whilst I appreciate it 
has been some years since the claim occurred, Mrs P hasnt provided anything to show the 
payment was sent. Ive also looked at Wilson Tarquins claim notes  and cant see that it 
issued any invoice to Mrs P, for her to pay at the point the claim succeeded in 2016.
I agree with our investigator that Wilson Tarquin should have issued the invoice in 2016. But 
Im satisfied that this mistake doesnt mean the payment under the agreement isnt due. 
Mrs P has said that she discussed the matter with Wilson Tarquin when she received chaser 
letters for the funds. Due to this, Ive listened to call recordings between Wilson Tarquin and 
Mrs P. And having done so, I havent been able to locate any agreement that the fee was not 
due. And given the terms and conditions of the agreement between Mrs P and Wilson Tarquin, the work it did, and the successful refund Mrs P received, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude the amount was payable, and I think it was fair for Wilson Tarquin to 
pursue this.
 
There are some notes in the information Wilson Tarquin holds  which refers to a fee being 
written off. But Tarquin Wilson has said this was because the matter was sent to a debt 
collection agency, and therefore it wouldnt chase the amount owed (the debt collection 
agency would). I can see the account being sent to a collection agency in 2017, and an 
invoice being generated on a yearly basis for this. And, I understand from Mrs Ps testimony 
that she did start to receive letters from this debt collection agency. So, Im persuaded by 
this explanation. In light of this, and the absence of any firm information to show that Wilson 
Tarquin told Mrs P the fee didnt need to be paid, Im satisfied it has since acted fairly in 
saying the amount is still owed.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Wilson Tarquin Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman