DRN-3628057
The complaint
Mr C complains about American Express Services Europe Limited trading as American 
Express (AMEX) charging him a fee for his credit card. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C previously received his card fee free as part of a promotion, as he had a 
qualifying second card that meant his fee was waived. Mr C no longer has the other 
card and hasnt done for some time. 
Mr C has since had his fee waived as a gesture of goodwill by AMEX.
AMEX has reviewed its policy for waiving fees and decided it no longer offers the 
card Mr C has fee free in his circumstances. Essentially the offer of a reduction as a 
gesture of goodwill has been stopped. AMEX said it decided on this to bring Mr Cs 
charging structure in line with other customers with the same card  treating all 
customers fairly.  
Although Mr C has a letter from 2008 saying AMEX wont charge a fee in the future, 
Im satisfied AMEX can change its view on this. AMEX has been fair when its given 
Mr C notice this would happen. Its also clear from the letter that any reduced or 
waived fees were done as a gesture of goodwill, rather than a change in the 
contractual terms of the card. 
AMEX sent Mr C a notice of variation that advised him a fee would be charged from 
the next anniversary of his card. It also gave Mr C options to downgrade his card to 
one without a fee. This gave Mr C around five months to decide on keeping the card. 
Im satisfied this is a fair amount of time. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I dont find AMEX have acted unfairly or against its 
terms and conditions when it decided to start to charge Mr C a fee for his card. Mr Cs card 
is one that carries a fee and AMEXs decision to start charging Mr C is one its entitled to 
make. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Cs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman