DRN-2170960
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has been unable to 
amend her address on part of its records.
What happened
Ms A says she asked Barclaycard to amend her address as she didnt live in a flat but a 
house. She says Barclaycard amended the address but not on its online banking section. Ms 
A says she previously lived in a flat and had a traumatic experience there, and Barclaycards 
failure to amend all of its records brings back distressing memories. She also says its 
actions are illegal and would like compensation for the emotional distress she has been 
caused and for the problem to be fixed.
Barclaycard has apologised for what has happened but says it cant change the address 
details. It says it has amended the address on its main records and so any correspondence 
and account statements have no reference to a flat. But it says its systems at present will not 
allow it to amend the address on an online screen headed your details. Barclaycard says 
there is no need to go into that section on a regular basis and its not an area that is visible 
unless the page is logged into.
Ms A brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had explained what the problem was and that it couldnt offer a solution 
at present. The investigator didnt think we could fairly tell Barclaycard how it runs its 
business or order it to do something it cant do.
Ms A doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycards actions are illegal and upsetting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate that Ms A will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the 
upset a reference to a flat has.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard has tried to help Ms A but has fairly explained that its systems 
dont allow it to remove reference to a flat on the your details section of its online banking 
page. I appreciate Ms As frustration in those circumstances that a business cant display 
accurate information about a customers address. But we are not Barclaycards regulator and 
its not our role to tell a business how it runs that business and we cant fairly order 
Barclaycard to change something it clearly cant change at present.
Im also satisfied that Barclaycard has amended Ms As address on the main part of its 
records. And that statements and important correspondence do not have reference to flat. I 
also think Barclaycard has fairly explained to Ms A that the screen that does contain 
reference to a flat is not a screen that she needs to see or is visible to her unless she logs 
into that particular page. So, I dont think the impact is likely to be significant by that 
information being recorded on a page that need not to be seen on a regular basis or at all as 
I think Ms A could make alternative arrangements to amend any information on that page 
such as calling Barclaycard.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard has fairly explained the position to Ms A and why it cant 
help her any further. I appreciate Ms A says Barclaycards actions are illegal but that would 
be for a court to consider and not us. In those circumstances I cant fairly order Barclaycard 
pay Ms A the compensation she would like or order it to change the way it records customer 
information for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman