DRN-1692187
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Post 
Office Money) led him to believe he could break a twelve-month fixed loyalty bond  but 
then rejected his request. 
What happened
Mr B had a Post Office Money 12-month fixed term loyalty bond.
On 11 October 2019, after hed held the bond for about six months, having renewed it 
several times, Mr B called Post Office Money about breaking the bond. Mr B wanted to 
purchase a property - and needed the funds held in the bond for a deposit.
After a couple of days Mr B then wrote to Post Office Money to formalise his request.  Mr B 
then made an offer on a property and made an 80-mile round trip to verify his identity with 
the estate agent. He also visited a solicitor to pay for searches to be carried out. 
On 17 October, Mr B received a letter from Post Office Money. As Mr Bs reasons for 
breaking the bond hadnt met the requirements for exceptional circumstances - Mr B was 
told he wasnt able to break the bond to release the funds. 
Mr B complained. As Mr Bs bond wasnt due to expire for another six months - he wasnt 
able to proceed with the purchase of the property. 
Mr B said hed given the reason for breaking the bond during the call. And while he 
understood the needed to be made in writing - he thought he should have been told his 
request was likely to be declined during the call. 
In Post Office Moneys response, they disputed that anyone had told Mr B that he could 
break the bond. They said Mr B had been advised to make a written request - giving reasons 
for the request. Post Office Money would then consider Mr Bs request and write to him with 
their decision. 
Mr B didnt agree with Post Office Money and brought his complaint to our service. 
Mr B went on to say it had taken Post Office Money six weeks to respond to his complaint, 
and that he hadnt received copies of the calls hed requested. He said hed also waited for 
someone to call him back - but it didnt happen. Mr B asked to be compensated for the 
wasted time and expenses he incurred.
Our investigators view was that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. The investigator didnt 
agree that Mr B had been led to believe he could break the bond. The investigator noted 
Post Office Money had sent copies of the calls Mr B had requested - via secure email. 
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint was given to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware Mr B has raised several points within his complaint, and while I want to reassure 
Mr B that Ive considered everything hes said, Ive focused my decision on the key aspects 
of the complaint.  
Mr B thinks because he mentioned buying a house in the call, he shouldve been told his 
request didnt meet the requirements for exceptional circumstances to allow him to break the 
bond.
As I understand it, it wouldnt be for the adviser to decide whether the bond could be broken. 
Nor would it be for the adviser to offer advice as to whether they thought Mr B would be able 
to break the bond. Each case would be considered on its own merits - once a request was 
received in writing. So, I dont agree with Mr B  the advisers responsibility here was to 
explain to Mr B the process for requesting breakage, and Im satisfied thats what the adviser 
did. 
Ive listened to Mr Bs call to Post Office Money, and I dont agree the agent said anything to 
imply that Mr B would be able to break the bond. 
Mr B said he was going to be in the market to buy a house - sooner rather than later  and 
asked what would happen if he were to close the bond early. Mr B went on to say the money 
would be used as a deposit for a house.
The adviser explained that Post Office Money did occasionally accept requests to break a 
bond early - in exceptional circumstances. But the adviser said Mr B needed to put the 
request in writing  explaining the reasons he wanted to break the bond. The agent added 
Post Office Money would then check to see if it could be done. The adviser then went on to 
say if Post Office Money were to agree - there would usually be a fee attached. 
The bond terms are clear in as much as this would be at Post Office Moneys discretion and 
due to financial hardship or other exceptional circumstances. The terms also set out that 
there might be a fee and that all requests must be made in writing. 
Post Office Money has told Mr B that exceptional circumstances mean an event outside of 
Mr Bs control, and something he couldnt have reasonably foreseen when he opened the 
bond. It gave examples indicating something likely to cause Mr B significant financial or 
personal detriment - such as bankruptcy, or diagnosis of a terminal illness. 
Im satisfied Mr B was correctly informed about the terms and conditions of the account - 
along with a clear explanation of what Mr B needed to do to make the request. Once in 
receipt of this request  only then could a decision be made as to whether Mr B met the 
requirements to break the bond. 
I dont consider theres enough evidence to enable me to say Post Office Money misled Mr B 
about breaking the bond, though its clear there might have been some level of 
misunderstanding as Mr B thought he could break the bond. Mr B said Post Office Money hadnt sent him a copy of the calls hed requested. But I 
understand the calls were sent in an encrypted zip file for security purposes. While Mr B told 
Post Office Money that he wasnt able to access the file and he requested that the calls were 
sent out again on a CD, thats not the same as saying they were never sent. Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for Post Office Money to send the calls to Mr B in the format that it did. 
Mr B told us he had to wait for a response to his complaint for six weeks. I can understand 
he would have found this frustrating in the circumstances. And having listened to calls from 
22 October and 25 October, I can understand why Mr B would have expected to gain some 
level of clarity in the early stages of his complaint. 
I can see Mr B first complained on 22 October, after receiving the letter advising him, he 
wasnt able to break the bond. And the final response letter was dated 11 December. Im 
satisfied Post Office Money responded in line with the Financial Conduct Authority hand 
book DISP 1.6.2 rules - which allows them up to eight-weeks to either send a final response, 
or to allow a complainant to refer matters to our service. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im not minded to require 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services to reimburse Mr B for any 
of the money he spent after the call, or to take any further steps to resolve his 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman