DRN-3066536
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account without warning and closed it. Mr H 
would like an explanation and an apology and compensation for the inconvenience of having 
the account blocked and closed.
I am aware that Mr H has a complaint regarding his companys business account which is 
being dealt with separately by this service. 
What happened
Both parties to this complaint are well acquainted with the facts so I dont propose to go 
through the facts in detail. However, a brief summary of the situation is as follows:
Mr H had a personal account with Revolut.
On 7 November 2019 Mr Hs account was blocked for a 48-hour period.
Mr Hs account was blocked on 3 January 2020. He believes the account was 
blocked in retaliation of his complaint that he raised regarding the blocking of his 
account in November 2019.
Mr Hs account with Revolut was closed on 29 May 2020. The funds in the account 
were returned to source.
Mr H complained to our service
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and issued two views
Mr H was unhappy with the views so asked for an ombudsmans decision
Mr H has provided a full document detailing the grounds of his complaint.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr H has mentioned other account holders in his submissions. However, I am only able to 
look at issues and provide a decision in relation to Mr Hs particular case.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers or security information. Some of the information Revolut 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential, so I wont be 
sharing this with Mr H.
Mr H has made a number of quite detailed submissions and also sought answers to his 
questions about the nature of Revoluts investigations. Ive considered all of these, but I dont 
consider its necessary to address each and every point that Mr H has made in order to meet 
my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, 
and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however 
that Ive considered everything that Mr H and Revolut have said before reaching my 
decision.
Mr Hs first point and what he considers the most important is that Revolut are making false 
representations regarding regulatory breaches. Revolut uses an automated process- which 
Mr H says suspends accounts in error.
Mr H believes that Revolut closed his account following the blocks placed on his account in 
November and January in order to cover up an error in the suspensions of the account. He 
believes there is no evidence of regulatory risk because the block was triggered following the 
automated system.
Mr H has said he thinks Revolut are not providing accurate evidence. He has referred to 
Revoluts automated process and has provided links to media articles that deal with this 
point. I want to reassure Mr H that I have looked at these articles. Mr H says that after 
blocking an account through their automated process Revolut will then close the account 
either because of serious regulatory risk by the customer or to cover up mistakes made by 
their system. I appreciate that Mr H finds all this frustrating, but I havent seen anything to 
doubt the accuracy of the information provided by Revolut in this case and I can only 
comment on this specific case.
Furthermore, Revolut are entitled to have systems in place as part of its business model. We 
are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell Revolut how to run its business or how to 
design or implement its processes.
Mr H says that the use of the automated system breaches principle 2 of the FCA principles  
the requirement that a firm conduct its business with skill care and diligence. I appreciate 
Mr Hs strength of feeling but this service isnt able to comment on a firms internal 
procedures that a business may put in place. If Mr H is concerned about any breaches of 
conduct by Revout he should direct his remarks at the regulator, the FCA.
Having looked at the evidence I cannot agree with Mr H that his account was closed in order 
to cover up deficiencies in the automated system and/or to victimise Mr H for raising a 
complaint with the ombudsman service, or to avoid paying compensation for the account 
suspension. It follows that I wont be asking Revolut to pay compensation for this aspect of 
Mr Hs complaint.
Account suspension
Mr Hs account was blocked in November 2019 and in January 2020. Revolut have relied on 
its terms and conditions and in particular have referred to paragraph 24.  
Paragraph 24 states:
We may close or suspend your account immediately, and end your access to our website, 
in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional circumstances include the following:
if we have good reason to suspect that you are behaving fraudulently;
if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information we need, 
or we have good reason to believe that information you have provided is incorrect or 
not true;
if you've broken these terms and conditions in a serious or persistent way and you 
haven't put the matter right within a reasonable time of us asking you to;
if we have good reason to believe that your use of the Revolut app is harmful to us or 
our software, systems or hardware;
if we have good reason to believe that you continuing to use your account could 
damage our reputation or goodwill;if we have asked you to repay money you owe us, and you have not done so within a 
reasonable period of time;
if you've been declared bankrupt; or
if we have to do so under any law, regulation, court order or ombudsmans 
instructions.
We may also decide to close or suspend your account for other reasons. We would contact 
you through the Revolut app at least two months before we do this.
Mr H doesnt agree that Revolut can rely on this term to block the account. His argument is 
that Revoluts terms and conditions in particular paragraph 24 is an exhaustive list of 
exceptional circumstances and he has not breached anything on that list. I appreciate Mr Hs 
point, but I disagree that the list is exhaustive because of the use of the word include. This 
suggests that other exceptional circumstances exist. So, I cant agree with Mr Hs 
interpretation.
Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that Revolut didnt breach the terms of the 
account or paragraph 24 in particular.
As mentioned, some of the information shared with us by Revolut is confidential. Mr H thinks 
that the suspension of his account was an error, however Revolut didnt make an error when 
it blocked Mr Hs account, it was following its legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr H has said he would like details of the exact law and regulations that Revolut has based 
its actions on. But Revolut arent required to give any further reasons. Moreover, Revoluts 
obligations are broad and varied, and it isnt the case that one regulation or law only applies 
to the circumstances of Mr H and this complaint.
Mr H may wish to research firms obligations and responsibilities, and how they relate to his 
circumstances and the decision Revolut have taken. As Mr H has asked about law and 
regulations, he may have already researched the matter. Because of his experience and 
background, I am sure he is aware of the position and no doubt why his account was 
blocked/terminated.
In any event our role is to see whether Revolut has made a mistake and if it has to put 
matters right. Ive reviewed Revoluts actions and Im satisfied its acted correctly and also in 
line with terms and conditions of Mr Hs account. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut 
have acted in accordance with whats required of them. There is nothing further I can ask 
them to do.
Access to forum
Mr H has complained that Revolut denied him access to the forum. I have looked at the 
terms and Revolut are entitled to (ii) terminate or deny access to and use of the Website to 
any individual or entity for any reason in Revoluts sole discretion. So, although I appreciate 
this was frustrating to Mr H and he doesnt believe that Revoluts objections to his posts are 
reasonable I dont think theyve done anything wrong.
Closure of account
Mr H thinks that his account was closed maliciously by Revolut because he raised a 
complaint with FOS.
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive first considered whether Revolut acted fairly when it closed Mr Hs account. Revoluts 
terms and conditions allow it to close an account without notice. The terms and conditions 
outline that Revolut can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut closed Mr Hs 
account without notice.
I have looked at the evidence regarding the account closure and Im satisfied that Mr Hs 
account was not closed because he raised a complaint with FOS.
For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for 
immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that 
the firm has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already 
done. It follows that Revolut are not in breach of the terms and conditions as a result of the 
closure of the account and I will not be asking it to pay Mr H compensation.
It also means that I dont think that Revolut has breached the FCA rules in particular 
Principle 6 the requirement to treat customers fairly. 
Account funds
On 29 May 2020 Mr H account was closed, but his funds werent returned. His funds were 
returned to source. Mr H is unhappy that he has suffered a loss equivalent of around £10 
because Revolut returned his funds to source which included his credit card and two other 
sources.
Revolut have argued that they acted within the relevant regulations  and returned Mr Hs 
funds to source. Im surprised that Revolut didnt ask Mr H at any point to provide proof of his 
entitlement to his funds  which is something Id have expected them to do. Revolut havent 
provided any further information to indicate why they think Mr H isnt entitled to the funds. 
Indeed, when the funds were returned to source most of these funds were returned to Mr H 
as he was the source of some of the funds. So, although I accept that Revolut is entitled to 
return funds to source in certain circumstances Im not satisfied that in this case they are 
justified in doing so.
Mr H has advised our service he has recovered all of his funds apart from Euros 90.59 which 
were returned to a third party. Mr H has said that he has incurred around £10 of losses 
through foreign exchange and loss of points on his card as a result of the funds being 
returned to source.
Customer service issues.
Mr H has said Revolut didnt inform him of the closure of the account. Mr H says the app was 
blocked due to the account being blocked. Mr H says there was no way of him accessing the 
notification that his account was closed.
I appreciate what Mr H is saying and I can see how it would be difficult for him to access the
app and read the messages on it if his account had been blocked. Although I cannot 
influence or comment on Revoluts process I dont think that in this case Mr H received good 
customer service from Revolut in respect of the notice to close the account.
CompensationI note that Revolut have offered Mr H £150 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this amount 
represents fair and reasonable compensation for the customer service issues he has 
experienced.
In addition, I think Revolut should compensate Mr H for his financial losses incurred when 
Revolut returned the funds to source which is Euro 90.59 and £10 together with 8 % interest 
from 29 May 2020 until the date the funds are returned.
I appreciate Mr H would like more compensation specifically he has referred to 
embarrassment he was caused as a result of the account being blocked. I appreciate that 
Mr H may have suffered embarrassment but since I dont think Revolut did anything wrong in 
respect of the account closure and block I wont be giving Mr H compensation for this aspect 
of his complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Revolut has made no comments to my provisional decision.
Mr H has agreed with my provisional decision to uphold the complaint and the 
compensation. He has disagreed on some points which I summarise below:
Mr H is unhappy that some of the information Revolut has provided is kept confidential. Mr H 
thinks that he should be able to see it so he can challenge it. Mr H thinks the information is 
erroneous.
Mr H says that none of the reasons to terminate or block the account apply to him.
Because Mr H hasnt seen the evidence, he disagrees that I can be satisfied Revolut acted 
in accordance with whats required of them.
Again, because Mr H hasnt seen the evidence, he is unable to agree with the conclusion 
that Revolut had acted fairly when they applied the terms for immediate closure. Mr H says 
that its implausible that Revolut can have a valid regulatory reason to close his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered the evidence in the light of Mr Hs comments.
I appreciate that Mr H hasnt seen the evidence that Revolut has provided and as I 
mentioned in my provisional decision some of the information is confidential. Mr H thinks that 
the information relied on by Revolut is erroneous. In view of his comments I have looked at 
the evidence again and Im satisfied that Revolut acted fairly and applied the terms and 
conditions of the account correctly when they closed Mr Hs account. 
Putting things right
Revolut should pay compensation to Mr H as I outline below.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct Revolut Ltd to:Refund Mr H £10 and Euro 90.59 together with 8% interest from the 29 May 2020 to 
the date the funds are returned
Pay Mr H 150 compensation for the inconvenience caused
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman