DRN-2624740
The complaint
Mr M has complained Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund money for transactions he didnt 
make.
What happened
On the evening of 2 March 2019, Mr M was out with friends. He drank and spent a fair bit. 
He cant remember much of what happened but knows his friends took him home. He spent 
most of the following day feeling a bit rough. He realised he wasnt sure what had happened 
to his Vanquis credit card. In the evening he checked the status of his Vanquis account and 
found transactions he didnt recognise.
Vanquis didnt sympathise with Mr Ms story of what had happened. They continued to hold 
him liable for two disputed transactions of £1,998 and £270. They felt it was unlikely a 
fraudster had got hold of his card the night (or morning) before and had held onto it for so 
long before attempting to use it.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. It was clear Mr M had used his PIN for his Vanquis 
card the night before the fraudulent transactions had taken place. She felt there was a clear 
point of compromise and there was no evidence which showed Mr M had made the 
transactions. She asked Vanquis to refund the money to Mr Ms account and pay him £100 
for the trouble caused.
Mr M accepted this outcome. Vanquis didnt. They pointed out that on previous occasions 
Mr M had mislaid his card, hed not checked his app to see whether there were any 
suspicious transactions so thought it was surprising hed done this this time. They also felt 
Mr M could have travelled back to where the disputed transactions had taken place and 
made them himself.
Mr Ms complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ill now explain why Ive made the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered detailed evidence provided to us by Vanquis 
which includes records of Mr Ms mobile banking use throughout this period. Ive also noted 
the detail in our investigators view of 13 January 2021 and feel no need to rerun some of the 
arguments made there.
Ive considered the following issues:
Mr M was on a night out. Hes been upfront about being unable to recall exactly what 
happened. Vanquis evidence shows how and when his card was used, including him 
using his PIN at 23:15 on 2 March for a transaction of £242.
There were a couple of contactless transactions after this. Overall I think its most 
likely these were transactions Mr M made as they took place in the same bar. Hes 
told us he was there for some time.
Mr M logged onto his mobile app and checked for any transactions after he realised 
he no longer had his card. Vanquis has questioned this action but as hed had 
pushback previously from Vanquis about not checking his account, I dont think its 
surprising Mr M wanted to arm himself before contacting Vanquis.
Vanquis has said Mr M could have travelled back across the Pennines to make these 
disputed transactions. Ive considered this possibility but seen no evidence why this 
would be the case.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms use of his Vanquis credit card. This had a reasonably high 
credit limit and Mr M used it frequently. Ive seen nothing to show hed attempted 
transactions in excess of his credit limit previously. Whereas there were three further 
attempts at transactions which were all declined because whoever had Mr Ms card 
was exceeding the credit limit. This points to me that the card was probably being 
used by someone who didnt know how much credit was available. That suggests 
someone other than Mr M.
I agree its unusual for a fraudster to get hold of someones card and not use it 
immediately. But we dont know exactly when or where Mr M lost his card.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr M in this case) authorised 
these transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of 
Mr Ms PIN, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Ms card and PIN. I see no reason to doubt Mr Ms testimony his card went missing 
on a night out.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont believe Mr M made or authorised the two 
disputed transactions. Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr M authorised the transactions, Vanquis will need to refund the 
transactions. I can see from Mr Ms subsequent statements that he paid off the debt in full by 
26 March 2019. On this basis theyll need to add 8% simple interest to the disputed 
transactions from that date onwards until the date of settlement. Its clear Mr M used money 
to settle his credit card bill to avoid any impact on his credit record.
Like our investigator I believe Vanquis need to pay Mr M £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. It seems to me they had all they need to make a decision that it was 
most likely Mr M had not made these transactions rather than the other way around.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Refund £2,268 for the two disputed transactions made on 3 March 2019;
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 26 March 2019 until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr M £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman