DRN-3210616
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he became the 
victim of a scam. TSB refunded him £7,800 but Mr M wants the remaining £6,665, together 
with compensation. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M began a relationship via email with a lady in Russia. This unfortunately turned out to be 
an elaborate scam. In March 2021 the scammer persuaded Mr M to transfer her some 
money. On 25 March 2021 he transferred £3,800, and on 31 March 2021 he transferred a 
further £4,000. The scammer convinced Mr M she would sell her apartment to pay back the 
money hed lent her.
On 29 April 2021 Mr M attempted to make a further payment to the scammer of £6,665. 
This, he said, was to cover a tax bill shed told Mr M she needed to pay urgently to secure 
the sale of her apartment, and in turn reimburse him the money hed lent her. Mr M went into 
a TSB branch to make the payment and he provided documents hed been sent by the 
scammer as proof the payment was genuine. Bank staff alerted Mr M to the possibility this 
was a scam and stopped him making the payment. The banking protocol was initiated and 
it was agreed that the payment would be declined going forward. 
On 30 April 2021 Mr M visited a different TSB branch to make the payment. He maintained 
this was a genuine transaction and again provided the documents hed been sent by the 
scammer. TSB then contacted Mr M on 5 May 2021, on the instruction of the beneficiary 
bank, to ask him several questions about the nature and origin of the payment. TSB 
provided the information to the beneficiary bank and the payment was processed. But it was 
returned to Mr Ms account by the beneficiary bank on 11 May 2021 because of commercial 
internal policy. 
Mr M made the payment again on 14 May 2021. On 20 May 2021 TSB asked Mr M more 
questions about the payment. The records indicate he said the money was for a friend/family 
member in Russia hed known for 12 years who needed to urgently settle a tax bill. He also 
referred to the documents hed provided previously as proof the payment was genuine. 
In early June 2021 Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam. Mr M complained to TSB 
saying it shouldve done more to protect him. On 25 June 2021 TSB contacted the 
beneficiary bank to try and recover the £6,665. It didnt receive a response. 
On 7 July 2021 TSB refunded the first two payments of £3,800 and £4,000 as part of the 
fraud guarantee. But said it wouldnt refund the £6,665 as Mr M made this payment having 
already been warned it was likely he was the victim of a scam. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service. He wanted TSB to 
refund him the remaining £6,665. He maintained it shouldve done more to protect him  
particularly when he provided TSB with documents from the scammer. Mr M felt TSB didnt 
give those documents proper attention, and if it had, the £6,665 payment wouldnt have 
been processed. Mr M also said TSB didnt do enough to try and recover the funds from the 
beneficiary bank. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found TSB had acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He maintained that if TSB 
had fully considered the documents hed provided, it wouldve stopped the £6,665 payment. 
And that the documents being in Russian didnt mean they couldnt be fully considered. He 
said TSB never questioned the authenticity of the documents he provided. Rather it 
reinforced his understanding that the sale of the apartment, and the subsequent money he 
was owed by the scammer, was at risk if the tax bill wasnt paid. Mr M was also concerned 
that one TSB branch initially stopped him making the payment, whilst another branch 
processed it. 
Mr M also questioned why TSB had refunded the first two payments  and whether that was 
part or a cover up and an admission of guilt on TSBs part to detract that a mistake had 
been made in letting the £6,665 payment be processed. He also wanted to know if, and 
when TSB contacted the police and the beneficiary bank to try and recover the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for similar reasons to that of the 
investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr M was hoping for and so this will come as a 
disappointment. Im really sorry to hear he has been the victim of a scam and has lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can understand why hed want to do all he can to 
recover the money he lost. But I need to decide whether TSB can fairly and reasonably be 
held responsible for Mr Ms loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to 
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment 
Services Regulations. These regulations explain that a payment can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. This is important because, generally speaking, account holders 
will be liable for payments theyve authorised, and banks will be liable for unauthorised 
payments. Ive taken this into account when considering whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The law also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds. 
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr M when he made the £6,665 payment, and whether it shouldve done more 
than it did before processing the payment. I also need to decide if TSB ought to have done 
more than it has already done to recover the funds after Mr M reported the scam. TSB refunded the payments for £3,800 and £4,000 in July 2021 as part of its fraud 
guarantee. And so, Ive not considered those payments as part of this review. My focus is on 
TSBs decision not to refund the £6,665 payment  because it thinks it did enough to alert 
Mr M to the possibility hed been the victim of a scam. 
Im satisfied Mr M authorised the payment, albeit on the instructions of a very convincing 
fraudster. As the payment was authorised, TSB isnt liable for the transaction. But I now 
need to consider if it couldve done more before processing the payment. 
TSB first questioned Mr M about the purpose of the £6,665 payment when he was in branch 
on 29 April 2021. On this occasion, Mr M was trying to make the payment via his business 
account. Several bank staff were involved in the conversations, and I can see from the notes 
that the bank manager advised this looks like a scam and the documents [Mr M] provided 
do not look genuine. TSB were so concerned about the payment, that it initiated the banking 
protocol - an initiative between banks and the police to identify consumers who are in the 
process of sending funds to a scammer. As part of this protocol, the police were called and 
TSB put a note on Mr Ms business account to say, this transaction is to be declined going 
forward.
Mr M then withdrew £7,000 in cash from his business account and paid it into his personal 
account  saying it was to buy a van. But it would seem this was to allow Mr M to have 
sufficient funds in his personal account so he could make the £6,665 payment in a different 
TSB branch. 
Mr M has questioned why he could make this payment given it had previously been 
declined. TSB has told me that as Mr M was using his personal account, the notes on his 
business account about his first attempt to make the payment the day before, and the 
initiation of the banking protocol, wouldnt have been seen by TSB staff. 
Taking everything into account I think TSB took significant action to alert Mr M to the 
possibility he was the victim of a scam. Furthermore, I can see that Mr M took active steps to 
evade the advice and warnings which had been given by TSB on 29 April 2021. And given 
that he was determined to make this payment, despite it later being returned by the 
beneficiary bank and him being questioned twice by TSB about the purpose and origin of the 
payment, I dont think any further intervention by TSB wouldve made a difference. The 
fraudster was so convincing that Mr M maintained his story throughout. 
Mr Ms focus is on the documents he provided to support his belief the payment was 
genuine. He thinks TSB shouldve questioned their validity  but instead he says TSB 
encouraged him to make the payment. I wasnt party to the conversations that took place 
between Mr M and bank staff. But I question to what extent bank staff could be expected to 
scrutinize documents such as these, particularly given that Mr M himself believed the 
documents to be genuine. 
I can also see from the records that it wasnt the documents alone that enabled the payment 
to be processed. TSB questioned Mr M about the payment on more than one occasion, and 
he provided what TSB believed to be plausible responses. I should also bear in mind that a 
bank has a duty to follow their customers instructions and process payments a customer 
authorises it to make. TSB was following Mr Ms instructions - instructions he maintained 
despite being alerted to the fact he could be the victim of a scam. 
So, on balance, I dont think TSB couldve done more before processing the £6,665 payment 
 and even if it had, I dont think it wouldve made a difference. When Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam in early June 2021, TSB contacted the 
beneficiary bank on 25 June 2021 to see if any funds remained. No response was received.
I accept that prompt action to try and recover funds can increase the likelihood of those 
funds still being available. However, Im also aware that funds are often removed very 
quickly from the beneficiary account in the case of scams. And I also must bear in mind that 
overseas beneficiary banks are under no obligation to respond to retrieval requests from UK 
banks. And so, even if TSB had tried to recover the funds sooner, I think its unlikely to have 
resulted in a different outcome. Im therefore satisfied TSB made reasonable efforts to 
recover the funds Mr M lost through the scam. So, I dont think it needed to do anything else. 
Finally, Mr M thinks TSB shouldve involved the police at the point the scam was discovered. 
TSB contacted the police as part of the banking protocol when Mr M first tried to make the 
£6,665 payment. I can also see from the notes that TSB advised Mr M to contact the police 
when he realised hed been the victim of a scam. I think this was reasonable, because at the 
point Mr M reported the scam, the money had already been sent. TSB was under no duty to 
report the matter to the police on Mr Ms behalf, and so I dont think it needed to do anything 
more here. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold TSB 
responsible for Mr Ms loss in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman