DRN-3741986
The complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) irresponsibly 
increased the credit limit on his credit card on two occasions, when he couldnt afford the 
repayments.
What happened
Mr D was provided with a credit card by AESEL in June 2017, with an initial credit limit of 
£15,000. The credit limit was increased in June 2018 to £21,000, then in October 2018 to 
£24,000. Mr D said that during this period he was gambling uncontrollably, as is evident from 
a number of large cash payments from his account. He only managed to make the payments 
by taking out further loans. He said AESEL didnt ask him any questions about his 
circumstances before increasing the credit limit. He paid off the balance on the card in 
October 2021 by taking out a further loan.
AESEL said it had carried out all necessary checks before increasing the limit. It says it has 
seen no evidence of various consolidation loans Mr D said hed taken out. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our investigator said that as Mr Ds indebtedness 
increased substantially at the time of the increases, the repayments were unlikely to be 
affordable or sustainable. However she didnt think that from the evidence of Mr Ds use of 
his account, AESEL could have been expected to pick up on his gambling problems.
AESEL didnt agree and the matter was passed to me for further consideration. I asked Mr D 
to provide evidence of the loans he had taken out, which he has done. I also asked AESEL 
for evidence of the credit checks it had carried out before the credit limit increases. It couldnt 
do that, although has provided details of its overall summary of Mr Ds risk scores and debt 
capacity at the time of both increases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AESEL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that AESEL 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where AESEL ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ds indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
Mr D was provided with a credit card by AESEL in June 2017. Because of the high credit 
limit, AESEL should have done thorough checks before offering the card. Mr B was on a 
high salary and a lot of his indebtedness was on mortgage. Mr B didnt complain about the 
actual issue of the card to him. However he has complained about the credit limit increases.
first increase
This was in June 2018, although Mr D was notified of it in late April 2018, so I assume that 
was when any checks were done. AESEL checked Mr Ds credit rating and satisfied itself 
that he was a safe risk to provide an increased credit limit. All we really know are from 
Mr Ds figures which are that he had short term debt of £10,591, credit limits of £33,900,
(I presume annual) payments of £30,870, and spending of £7,734. He had taken out a loan 
with his bank in February 2015 for £7,500 and a further one for £5,000 in March 2018. Im 
aware that he took out a loan with a building society in October 2017. Although Im unaware 
of the amount, he was paying over £370 a month for this loan. 
I think there is insufficient evidence from AESEL about the various accounts and how it 
assessed the affordability of the credit. From Mr Bs bank statements (which he has supplied 
to us} I can see that around about the time the credit limit was due to be increased, he was 
substantially overdrawn at his bank. I think on balance that the overdraft would have shown 
up in any credit search and the account would be shown overdrawn monthly. I think this 
should have been sufficient to alert AESEL to find out more about Mr Ds finances and had it 
done so it would have shown that he was carrying out very substantial betting transactions, 
especially in the period leading up to the increase. Whilst he did not do gambling on the card 
(as Ill set out below) I think this would have been of sufficient concern not to increase the 
limit further. It was also evident that there were transfers into the account from other credit 
cards and regular overdraft charges.
I dont think AESEL acted fairly in increasing the limit.
second increase
If the first increase hadnt been applied then it follows that it cant have been fair to provide 
the second increase. I believe Mr Ds short term debt would have gone up to about £16,000 
by then. Mr D had provided a figure of £26,000 as at February 2019, but he had taken out a 
further loan of £16,000 in January 2019.
He was still gambling heavily and in the month or so before the increase he was still running 
an overdraft. So I dont think AESEL made a fair lending decision in respect of the second 
increase.
gambling
Mr D says AESEL should have noticed he was using online payment services for substantial 
cash transactions, and this service facilitates gambling. However it does appear that another 
cash transaction to a different payment service was queried by AESEL and Mr D explained it 
was for a purchase. The online service used doesnt just deal with gambling and I think it 
quite likely that had AESEL queried those payments Mr D wouldnt have disclosed they were 
for gambling. So I dont think AESEL would have discovered that his cash transactions on 
the account were used for gambling.
Putting things right
As I dont think AESEL should have increased Mr Ds credit limit above £15,000, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. However, Mr D has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, AESEL should take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £15,000. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr D along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. AESEL should also remove any adverse information recorded after 6 June 
2018 regarding this account from Mr Ds credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £15,000, AESEL should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr D for the remaining amount. Once Mr D 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 6 June 
2018 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AESEL to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he/she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman