DRN-4142913
The complaint
Mr L, on behalf of T, complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund transactions he didnt 
make.
What happened
Mr L fell victim to a scam in April 2022. Following an issue with his internet connection, he 
received a call from someone posing as a representative from his internet service provider. 
During this call, he was advised to download software which he was led to believe would 
help restore his internet connection  but this instead allowed for remote access. 
Having downloaded the software, Mr L was asked to put his phone face down by the router 
and he was periodically required to use his fingerprint on the phone. He believed his 
fingerprint was requested to allow a refund of £400 for the issues with the internet 
connection hed been experiencing and, seemingly, to enable his connection issues to be 
rectified. But, unbeknownst to Mr L, payments were instead being made to a scammer.
The call is said to have lasted around four hours with multiple payments being made to the 
scammer during a two-hour period. Some of the payments were made due to money being 
moved in from another bank account and then transferred out of Ts ClearBank account. 
Mr L complained to ClearBank about his lost funds. But it didnt uphold his complaint. It 
noted that Mr L hadnt notified his internet service provider of an issue and said it wasnt 
convinced being asked to install software would be the usual approach utilised by the 
internet provider. ClearBank thinks Mr L should have identified an issue when he was asked 
to put his phone face down and also when asked to put his finger on the scanner. It also 
considers the £400 compensation Mr L was supposedly offered was too good to be true and 
thinks this should have raised concerns. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He concluded that Mr L hadnt completed all the 
steps to make the disputed payments, or provided consent for them to be made, so were 
unauthorised. And he didnt think Mr L had failed to comply with the terms of the account 
with gross negligence or intent. 
ClearBank disagreed and largely reiterated the points it had previously made. It maintained 
that there were sufficient red flags for Mr L to have considered the situation more carefully 
at the time. And it referenced that it took Mr L an hour to report the fraud from the time of the 
last payment which it said seemed like a long time. 
I contacted ClearBank informally, as the rules we follow allow, in an attempt to resolve the 
complaint. I let it know that I was minded to agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for the same reasons already provided. But ClearBank maintained its stance. It 
stated that none of the payments could have been made if Mr L hadnt placed his finger on 
the scanner. So, it believes T is liable for the payments made, even if Mr L was tricked into 
making them  and believes the payments to have been authorised. It also believes that 
Mr L had multiple opportunities to question the nature of the situation and said the outcome 
would have been different if he had.
So, at the request of ClearBank, Im now issuing my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons:
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that T 
is liable for authorised payments and ClearBank is liable for unauthorised payments.
ClearBank says that Mr Ls fingerprint authorised the payments, so the payments 
were authorised. But I disagree. To consider these payments authorised, the PSRs 
explain that Mr L, on behalf of T, must have authenticated the payments and given 
his consent to the execution of the payment transactions  and that consent must 
have been in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him 
and ClearBank.  While theres been no dispute around authentication  it seems to 
have been accepted by both parties that payments were made largely due to Mr Ls 
fingerprint, as well as one-time passcodes being entered that had been sent to his 
phone  there is a question around consent.
To instruct a payment, the payer is required to input the correct unique identifier for 
that transaction into the platform, such as the sort code and account number or 
IBAN. But Im persuaded that Mr L didnt enter any of this information, nor did he 
allow anyone to do so on his behalf. It would appear that the fraudster entered the 
required information while they had remote access to Mr Ls device. It follows that 
Mr L didnt consent to the payments in accordance with the agreed form or 
procedure. He didnt follow all the necessary steps and, as ClearBank acknowledged, 
he wasnt aware these payments were happening at the time. I consider the 
payments to be unauthorised.
Given this, ClearBank would be required to issue a refund unless Mr L acted 
fraudulently (which theres been no suggestion of) or failed to comply with the terms 
of the account with intent or gross negligence. Im satisfied there was no intent on 
Mr Ls part here, so the question is whether he failed to comply with the terms of his 
account with gross negligence.
ClearBank disagreed with our Services assessment of gross negligence. It reiterated 
that the £400 supposed compensation, purely because of some internet issues, was 
too good to be true. It said Mr L bears the responsibility of understanding how 
payments are made. And that it should be common knowledge that placing ones 
finger on the scanner isnt a requirement for issuing a payment from a different 
account. So, it thinks Mr L should have questioned the situation further and that this 
would have led to a different outcome. 
I acknowledge ClearBanks comments. And I also agree that there were aspects that 
should have appeared concerning, particularly with the benefit of hindsight. It looks 
as though a substantial number of payments were made which would have required 
either a fingerprint or a one-time passcode  and I can see why Mr L might have 
been expected to question this. But some of this, particularly any payments made 
requiring one-time passcodes, would have been happening entirely unbeknownst to 
Mr L, using remote access to his devices. And where Mr L was providing his 
fingerprint, he was doing so believing  at that moment in time  it was required as a 
result of his internet connectivity issues  supported by the fact his screen was repeatedly going blank. But even if I accept that there were things Mr L could have 
done differently  such as questioning things further  I dont think he acted with very 
significant carelessness to fairly conclude that he failed with gross negligence.
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded T is liable for these disputed 
payments. And I dont consider that taking an hour to report the issue was 
unreasonable, nor does it make a difference to the overall outcome as it doesnt 
negate any of the points raised above. So ClearBank needs to put things right  by 
refunding Ts losses alongside interest to compensate for the time its been out of 
pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ts complaint and require ClearBank Limited to, 
within 28 days of acceptance of the decision, do the following:
Pay T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £72,925.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman