DRN-1742740
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because he says that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S booked a holiday in August 2018. As part of a holiday booking Mr S added travel 
insurance for himself and his wife at a cost of £81. The holiday company sold the insurance 
as an appointed representative of Rock Insurance.
Mr S was unable to travel for his holiday due to health reasons and proceeded to cancel the 
trip and make a claim on his insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs S were charged £185 each for the policy excess on cancellation of the holiday. 
Mr S says that he was never told that the excess would be £185 per passenger and 
complained to Rock Insurance. Mr S says that if he had been made aware that the excess 
was that high he wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
Rock Insurance looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it on the basis that the excess 
was made clear in the policy documents which were emailed to Mr S within 48 hours of him 
purchasing the policy. Rock Insurance say that Mr S had 14 days within which to cancel the 
policy if he was not happy with it. They went on to say that Mr S was made aware of the 
excess on the policy during and after the purchase. 
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said that Mr S had not been 
provided with enough information to make an informed decision and thought that Rock 
Insurance should pay Mr S £150 compensation. Rock Insurance didnt agree and therefore 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I have explained my reasons 
below. 
When looking at this complaint I have looked at whether the business has given the 
consumer enough information, and that the information was clear, fair and not misleading 
The business should do this by drawing the consumers attention to significant and unusual 
features of the policy at the appropriate time. I would expect information about the policy 
excess to be included in this.  
Mr S was provided with detailed information regarding his policy within the documents that 
were emailed to him after he had purchased the policy. Rock Insurance have said that Mr S 
should have reviewed these documents when they were emailed to him and if the policy 
wasnt suitable he could have cancelled it. They have also said that Mr S was made aware 
of the excess during and after the purchase. Mr S has said that no information was provided 
to him with regards to the excess during the telephone call with the holiday company. 
I have listened to the telephone call in which Mr S purchases his travel insurance. The 
purpose of the telephone call was to book a holiday. As the holiday company was acting as 
an appointed representative of Rock Insurance in selling the travel policy, Rock Insurance is 
responsible for the information given in the call.
The operative asks Mr S if he would like to add travel insurance to the holiday for £81. She 
confirms that this is the premium for both Mr and Mrs S and that the policy provides instant 
cancellation cover. There is no mention of excess except in relation to adding any pre-
existing medical conditions to the policy after the sale. I therefore do not agree that Mr S was 
made aware of the excess during the purchase process. Mr S was also not told to check the 
policy documents to ensure that the cover was correct in the same way he was told to check 
the holiday details. 
The relevant regulations that insurers operate under, Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) which says the following; 
ICOBS 6.4.2 states that Oral sales: ensuring customers can make an informed decision;
1. If a firm provides information orally during a sales dialogue with a customer on a 
main characteristic of a policy, it must do so for all the policys main characteristics. 
2. A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that the information provided orally is 
sufficient to enable the customer to take an informed decision on the basis of that 
information, without overloading the customer or obscuring other parts of the 
information. 
ICOBS 6.4.3 states the following;
1. A policys main characteristics include its significant benefits, its significant 
exclusions and limitations, its duration and price information., 
Rock Insurance should provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. This 
information was provided after Mr S had purchased the insurance policy and not during the 
purchase. I think that the excess of £185 per person is a significant feature of the policy and 
therefore should have been brought to Mr Ss attention during the purchase process. I dont 
think that Mr S was given enough information at the point of purchase to make an informed 
decision as to whether to buy the policy. Mr S has told us that had he been told about the 
excess at the point of purchase he would have declined to add the cover to the holiday and 
purchased a policy elsewhere. 
Putting things right
It is difficult to conclude that Mr S has incurred a financial loss here since a policy with a 
lower excess with a different provider may have meant a higher premium. I cant undo the 
policy mis-sale by rescinding the contract since Mr S has already claimed on it. I think given 
the issues Mr S experienced, compensation of £150 seems fair and reasonable to reflect the 
distress to Mr S at discovering the cover with Rock Insurance wasnt what he had thought. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Rock Insurance Services Limited 
to pay Mr S £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman