DRN-2135285
The complaint
Miss I complains that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited irresponsibly gave her two 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss I says she took out two loans in September 2018 and February 2019 with Future 
Finance for post graduate course fees and living expenses. She says the lending was 
unaffordable and irresponsible and also says she wasnt aware the interest rate was 
variable. Miss I in summary says she didnt understand the credit agreement and prior to the 
loans being taken out was in obvious financial difficulties and had defaults on her credit file 
and payday loans. She would like the interest refunded and compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience she says she has been caused.
Future Finance says these were student loan applications and part of the loan was paid for 
course fees. It says the repayments were designed to be affordable whilst in education and it 
takes into account likely salary based on the course being completed. Future Finance says it 
carried out appropriate and reasonable affordability checks and took into account Miss Is 
projected income. It says the loan accounts terms and conditions make clear the interest 
rate is variable and says Miss I told it she had secured a higher paying job and would be 
able to afford increased payments.
Miss I brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss I had agreed to the account terms and conditions which made clear the interest 
rate was variable. The investigator thought a student loan was not the same as a personal 
loan and that Miss I was in employment when the loans were taken out. The investigator 
also thought that the defaults on Miss Is credit file had been satisfied and that she appeared 
to manage her finances appropriately and that Future Finance had tried to help her with 
financial difficulties.
Miss I doesnt accept that view and in summary says she had a loan application rejected by 
a different lender at the time and says Future Finance says it requires nine months loan 
repayments before it will consider a second loan but, in her case, did so after six months. 
She says there is no record of a search by Future Finance on her credit file and says it ought 
to have asked to see her bank statements and would have seen her debt problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Miss I will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she 
feels about this complaint. I also make clear that I cant consider the actions of a different 
lender within this complaint and I dont think it possible to conclude why that lender refused 
any loan application or if a similar type of loan was sought.
I accept that lenders should carry out all proportionate and reasonable checks before 
deciding to lend but I also accept that such checks will vary depending on the type of 
lending, the amount and what the lending is for. There is no dispute here that Future Finance 
lent to Miss I so that she could complete a post graduate course which is a necessity to 
enter the profession I think Miss I wished to enter. In those circumstances I find that the 
checks Future Finance should carry out are different to those carried out, for example for a 
personal loan, and there must be a consideration of Miss Is future income and career.
I have looked at the loan applications which I can see that Miss I signed and by doing so 
agreed to the loan account terms and conditions. Im satisfied the applications and terms 
and conditions make clear that the interest rate is variable, and that information is 
prominently displayed within the agreement. So, I dont think Future Finance made a mistake 
or acted unfairly and I cant fairly hold it responsible for Miss I not appreciating that. I accept 
that is not the main part of Miss Is complaint, but I make that clear as I can see it forms part 
of this complaint.
I have looked at Miss Is credit file and I accept that she did have defaults registered on it as 
well as payday loans in 2017. So, I accept that Miss I did have adverse information recorded 
on her credit file. But I can also see the defaults appear to have been satisfied and so was 
the payday lending and that Miss I appears to have managed her finances appropriately. So, 
I dont think the information on Miss Is credit report in its self ought to have meant that 
Future Finances decision to lend was irresponsible.
I have made clear that the lending here was not a personal loan but was in part for 
educational fees and so Future Finance would not just look at affordability at the time of 
lending. But Im satisfied at the time of lending Miss I was in employment. Im also satisfied 
having looked at Future Finances records that it did carry out what I think are reasonable 
and proportionate checks on the loan applications. I can see that Miss Is credit file was 
checked and that detailed calculations were carried out on Miss Is projected income if she 
completed her studies and that Future Finance reasonably concluded that the loans were 
affordable. I can also see that Miss I told Future Finance that she had secured a higher 
paying job which meant she could afford increased payments shortly. It is not clear, but I 
think it likely that if Miss I did secure a higher paying job then that may have been as a result 
of her qualification which was funded by the loan.
I appreciate Miss I says Future Finance ought not to have approved the second loan as only 
six months not nine months had passed between the applications. I think its up to Future 
Finance to decide upon such matters when exercising its commercial judgement and not 
something I can fairly interfere in. And in any event, I dont think it would have made any real 
difference if Miss I had waited a further three months as I have not seen any evidence that 
the application would have been refused.
Overall, I find Future Finance did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the loan 
applications and in calculating Miss Is future income based on her chosen career. I accept 
that circumstances can change but that doesnt mean the original lending decision was 
wrong. And I also accept that for these types of loans it is not reasonable and proportionate 
to simply consider a borrowers present position or what has taken place in the past. I also 
make clear that I think Future Finance has acted positively and sympathetically to Miss Is 
financial position and can see that a repayment plan has been agreed and that it has 
provided details of organisations that could provide assistance to her.
For those reasons I cant fairly order Future Finance to refund the interest to Miss I or pay 
her the compensation she would like. I think this brings and end to what we in trying to sort 
out this dispute informally can do.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman