DRN-1630050
 
The complaint
Mrs R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
Mrs R took out the PPI policy in 1989 when she took out a mortgage with Nationwide 
(trading at the time as Nationwide Anglia). Mrs R paid a monthly premium of £10 for the 
policy. It would have paid a monthly benefit of £250 for up to 24 months per successful claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she thought the PPI was compulsory. Nationwide hasnt been able to 
provide us with copies of any of the paperwork Mrs R signed when she applied for 
the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long 
ago the sale took place. I dont know what Nationwide said to Mrs R about the PPI 
when she applied for the mortgage. But without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude that its more likely than not that it didnt make clear to Mrs R that the policy 
was optional. 
 
Mrs R says Nationwide recommended the PPI to her. Nationwide says no 
recommendation would have been made. And based on what we know about the 
way Nationwide sold single premium PPI policies over the phone at the time, I think it 
thats likely to be right. This means that it didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mrs R. But it did need to provide her with enough information to enable her to 
decide for himself whether the PPI was right for her, knowing what alternative means shed have had of making her monthly loan repayments if she was off sick, or if she 
lost her job.
 
Mrs Rs told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But if shed 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid the monthly benefit for up to 24 months. Thats significantly longer 
than Mrs Rs told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs R received from her 
employer. So Mrs R could have used those to meet other living costs.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs Rs told us her partner and family could have helped with her 
monthly mortgage payments if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant 
be sure that Mrs Rs partner and family would have been in a position to help if the 
need had arisen. 
 
The mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment, secured on Mrs R's 
property, and the consequences of not keeping up with her monthly mortgage 
payments could have been serious. So taking everything into account, I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mrs R.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, 
Mrs R was eligible for the policy. And based on what she's told us about her 
circumstances at the time, she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions). Taking everything into account, Im not 
convinced that Mrs R would have made a different decision about taking the PPI out 
even if shed been given better information about the policy. 
 
The monthly premium for the policy was shown on the notice of completion that was 
sent to Mrs R soon after the mortgage started. So I think she'd have understood how 
much it would cost each month. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could 
have cancelled the PPI at any time with no further cost if her circumstances changed, 
or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover. I've seen copies of Mrs R's annual 
mortgage statements for 1989 and 1990. I can see that she paid a total of £40 for 
PPI in 1990. That equates to four monthly premiums. So it looks likely that the PPI 
was, in fact, cancelled around seven months after it started.
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R. I can understand her frustration that Im having to reach my 
decision without sight of the documents she signed at the time. But for the reasons Ive set 
out, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman