DRN-3402431
The complaint
Mr P complains MotoNovo Finance Limited (Motonovo) provided him with a car that he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
On 28 November 2019, Mr P entered into a 61 month hire purchase agreement for a used 
car. The cars cash price was £10,499 and he paid a cash deposit of £1,000. The car was 
over seven years old and it had travelled over 90,500 miles. 
Mr P had an existing car finance agreement with another finance provider with a settlement 
balance of £14,650 and he part exchanged his previous car for £9,632. As part of this 
agreement, he also took out a loan for £2,027 to cover part of the negative equity. Based on 
the total amount payable, he was required to pay £324 per month.
On 4 December 2019, Mr P reported a number of issues with the car to the dealership. This 
included:
1. Loud knocking sound when the car is driven at speed;
2. Missing cover over some electronics under the bonnet;
3. Faulty drivers window;
4. Faulty handbrake;
5. Faulty brakes;
6. Front brakes vibrate; 
7. Faulty rear window washer.
The car was returned to the dealership on 31 December 2019. They checked the knocking 
noise, the drivers window and the missing cover. According to the dealership, the bumper 
was damaged and not attached correctly however they believed this was caused by Mr P as 
there was no indication of this during the test drive. However as a gesture of goodwill, they 
refitted and secured the bumper. Its unclear whether any other repairs were carried out.
On 6 February 2020, Mr P said the above issues remained and he also reported new ones:
8. Faulty windscreen washer; 
9. Cracks on the rear of the car;
10. Suspected oil leak.
On 11 February 2020, the car was returned again and on that occasion the dealership re-
sealed one of the tyres. They also noted a valve was leaking and it needed to be replaced 
but they declined to fix it.
On 26 February 2020 Mr P complained to MotoNovo and requested to reject the car. In 
addition to the above issues, he also said there were:
Issues with the bluetooth;
Issues with the tyre sensor;
Water leaking through the drivers door;
Engine management lights on the dashboard;
Cracked windscreen;
DAB radio not working;
Electric seats not working;
Missing cover in glove compartment.
The dealership agreed to carry out further repairs and the car was returned in March 2020. 
However due to the national lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a delay to source 
a required part, the repairs were delayed. The car was at the dealership between March and 
June 2020. A repair was carried out to the drivers window (motor replaced) and as a gesture 
of goodwill, the dealership cleaned the subframe and removed stones to stop the front 
brakes from vibrating. In relation to the cracked windscreen, although they said this wasnt 
present at supply and was most likely leading to issues with the electrics, they agreed to 
cover the insurance excess to get the windscreen fixed but Mr Ps policy had expired. 
The car was ready to be collected in June 2020 but according to the dealership Mr P was 
unwilling to take it back. He eventually collected the car in July 2020 however he complained 
faults remained. In August 2020, he provided a report from a third party garage who said 
many of the above faults remained. It confirmed the windscreen was cracked and there were 
signs of repairs to the bonnet and the A pillar, they believed this explained the stress crack in 
the windscreen.  
In September 2020, Motonovo arranged for an independent inspection. The car had 
travelled 93,485 miles at that point. The report said it was clear repairs had been carried out 
but it concluded:
There are multiple faults in regards to the vehicles windscreen, the washer pump not 
working, the handbrake unit needing adjustment, the TPMS light illuminated and the rear 
bumper insecure, all of which require further investigation under workshop conditions.
However it said the faults wouldnt have been present at supply nor was it a result of 
unsuccessful repairs. Instead it concluded it was down to wear and tear. A discrepancy was 
identified about the mileage because the agreement given to the inspector showed the car 
had travelled 61,700 miles at supply when in fact it had covered over 90,500. The inspector 
reconsidered his findings in light of the same but felt it didnt impact the overall conclusions 
of the report. 
Mr P requested to reject the car as he didnt believe it was of satisfactory quality. He also 
made Motonovo aware that due to the pandemic, he was experiencing financial difficulty.
Motonovo said the dealership had repaired the outstanding mechanical faults at no cost to 
Mr P and based on the findings of the inspection report, they were not responsible for the 
current faults. 
In January 2021, Mr P arranged for his own independent inspection. The car had travelled 
93,490 miles at that point. It said there were a number of faults present which hadnt been 
repaired by the dealership and where repairs had been completed not all of them were to a satisfactory standard meaning the car wasnt safe to drive. This included a faulty handbrake, 
spongy brake pedal, faulty screen washers, oil leak, insecure bumper and faulty tyre 
pressure monitor system. This second inspection report concluded the faults wouldve been 
present when the car was supplied meaning it was of unsatisfactory quality.
Our investigator recommended the case was upheld. They outlined the different faults and 
said they believed there were a few which were likely to have been present at supply, 
namely the handbrake, screen washers and the window. Because of this they concluded the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and because there had been at least one opportunity to fix 
the car, Mr P should now be allowed to reject it. The investigator made a number of 
recommendations for Motonovo to put things right. 
Motonovo disagreed. In summary, they said:
- Although there were current faults, there was insufficient evidence they were present 
at supply;
- The dealership had completed repairs and the first inspection report said the faults 
were due to wear and tear;
- Mr B hasnt used the car for extended periods of time and this is likely to have 
contributed to the condition of the car;
- Mr P has raised issues after the initial inspection in September 2020 so they couldnt 
have been present at supply;
- For the second inspection, its unclear what information was provided to the engineer 
and if they were aware of the findings of the first inspection. 
In March 2022, I issued my provisional decision upholding the complaint, I said:
Mr P acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Motonovo was the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint 
about the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Mr P was supplied with a used car that was over seven years old and had 
travelled over 90,500 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have 
suffered wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
Since acquiring the car, Mr P has raised a number of faults as summarised above. The 
investigator outlined their thoughts on each fault and explained whether they believed it was 
present at the time of supply and if it meant the car was of satisfactory quality. In this 
decision, I wont repeat them all again instead I will focus on what I consider to be significant 
faults.
Faulty window
Based on the evidence of both parties, I believe there was a fault with the drivers window 
because it wouldnt open and close correctly. Mr P reported this within days of acquiring the 
car and given how quickly it was identified, Im satisfied this fault was most likely to be 
present or developing at the point of supply. Even though I found this to be a fault, I must 
consider whether I believe this made the car of unsatisfactory quality given the age and mileage of the car, Ive already set out the test above. Having done so I believe this made 
the car of unsatisfactory quality, I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a car that 
cost £10,499 would have such a fault within a matter of days following supply even given its 
age and mileage. 
In line with what I would expect, a repair was carried out around June 2020 at no cost to 
Mr P. By the time of the inspection in September 2020, no fault was found which suggests 
the repair was successful. 
 
Screen washers
Mr P complained about faulty washers within days of acquiring the car. Based on the 
findings of both inspection reports, its clear they werent functioning as they should so Im 
satisfied this is a fault. I wouldnt consider a car to experience such an issue so soon after 
supply therefore Im satisfied its most likely this fault was present or developing at supply.
Ive checked the MOT standards, I can see this would be considered a major defect as its a 
safety issue so the car wouldnt be deemed road-worthy. I note the car passed its MOT 
without any advisories approximately a week before it was supplied to Mr P so its unclear 
why this wasnt identified, perhaps it was an intermittent issue. In any event, if MOT 
standards would consider such a fault to make the car unroadworthy, I think its fair to say 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. There is no evidence to suggest a repair 
was attempted by the dealership.
Hand brake
Similar to the above Mr P complained about issues with the handbrake within days of 
acquiring the car. 
The first inspection report commented the handbrake did engage but the unit needed 
adjusting. However I note, the car wasnt taken for a road test which is unfortunate because 
it wasnt tested in different conditions. This is likely to explain why the second inspection in 
January 2021, where a five mile road test was carried out, was able to provide more detail. It 
said handbrake doesnt hold on a slope and has no reverse travel, this requires 
adjustment/repair and would fail a MOT test. 
Again having checked the MOT standards, such a fault would be considered a major defect. 
For the same reasons as above, Im satisfied Mr P raised this issue within days of acquiring 
the car so Im persuaded its more likely than not it was present or developing at supply. 
Bumper
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr P complained about a loud knocking sound when the car 
was driven at speed and it was suspected this was related to the bumper. Based on the 
information of the dealership and both inspections, they state there was an issue with the 
bumper, notably it wasnt attached securely. On this basis, I believe this is a fault. The 
dealership said they believed it was caused by Mr P as it wasnt identified during the test 
drive.  But Im not persuaded by this argument as its likely the car wouldve only been taken 
on a brief test drive and likely at a low speed meaning such a fault may not be easily 
identified bearing in mind  Mr P said it was noticeable at high speeds. But having had the car 
for a few days travelling at different speeds, its most likely this wouldve become more 
apparent which is what I believe has happened here and this caused Mr P to complain. 
There is insufficient evidence for me to say what happened and whether or not this fault was 
caused by Mr P after he acquired the car. However given how quickly he reported it, on 
balance, Im persuaded it was present or developing at supply. 
To reiterate, I know Ive only focused on the above four faults although I acknowledge Mr P 
reported several others. However Im satisfied these faults were reported within a week of Mr 
P acquiring the car and taking everything into account, Im satisfied they were most likely 
present and/or developing at supply. Given the number and nature of the faults, its my 
opinion the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied meaning there was a 
breach of contract. I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a car at a cost £10,499 
to experience such issues at the point of supply or imminently afterwards, even if its a used 
car.
Where this happens and its outside the short term right to reject period (30 days), the CRA 
allows one opportunity for repair and its worth highlighting this applies to the entire car not 
one repair for each component. If this repair doesnt fix the faults or others remain, the law 
allows Mr P to reject the car. In this case, the car was returned for repair on more than one 
occasion, namely twice in December 2019, February 2020 and March 2020 and based on 
the findings of the two inspections, its clear faults remain. Therefore I believe Mr P has the 
right to reject the car now as there has been at least one opportunity to fix the car.
This means the agreement should end, the car should be collected at no cost to Mr P and 
adverse information about this agreement should be removed from his credit file. 
The car was at the dealership for repair between March and June 2020, during that time Mr 
P was provided with a courtesy car so I dont think it would be reasonable to say Motonovo 
should refund these payments as Mr P still had access to a car albeit not the one under his 
agreement. He also managed to cover at least 2,900 miles in the car. 
However given it was clear faults remained after the repair, I believe Motonovo should 
refund the monthly instalments from September 2020 which is the date of the first inspection 
report and when it appears Mr P stopped using the car. I can understand why he lost faith in 
the car and stopped using it given what had happened and I believe it was reasonable for 
him to do so. I note by the time of the second inspection around four months after the first 
inspection, it had only travelled a further five miles. 
Mr P arranged and paid for a second inspection report. This report outlined why the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and Ive relied on it when reaching this decision so I think its 
fair Motonovo covers the cost of this report, subject to Mr P providing evidence of payment.
I must bear in mind that when entering into the agreement, Mr P settled a previous car 
finance agreement with a balance of £14,650. He part exchanged at £9,632 leaving a 
negative equity of £5,018. That was reduced by the £1,000 cash deposit and the further loan 
of £2,027, meaning the overall negative equity was £1,991. MotoNovo should refund the 
cash deposit. Any refunds should be offset against the negative equity. If upon calculating 
the above this leaves a balance owed by Mr P then I believe its fair he pays this. In the 
event hes experiencing financial difficulty, I wish to remind Motonovo of the expectation he 
is treated with due consideration and forbearance.   
Im sorry to hear the car didnt perform as expected and Mr P experienced so many faults 
with the car. I dont think a reasonable person would expect this so soon after acquiring it. I 
appreciate the impact this has had on him including returning the car to the dealership on 
more than one occasion, arranging his own inspections, etc. In light of this, I believe 
Motonovo should also pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Response to the provisional decisionBoth parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. MotoNovo provided no 
further comments. Mr P accepted the findings and stated he had already handed the car 
back to MotoNovo.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
To put things right, MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr P to pay;
- Treat the return of the car as a rejection; 
- Refund the cash deposit*;
- Refund the monthly instalments from September 2020 onwards*;
- Refund the cost of the independent inspection (January 2021) as arranged by Mr P 
(subject to proof)*;
- Offset the above refunds from any negative equity brought into the agreement;
- Pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file in relation to this
agreement
*MotoNovo Finance Limited should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above 
refunds calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If MotoNovo Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman