DRN-3395531
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC told them their package bank account would 
be free as long as they remained in credit, but that it has now said it will charge a monthly 
fee anyway. 
What happened
Mr G says that, about 25 years ago, he moved his account from Lloyds to a rival bank. But 
he was then persuaded by a Lloyds bank manager to reopen his Lloyds account, on the 
basis that he would take a Gold account. He says the free travel insurance was a main 
attraction. 
From the information I have, I can see that before 1996 the Gold account wasnt a true 
packaged bank account  instead it offered just banking benefits in return for a fee. From 
1996 Lloyds began to add insurance and other benefits. It charged a fee for this  in 1996 it 
was £8 each month. But it also waived this fee if the balance was over a certain amount 
each month. 
The Gold account currently still offers a package of benefits including worldwide travel 
insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and a limited interest-free 
overdraft. 
Mr G says that, around 4 years ago, Lloyds started writing to tell him theyd have to start 
paying fees for his account  £14.95 per month. He says that, each time this happened, he 
contacted someone in the bank, and they agreed he was exempt from the charges. He has 
sent us a copy of a letter from Lloyds in September 2020 which says:
I am sorry you received this letter [saying Mr G would have to pay charges] as you 
are exempt from these charges. As long as your account remains in credit, you will 
not be charged the account fee as you have a historical waiver in place.
But, a few months later, Lloyds again wrote to Mrs and Mr G and said theyd have to start 
paying a monthly fee. Mr G complained again, but this time Lloyds said it wouldnt change its 
mind. It said the cost of the insurance benefits was increasing, and they had to charge a fee 
for this. 
Lloyds also said that their complaint response in September 2020 was correct at the time, 
but they couldnt continue with the fee waiver. It added:
Were not obliged to cover any of the monthly maintaining the account fees, 
however, based on my review of the previous complaint its reasonable that we 
provide you with a one off payment of £179.40 to cover twelve months of fees.
One of our adjudicators looked at the case and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs and Mr G didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont have a copy of the official terms and conditions that applied when Mr G says the 
account started 25 years ago. But I think it highly likely that Lloyds would, when agreeing 
to open the account, have said that it reserved the right to change the features and costs 
of the account, or to close it down. This has been a standard feature of banking terms and 
conditions for a very long time. 
And I can see that this is reflected in the earliest documents I have available to me for the 
Gold account. A sales leaflet for the account from February 1990 says, The Bank may 
also at any time refuse to open or continue an account or refuse any deposit. And a 
booklet about the Gold account from July 1997 says:
Lloyds Bank may vary the service and facilities offered in its Gold Service Current 
Account on giving notice to you, if and when it is necessary or appropriate to do 
so to reflect alterations in the scope and nature of the service which we are able 
to provide to customers in accordance with our systems capabilities and routines 
and having regard to market practice and overall customer demand.
So Im satisfied that Lloyds has the contractual right to vary the terms of the account in the 
way it has, and I dont see any regulatory restriction on the way it has done this. 
I appreciate what Mr G says he was told when opening the account, and what he has 
taken from the letter of September 2020. But I dont see that Lloyds has bound itself into 
permanently making the offer of a fee waiver  anything Mr G was told would have to be 
understood within the context of the wider terms and conditions. Whatever Lloyds said, it 
retained the right to change the terms of the account in future. 
It may be that Mrs and Mr G were misled by Lloyds, about what they could expect. But I 
dont think they have been treated unfairly by the change itself.  So far, theyve had the 
benefit of insurance products without having to pay for them (apart from making sure they 
kept a high-enough balance to ensure the fee waiver). And in future they can still avoid 
paying for the insurance benefits, by switching to a fee-free account. 
I can though fully understand how frustrating it must have been, to have to repeatedly deal 
with the letters about fees; and the annoyance at having a long-term benefit taken away. I 
think Lloyds payment, to cover the future years fees, is fair recompense  given that it is 
entitled to make the change on the date announced. 
Mrs and Mr G say they will lose out in particular over the travel insurance. They say this 
was the main attraction of the account when they started the account. They say that, 
because they are now beyond retirement age:
it is clear that starting afresh with a new insurer is going to cost us dearly. If we 
had used another insurer for the last 25 years we would have built up a strong 
record, and no doubt, would be charged less than a first time purchaserIt is true that, if they stop using the Gold account, they are likely to have to pay higher 
premiums for travel insurance, compared to what they would have paid when they were 25 
years younger. But I dont believe they would have accumulated a significant discount if they 
had stayed with a different insurer. Im not aware that travel insurance typically gives no 
claims discounts, and suchlike, unlike car and house insurances. But, even if it did, this 
would still have to be set off against the substantial savings Mrs and Mr G have made by 
having the Gold account all these years. 
I cant say the decision to end the waiver is so unfair that it ought to override Lloyds right to 
change the terms of the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman