DRN-4083140
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains about a lack of progress by Tesco Underwriting Limited, 
regarding a household contents insurance claim for stolen items. 
Although the policy was held solely by the late Mrs B, it was also the home address of Mrs 
Bs son, Mr B. The complaint is brought by the professional representative of the estate. Mr 
B is a third party to the complaint and the owner of the items claimed for. So for ease of 
understanding, I shall refer to Mr B throughout. Mr B would like Tesco to progress the claim.
What happened
In May 2016, Mrs Bs home was burgled. A claim was subsequently made under her home 
insurance policy. Mr B was not, at the time, in a position to progress matters and 
substantiate the claim. It was hoped hed be able to do so in the not-too-distant future. 
To date, Mr Bs circumstances remain unchanged and hes hampered in his ability to make 
out the claim. He wrote to Tesco asking about progress, but in September 2021, Mr B 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, saying Tesco was not responding to his 
letters. The matter was referred to Tesco for investigation. In October 2021, Tesco issued a 
final response letter. It acknowledged the lack of response and apologised for the poor 
service. It reiterated that the claim can be fully assessed when Mr B is able to advance 
matters.
Mr B asked this service to look into things for him. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Under our rules, Mr B is not the eligible complainant, so our investigator couldnt 
consider whether any compensation for distress and inconvenience was appropriate. This is 
because we can only award such compensation to an eligible complainant themselves. And 
our investigator thought that Tescos position  that it cannot move the claim forward without 
evidence from Mr B to substantiate the losses  was reasonable.
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
Im aware of a previous complaint relating to this claim, which was also referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. That matter was closed in 2017. Ive seen documents 
relating to that complaint, so have knowledge of the history. But my decision relates solely to 
the complaint raised in 2021.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will not be the answer Mr 
B was hoping for. Ill explain my decision.
Mr B wants Tesco to progress his claim. The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
However, the burden of proof lies with the claimant  in this case, Mr B  to show theyve 
suffered losses covered under the policy. So its reasonable for Tesco to ask for supporting 
evidence to substantiate the claim. The policy conditions require full co-operation from the 
claimant and say that Tesco may require proof of ownership and/or proof of loss (e.g. 
receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards). 
I think its reasonable for Tesco to request evidence to support proof of ownership, 
particularly as Mr B has told us the items claimed for are some jewellery and a watch, likely 
higher value items and all classed as valuables under the policy. Mr B wanted Tesco to allow 
a neighbour and/or solicitor to search for items believed stolen and liaise with Tesco 
regarding the losses. Whilst both the neighbour and Mr Bs solicitor have supported the 
claim on his behalf, Tescos position was that neither could corroborate proof of ownership 
or loss.
I appreciate Mr Bs in a difficult position. Hes not presently able to access information that 
might help him make out his claim. That presents something of a bind. Mr B has provided an 
inventory of items removed from the house to storage by a removal company. But this only 
details what was present at the time the house was cleared. Self-evidently, it cannot confirm 
what wasnt present. But the absence of the item on the inventory, along with supporting 
evidence may help to progress the claim. 
Mr B has indicated he may have difficulty providing proof of ownership for his watch and 
some of the jewellery. Hes given our investigator names of people who may be able to 
provide statements or a photo supporting his ownership. But I must stress, its for him to 
provide such evidence to Tesco, or arrange for someone to do so on his behalf. It is not the 
role of our investigator to gather evidence for Mr B to support his claim.
So overall, I think Tesco has acted fairly in keeping the claim open and telling Mr B it can be 
fully assessed once hes provided all the information he wants to. 
Finally, I understand Mr Bs primary concern is the progression of the claim. But for 
completeness, I should say that Im not able to consider whether Tescos poor service might 
have warranted any compensation for distress and inconvenience. As our investigator has 
explained, under our rules, Mr B is an interested third party, but not the eligible complainant 
in this complaint. And we can only award compensation to eligible complainants.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman