DRN-4512007
The complaint
Mr J complains that Phil Hughes Financial Services Ltd provided him with incorrect advice 
about porting his mortgage product that meant the product is no longer available to him.
What happened
Mr J had a flexi offset tracker mortgage with a lender I shall call Lender A at an interest rate 
of 0.49% above Bank of England base rate. Mr J used Phil Hughes Financial Services Ltd as 
his broker. In 2019 Mr J moved house and got an additional borrowing of £14,000.00 taking 
his total borrowing to £149,000.00. His intention was to do it up and sell it. In 2021, after it 
was done up and on the market, Mr J says his father emailed the broker to ask about the 
time limit for porting this mortgage product to a new property and was told he had 90 days. 
But Mr Js buyers had problems selling their own property. In June 2022, Mr J offered on a 
property he wanted to buy but his buyers pulled out of his sale. Mr J with the help of family 
bought the house he offered on for £200,000.00 and put his existing house on the market 
again. The broker told Mr J that he couldnt port the mortgage to the new property he now 
owned.
Mr J sold his existing property on 30 September 2022, found a new home and was going 
through the motions as he understood he had 90 days to port his mortgage product, but the 
broker then told him that he had been told by the lender that the porting should have been 
simultaneous, and he had lost the mortgage product when he sold his property.
The broker agrees that it had misunderstood the product as it believed that the product was 
a normal tracker rate product without an ERC and that Mr J had 90 days to finalise the 
purchase of a new property and port the mortgage product. It says that its misunderstanding 
was identified after Mr J sold his property and the broker asked the lender about extending 
the three-month period. The broker was told that in order to retain the product, the sale and 
completion had to be simultaneous. But it says that this error wasnt responsible for Mr J 
being unable to port the mortgage product.
Our investigators view 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld saying that on 10 
June 2022 the broker made it clear to Mr J that he needed to make a new application before 
his sale completed and Mr J didnt do that, and our investigator felt that there was no 
guarantee that Mr J would have been able to obtain a new mortgage to allow him to comply 
with the terms and conditions of porting the product to a new property. Mr J disagreed and 
asked for a review.
My Provisional Findings
As my view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator I issued a Provision 
Decision. In that decision I said 
There is no doubt that the broker supplied incorrect information to Mr J about the timing of 
when Mr J could sell his old property and buy his new property and still port his mortgage. 
The broker says he misunderstood what type of mortgage it was and conveyed incorrect 
information to Mr J. Because of that I intend to uphold this complaint. But for the reasons set 
out below I dont consider that this incorrect information was the cause of Mr J losing his 
mortgage product.
The broker when asked about the timing of the porting gave Mr J incorrect information 
consistently saying that the completion of the purchase of the new property could take place 
up to three months after the sale had taken place. But the timing was only one aspect of the 
process. As the broker told Mr J by email on 10 June 2022 the application would have to be 
submitted for a new property prior to the completion of H (the old property). You then have to 
complete the purchase within three months, or the product will no longer be available. So, 
according to the broker, Mr J would be able to port the mortgage product if he applied for a 
mortgage on a new property before he completed the sale of his old property. Thats fairly 
standard on most porting applications although lenders have different requirements as to the 
timing of the completions. In general, its expected that the customer before selling will have 
applied for a new mortgage on which to port the product. That means that the customer will 
have agreed to buy a property. The timing of completions may differ between mortgage 
products. In this case because of the type of mortgage, the lender required the timing of the 
completion of the sale and purchase to be simultaneous.,
So, to port, Mr J would have to source a new property before he sold his existing property 
and apply for a mortgage on the new property. If he did that and applied to port his 
mortgage, its likely that the timing issue would have been identified by the lender as it was a 
requirement of the lender that instead of allowing a later completion of the purchase it 
required the sale and purchase to be simultaneous. If Mr J wanted to retain his mortgage 
product and sell the property, he would of course have to comply with the lenders 
requirements. That might mean adjusting the sale and purchase to comply, or Mr J 
withdrawing from the sale to comply. I see in his email to us of 10 August 2023 Mr J says 
that he could easily have delayed the sale so, presumably, the sale and purchase could 
have been done simultaneously after some adjustment.  
But Mr J deprived himself of the opportunity to port his mortgage product by failing to apply 
for a new mortgage on a new property before he sold his existing property. My reading of the 
file is that Mr J believed, and he was wrong to do so, that he could apply for the new 
mortgage after the sale of the existing property. I think thats a fair assumption as in his 
detailed complaint submission Mr J never refers to the requirement to have a mortgage 
application submitted before he sells his property. That misunderstanding led to his actions 
depriving himself of the mortgage product, but that misunderstanding wasnt the result of any 
misinformation he got from the broker. 
As I say above the email of 10 June from the broker to Mr Js father - who is representing 
him in this complaint - tells him that he has to apply for a new mortgage before he completes 
the sale of his old property. I also see that on 10 June the broker sent a further email with 
the lenders key criteria for porting. Theres a note at the bottom from the broker saying, if H 
(the old property) completes before a new application is submitted the mortgage will be 
redeemed and the account closed so no products would be transferable to a new 
application But despite these two warning Mr J went ahead and sold his exiting property 
before a new application was submitted. 
Mr Js father says that after 10 June he asked the broker to go ahead with the application 
and questioned whether if the application started but the sale broke down would the lender 
carry on running down the 90-day time frame or would the process start again whilst new 
buyers were found. He says that the broker couldnt answer that question, but it was agreed 
that they let the sale of H complete and stay within the 90-day time frame. I note that this is solely Mr Js fathers recollection of the conversation as the broker says he cant recall the 
conversation and would have been able to answer the question about the process starting 
again. But even accepting that, its not claimed that the broker said that the sale could take 
place without an application being made on a new property before the sale, or that for some 
reason, he now no longer stood by his repeated advice of 10 June. 
There does seem to have been a reference to beginning a mortgage application after 10 
June which the broker says stopped when on 31 July Mr Js father told him that they didnt 
want to proceed at that stage until they were confident that the sale was progressing as it 
had fallen through on four previous occasions. In any case the file suggests that a mortgage 
might have been difficult to source at this particular time for Mr J given his employment 
situation. The broker says it received no further communication about any possible mortgage 
application or indeed about the sale between 31 July and 30 September and Ive seen no 
evidence that there was any further engagement between Mr J and the broker. So, on 30 
September Mr J sold his property without applying for a new mortgage on a new property 
and he lost his mortgage product. As that wasnt the fault of the broker, I dont consider that 
it was responsible for any financial loss that Mr J suffered as a result.
But the broker was wrong about the timing of the porting and consistently wrong until it 
contacted the lender in October. Mr J and his family had several transactions over the years 
with the broker and trusted its advice. It would have been very disappointing to find out that 
they were given wrong information on several occasions both before and after the property 
was sold. All this could have been avoided if the broker had researched the product before 
advising on it which I would have expected it to do. This would have caused Mr J an amount 
of distress and inconvenience and I have to measure the impact of that on Mr J. Mr Js main 
concern has been the loss of the mortgage product but Im not compensating him for that. 
Looking at our guidance on this I believe that an award of £300 is fair. So, my intention is to 
uphold this complaint and award Mr J compensation of £300.
I issued my Provisional Decision and invited submissions from Mr J and from the broker. 
Both parties responded and I refer to their submissions below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has made further submissions to me in support of his complaint. The submissions are 
partly related to the circumstances of the complaint and partly to the amount of 
compensation he believes to be due. Mr J emphasises the closeness of the relationship with 
the broker and his reliance on the brokers advice and says that had he been told that he 
would lose his mortgage product if a new mortgage application wasnt in place on another 
property at the time he sold his existing property he would have waited until the new property 
was ready to accept and then port his mortgage product simultaneously. Mr J also asks me 
to consider higher compensation as the broker wouldnt act for them anymore and when they 
bought the new property they had to pay £1,999 as an arrangement fee and £795 as a 
broker fee. 
The broker disagrees with my Provisional Decision. He says that the complaint is about the 
advice received leading to Mr J losing his mortgage product. As I say that it didnt result in 
that, the broker feels that the claim is invalid and if the complaint was that he suffered 
distress and inconvenience as a result of the advice the broker would have offered an ex-
gratia payment similar to what Ive decided. The broker doesnt feel that this can properly be 
called compensation.In the light of these further submissions, Ive reviewed this complaint, but I remain of the 
view that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. This complaint 
is about the advice given by the broker. Ive said that the advice about the timing of when Mr 
Js mortgage product could port was incorrect. The broker accepts it was wrong. That is 
what Mr Js complaint was about and in my view the broker should have upheld it as I have. 
The next question that the broker should have considered and that I have to consider is what 
compensation is appropriate for this wrong advice. For the reasons set out above I dont 
accept that the wrong advice about the timing caused Mr J financial loss. The broker made 
clear that Mr J would have to have another mortgage application in place before he sold the 
existing property and Mr J didnt have that and went ahead regardless of the advice.  Thats 
not the brokers fault. So, I dont accept that the broker caused financial loss but that doesnt 
mean that Im prevented from awarding compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the brokers incorrect advice. I believe that the compensation Ive suggested, for 
the reasons set out above, is fair. Mr J in his recent correspondence points out that he had 
to pay an arrangement fee and a brokers fee when buying a new property. I assume that 
follows from the loss of his mortgage product that he had previously. But as I say above I 
dont hold the broker responsible for the loss of that product and I cant fairly require the 
broker to pay these fees which are a consequence of the loss of that product.
I thank Mr J and the broker for their further submissions but Im content that my Provisional 
Decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. So, Im upholding this complaint and 
require the broker to pay Mr J £300.
Putting things right
Phil Hughes Financial Services Ltd should pay Mr J £300
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Phil Hughes Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr J £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman