DRN-2188167
The complaint
Mr S complains about the administration of his pension policy by Phoenix Life Ltd. He 
complains that Phoenix have failed to provide him with regular updates concerning his 
pension, switched his pension investments to a poorly performing fund without his 
knowledge or agreement, and charged him fees without providing a service. He wants the 
fees refunded with interest and compensation of the amount that wouldve accrued in an 
average pension plan. 
What happened
In the 1980s Mr S became a member of a pension plan provided by his employer, a limited 
company. Around 1990 his employer went into liquidation and trustees were appointed to 
deal with the pension scheme. 
In November 2001 the trustees wrote to Mr S to indicate that, not having heard from him with 
a definite decision concerning his benefits in the pension scheme, it would take steps to buy 
out the benefits using a Provider C policy and wind the scheme up. The trustees added that 
the assets would be invested in a fund (the C Fund) that guarantees the fund wont decrease 
in value and will also could participate in equity growth.
Shortly afterwards the share of the scheme assets allocated to Mr C were transferred to the 
Provider C policy. Around 2006 Phoenix Life Ltd took over Provider Cs liabilities and 
Provider C pension policies were transferred to it. 
 `
In August 2019 Mr S complained to our service. He referred to the 2001 trustee letter and 
said that some years later he realised he hadnt had any updates or anything from the 
trustees so tried to find out what had happened to his pension. He said that in 2011 Phoenix 
had changed the fund his pension was invested in without his agreement. Phoenix had told 
him they didnt have to keep him up to date. Mr S said that had it done so at the time (of the 
fund change) he wouldve switched. He said Phoenix had levied a management charge of 
1%, surely that was for a service, including looking after his pension for his benefit, advising 
him of performance and giving him the opportunity to change if he wished. Mr S said he 
wanted a refund of the fees plus interest, and compensation of the amount that wouldve 
accrued in an average pension plan. 
As we hadnt been provided with a final response from Phoenix to the complaint, our 
investigator asked for one. We usually only get involved after a business has either provided 
a response to a complaint or has failed to respond within 8 weeks. 
Phoenix at first said our service didnt have the power to consider Mr Ss complaint, as Mr S 
had complained in 2015 and 2017 about the same issues, and it was now too late for him to 
bring his complaint to our service. Our investigator said we did have the power, as Phoenix 
hadnt provided referral rights to our service in its earlier complaint letters, as it was required 
to do. Phoenix accepted this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Phoenix was required to send Mr 
S annual statements, although he did think it was good practice to do so. He thought Mr Ss 
main issue was the lack of growth over time, and Phoenix werent responsible for investment 
performance. 
Mr S sent a detailed response to our investigators view. In conclusion, the response 
indicated that if Mr S had known how his fund was performing, and if Phoenix had made 
more than one attempt at contact in 2011 (when Phoenix changed the fund Mr Ss pension 
was invested in) Mr S wouldve made the decision to move the fund in 2011 at the latest. 
Our investigator said that Mr S had been in contact with Phoenix and had been given details 
about his plan several times, including in mid-2012, 2014, and 2015. And this didnt include 
times when information was sent to Mr Ss advisers. But Mr S didnt ask for the fund to be 
switched until 2016. So our adviser didnt agree that Mr S wouldve made a decision in 2011 
at the latest if hed known how his fund was performing. 
Mr S still didnt agree. So the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr S, but having done so, Im not going to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why shortly. But before I do so it may be helpful if I say that I recognise 
Mr Ss strength of feeling  he believes hes lost out on the value of his pension because of 
Phoenixs actions and inactions. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. But my findings concentrate on what I consider to be the 
central issues. And I havent responded to every single point raised. That is because I dont 
need to in order to reach an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case. I mean no discourtesy by this approach. 
The essence of Mr Ss complaint is that he hasnt been given adequate information about his 
pension plan, and if he had he wouldve acted to change how it was invested, and his 
pension pot wouldve increased in value. He complains about the change to the fund his 
pension was invested in in 2011. He also wants a refund of the annual management fee, 
because he says hes received no service. 
Mr S provided detailed submissions to us after our investigator gave his view. The 
submissions allege that Phoenix had disclosure obligations to Mr S under the law, and that if 
these had been met Mr S wouldve moved his investment to ensure consistent growth. The 
submissions conclude by indicating that if Mr S had known how his fund was performing, 
and had Phoenix made more than one attempt at contact in 2011 (when the fund was 
switched) he wouldve decided to switch the fund in 2011 at the latest. 
Im afraid I cant agree. Like our investigator, I think Mr S and/or his advisers were provided 
with information on multiple occasions from 2011 onwards concerning his fund value and 
how it was invested, yet Mr S didnt switch his investment choice until early 2016. 
To briefly summarise, Mr Ss pension pot remained invested in the same fund from around 
late 2001 to late 2011. This was the fund Mr S was informed of in the 2001 letter from the 
trustees of his employer pension plan. In late 2011 Mr Ss pension pot was switched into a 
different investment, due to the closure of the fund he was previously invested in. In early 
2016, Mr S switched the fund his pension was invested in but stayed with Phoenix. 
Ive looked very carefully at all the information in the file. I can see that in October 2011 Mr S 
was given a transfer value for his pension of around £11,180. On the same day he was sent that information, Phoenix also wrote to a financial adviser who had provided a letter of 
authority from Mr S. Among other things, it told the adviser that:
The policy had been established with a single premium of around £8,819 which was 
the paid-up value of Mr Ss employer pension plan after a payment was made to 
HMRC to contract back in to the second state pension. 
It was invested in Fund C (ombudsman comment: the same fund that the trustees 
informed Mr S that it would be invested in its 2001 letter).
The charges were 1% on accumulation with a 0.24% rebate back to the fund.
In late 2011 Phoenix switched the fund Mr S was invested in, to a fund Ill call Fund G, due 
to the closure of Fund C. It says it wrote to Mr C about this, offering him the chance to switch 
to two other funds it offered. It said that he didnt need to take any action if he was happy 
with the switch. Mr S says he didnt receive this letter, and Ive no reason to doubt him. But 
equally, Ive no reason to doubt Phoenix when it says it sent the letter, although it has only 
been able to provide me with a template copy of it, given the passage of time. 
Mr S says that more than one attempt shouldve been made to contact him before reverting 
to the default (investment) option. Phoenix appears to have had no choice but to change the 
investment, since Fund C was closing. So it wasnt an option to take no action before 
hearing from Mr S. And Im not persuaded that the choice of a fund such as Fund G that 
aimed to preserve capital was unreasonable. I say this because aiming to preserve capital 
was prudent given the absence of instruction and the fact that Mr S was nearly 60 years old 
at the time, so potentially very close to retirement and taking his benefits. 
Im not convinced that writing to Mr S again wouldve made a difference. This is because I 
think the evidence shows that he knew, or shouldve known, fairly shortly after the switch in 
investment to Fund G, that his pension pot investment had changed. I say this because in 
July 2012, after a telephone call from Mr S, Phoenix wrote to Mr S and informed him of the 
fund his pension pot was invested in. This fund, Fund G, was different to that notified to his 
financial adviser in October 2011. So I think Mr S and his adviser were given information that 
showed where his pension was invested, and that wouldve enabled him to establish that 
there had been a change. 
I can also see that in April 2013 a financial adviser was informed, on Mr Ss behalf, what 
fund Mr S was invested in, and what his other investment choices were, as well as being 
given the value of the fund, among other things. The adviser was also explicitly informed that 
Mr Ss investment had been switched in December 2011 on the closure of Fund C. 
There was further correspondence between Mr S and Phoenix over the next years, yet Mr S 
didnt switch his investment until early 2016. Taking all of this into account, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S wouldve switched his pension investment in 2011 if hed been given 
information such as annual statements and projections which he says he was entitled to by 
law. Because of this, Im not going to consider whether he was entitled to such information, 
as I dont need to in order to reach my decision. 
Mr S wants me to tell Phoenix to pay him compensation for the difference in value of the 
pension and its estimated value had Phoenix corresponded with Mr S such that he couldve 
moved the fund sooner. It follows from what Ive said above that Im not going to tell Phoenix 
to do this because I think Mr S was provided with information and didnt switch until 2016, 
although I appreciate this will disappoint Mr S. 
Mr S also wants a refund of the fees hes paid from his pension pot as he says he wasnt 
informed of the fees until around 2015. Im not going to tell Phoenix to do that. Again, it 
follows from what Ive said above that Mr S was aware of the fees earlier than when his 
submissions suggest. Mr Ss pension pot from his employer scheme was transferred into the policy in 2001. I dont know what Mr S was informed of concerning the fees for the policy, 
which isnt surprising given the passage of time. But I would expect an annual management 
fee to be charged so I dont think Phoenix is acting unreasonably in doing so. Mr S also says 
that the management fee was for services he hasnt received, so should be refunded. 
Speaking generally, a management fee isnt an advisory fee for investment or other services 
to an individual, but is for administration of the pension policy, including contributing to 
business overheads. So I dont think its unreasonable and I wont be telling Phoenix to 
refund the charge. 
In conclusion, Im not going to tell Phoenix to do anything for the reasons I give above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman