DRN-2349907
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) will not replace a broken 
Inspection Chamber cap under the terms of her HomeCare Four policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ms representative, Mr M, contacted BG because the Inspection Chamber (IC) cap on 
Mrs Ms drainpipe was broken and was causing a smell to enter Mrs Ms property. BG said 
that the cap was not covered under the terms of Mrs Ms policy. Mr M complained about this 
to BG.
BG issued its final response and didnt uphold the complaint. BG said that Mrs Ms policy 
only covers repairing and unblocking drains to restore flow and as Mrs Ms drains werent 
blocked, the issue was a household maintenance one. The final response also said that 
page 13 of Mrs Ms terms and conditions sets out that manhole covers and manholes arent 
covered by her policy. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response. Mr M told BG that he felt the IC cap will cause future 
blockages and the broken IC cap wasnt a maintenance issue.
Mr M brought the complaint to us. He told us that the broken IC cap is essentially causing 
drainage issues, including blockages which he felt should be covered under the policy.  Our 
investigator asked Mr M to provide further information on claims made concerning blockages 
caused by the broken cap. Mr M didnt provide any further information, but instead said BG 
had come out a few times for blockages and that BG would have the details.
BG told us the IC cap forms part of the manhole and cover and is therefore not covered 
under the policy. BG provided further information on the claim saying It is a rodding eye cap 
normally fitted to the top of a trap/interceptor/Windsor trap in an inspection chamber and is 
not covered under the Ts & Cs as it does not effect the service of a drain.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that the terms and conditions of the 
policy didnt cover manholes and their covers. Nor did it cover faults that are purely cosmetic 
that dont stop the drain from working. And based on what hed seen, he felt the cap wasnt 
causing a loss of drain function. Our investigator said he cant comment on what may 
happen in the future, but that if the drainage blocks, Mr or Mrs M should contact BG.
Mr M was unhappy with this response. He said the IC cap doesnt fall within the definition of 
a manhole cover and it isnt clear in the policy definition what a manhole cover is. He still 
believed the replacement of the cap should be covered. Our investigator didnt change his 
view. Mr M asked that the complaint be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint made. I appreciate this is not the outcome Mrs M 
and Mr M were hoping for, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
On page 12 of Mrs Ms HomeCare Range Terms and Conditions booklet in the Drains 
section under the Whats covered sub-heading it says Repairing and unblocking drains to 
restore flow and A replacement of parts that we cant repair. And defines 
repair(s)/repairing/repaired on page 5 of the terms and conditions as:
to fix yoursystem following an individual fault or breakdown but not repairs that are purely 
cosmeticwhich doesnt stop the main function of yoursystem from working or make it 
unsafe.
And under the General Exclusions heading on page 31 of the terms and conditions it says:
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system
when it stops working properly.
So I am satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy are clear that cover is only 
provided when Mrs Ms drains stop functioning or are unsafe.
But Mr M hasnt provided evidence on Mrs Ms behalf to demonstrate that the broken cap is 
either causing the drain to stop working or making Mrs Ms drains unsafe. So I think, on 
balance, Mrs Ms drains are working and arent unsafe. And so - because of the above policy 
terms - I dont think BG has done anything wrong by not replacing Mrs Ms broken IC cap 
under the terms of her policy. 
Mr M says that the broken cap may cause blockages to Mrs Ms drains in the future.  Mrs 
Ms policy terms and conditions are clear that cover is only provided if a drain stops 
functioning and so does not provide cover for issues that may cause blockages to her drains 
in the future. So I dont think, under the terms of Mrs Ms policy, BG need to replace the 
broken IC cap.
So because Ive not seen any evidence that the broken cap is preventing Mrs Ms drains 
from functioning, I dont think it would be fair to require BG to replace Mrs Ms broken IC cap. 
So I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman