DRN-2427334
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. Information provided by 
Capital One shows that PPI was added to Mr Ls credit card account when he applied for the 
card over the internet. The policy protected Mr Ls card monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr L disagreed. Hes asked for an ombudsman 
look at the complaint again and make a final decision. 
Mr L is mainly concerned that the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent  he 
disputes that he ticked for it when he applied for his credit card and how Capital One says he 
did this. Mr L also told us he had substantial savings at the time - so PPI isnt something he 
needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Im sorry Mr L feels that our adjudicators havent answered all his questions or taken 
properly into account everything hes told us he remembers about the sale. Id like to 
reassure Mr L that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as the adjudicators who looked at his complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L told us hes struggled to remember all the details about what happened at the time and 
thats completely understandable. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr L to remember 
everything he did when he took out the policy as this was so long ago. 
This means that what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Despite what Mr L says, it does look like he took out this credit card with PPI over the 
internet. I say this because Capital One has sent me details of his online application 
recording the answers he supplied to on-screen questions at the time. 
When Mr L applied for his card he wouldve had to tick a box to say he wanted PPI in order 
to have it added on to his card account. PPI wouldnt have been added on if he didnt tick to 
say he wanted to have it  his card wouldve been issued to him without PPI. This was 
Capital Ones normal online sales process and I've seen nothing to make me this this isnt 
what wouldve happened when Mr L applied for his credit card.
The information recorded from Mr Ls application shows that he ticked to have PPI added on.
Also, it looks like the PPI appeared on Mr Ls credit card statements  including the first 
statement that Capital One sent him when he started using his credit card. Mr L has 
mentioned that he thought this was a monthly charge he had to pay  he told us that he 
didnt realise it was for PPI. But he couldve questioned this charge at any time with Capital 
One if it had been put on his account without his consent. 
Looked at overall, I think its likely that the PPI was added to Mr Ls account when he chose 
to have it, knowing it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI  although I can understand if he 
cant remember this now after such a long time.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L. This means it didnt need to make sure it was 
suitable for him. But Capital One still had to give Mr L enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself whether or not he wanted it. 
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it shouldve been. So Ive thought 
carefully about whether Mr L mightve made a different decision about taking out PPI if he 
was given clearer information. I still think he wouldve bought the PPI. Heres why I say this. 
Mr L was eligible for the policy. Based on the information he provided when making his 
application this shows that he was employed when he applied for this PPI. 
Although hes also given us some different information about his work situation, theres 
further information recorded about his job role at the time  which Mr L has confirmed was a 
job he did for a few months around this time. So, although there were some things the policy 
didnt cover, it looks like his particular circumstances when he signed up for PPI meant that 
he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions that mightve made it harder 
to make a successful claim. 
So I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him 
off taking it out.
Mr L says he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer for 6 months if he was off 
work sick.
So I think this policy couldve been useful to him as it wouldve paid out for longer - up to 
12 months if he had an accident or he was too ill to work. 
And it wouldve also more than covered his card monthly repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
If hed claimed successfully for the full 12 months the policy couldve paid out this wouldve 
cleared the card balance outstanding at the start of the claim. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr L told us he had substantial savings at the time. But it 
was up to Mr L to decide for himself if he wanted to take out this PPI knowing what his 
financial situation was at the time. Capital One didnt recommend the policy to him and so it 
wasnt under any obligation to ask him about what other ways he might have to pay for his 
credit card if he couldnt work. Mr L told us his savings were mainly intended to fund his 
business plans. So I can see why he mightve wanted to take out insurance that guaranteed  his credit card monthly repayments without the need for him to use savings he had other 
plans for.
And given what Mr L told us about his savings, I dont know if he wouldve always had 
savings to fall back on if he needed to claim on the policy.  
Based on everything hes told us, I think Mr L couldve benefitted from the PPI.   
I dont think the PPI cost was made clear to Mr L when he bought the policy. But, from what 
Ive seen, Mr L hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And he 
chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to, so it seems Mr L wanted this type of 
cover at the time. As Mr L paid for the policy each month, he was free to cancel it without 
incurring any extra cost whenever he wanted  as he later did in 2019. 
Looked at overall, I think Mr L still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
informed. The policy gave him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything that Mr L has said in response to 
the adjudicators views. Mr L told us that he wouldve claimed on the policy if hed known he 
could when he was out of work. But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold 
when he took it out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
Mr L may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider 
a back-dated claim.
Although Mr L mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint I can see 
that our adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Theres nothing more I can 
usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. 
So in my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman