DRN-3777440
The complaint
Ms U complains through her representative Mr U, about the service she received from St 
Jamess Place UK Plc when she tried to withdraw funds from an investment bond she held 
with them. For ease of reading I will only refer to Ms U.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Ms U and her sister Ms U1 jointly hold an investment bond with SJP.
Ms U was in the process of purchasing a property and instructed SJP to withdraw 
funds from the investment bond and pay them to her account with Bank A.
She then amended the request and asked for the funds to be deposited in an 
account with another business (Bank B). This was because Bank A had limits on the 
amount that she could transfer out each day which meant that she wouldnt be able 
to have the sum she required for the purchase on time.
SJP didnt correctly process the request and deposited the funds in the Bank A 
account. Ms U then contacted SJP and explained that she stood to lose her deposit 
and incur significant additional costs. SJP agreed to make a payment to the Bank B 
account before the funds were returned from the Bank A account if Ms U signed a 
deed theyd drawn up.
Ms U didnt agree to signing the deed as she disagreed with some of the wording 
which, in summary, said that if she signed it then SJP would be resolved of any 
liability for their previous error. SJP issued a second deed that didnt contain the 
disputed wording which Ms U subsequently signed and the payment was made.
Ms U then complained to SJP about the service shed received, the time spent trying 
to resolve the issue, the stress that had been caused and the wording of the first 
deed.
SJP upheld the complaint and offered £850 in compensation in recognition of the 
issues shed experienced.
Ms U didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think that SJP needed to do 
anything else to resolve the complaint.
Ms U didnt agree with her findings and said, in summary:
The compensation that was offered was in recognition of SJPs error in paying the 
funds to the wrong account. However, SJP had made another error in attempting to 
persuade Ms U to sign a deed that wrongly indicated she was fault for the error and 
forfeited her right to compensation.
The compensation that had been offered didnt take into account the considerable 
stress and time taken to get SJP to issue a second deed. It was therefore only logical 
that further compensation was due.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms U has made many points to support her complaint, which I have read and considered in 
their entirety. I appreciate she has strong feelings about this matter. I hope she will not take 
it as a discourtesy that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. The 
purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
Where something has gone wrong, we look at the impact its had on a consumer and 
whether what the business has done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So, in this 
decision, Ive considered the impact of SJPs errors. 
Theres no dispute that SJP made an error in sending the funds to the Bank A account. They 
also apologised for the upset that had been caused by the wording of the first deed and 
explained that they were sorry that she felt it was written in a way that suggested she was at 
fault. They apologised for the standard of service shed received and offered compensation.
As theyve accepted their errors, my role is to determine if the compensation theyve offered 
is fair and reasonable. The main argument Ms U has made is that the £850 compensation 
offered is solely for the error SJP made in making the payment to the incorrect bank 
account. And they need to make a further payment to reflect the issues with the first deed 
that they sent her. 
Ive thought about the impact of SJPs errors on Ms U. Shes explained that due to the laws 
of the country where she was purchasing the property, there was the potential of losing her 
deposit, having to pay additional fees and also potentially have to rent a property to live in 
while she looked for another property to buy. There was also the stress and extra work 
caused by having to return the first deed that was sent by SJP. 
In deciding appropriate compensation, Ive taken several factors into account including the 
impact of the errors on Ms U, how SJP responded to their mistakes and the actual 
consequences of the mistakes. From what Ive seen SJP took steps to rectify the mistakes 
they made and ultimately ensured that Ms U had the funds available at the time they were 
needed for the purchase of the house. I appreciate there was the potential for the purchase 
to fall through and this would undoubtedly have caused Miss U a lot of concern. She was 
also concerned by the wording of the first deed but once it was highlighted to SJP they 
amended the wording and sent her a new deed within two days. 
Having considered everything, I think that SJP caused Ms U a substantial amount of distress 
which has unfairly impacted her. But I think that their offer of compensation falls within the 
substantial bracket for awards this service makes and is in line what I would have awarded, 
so I wont be asking them to increase it. I appreciate that Ms U thinks their offer is only 
sufficient for the initial error, but in my opinion it is fair and reasonable compensation for all the errors theyve made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U and Ms U to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman