DRN-2182696
The complaint
Mr G complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his rejected account application.
What happened
Mr G applied to HSBC online for a new bank account on 23 January 2020. He says he didnt 
receive an acknowledgement for the application and spoke to HSBC about his application. 
Mr G says HSBC told him it couldnt find details of the application and that he should call 
back to see if the application appears on its systems. He says that is not appropriate as 
HSBC had his personal information and it took too long to confirm it had his application. Mr 
G also says he was treated unfairly and had a good credit score and would like a full apology 
for what took place.
HSBC says it rejected Mr Gs application and told him that on 28 January 2020. It has 
apologised for the delay in processing Mr Gs application and says it considers information 
from a number of sources including a credit file when assessing an application.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought we couldnt ask HSBC to explain why it rejected Mr Gs application and that it had 
apologised for the delay. The investigator thought HSBC had kept information on its records 
about Mr Gs previous accounts from 2008 in line with its privacy notice.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says his complaint has not been understood. He says 
HSBC has breached data protection rules and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules, and 
would like an apology. He also says HSBC ought to have been able to locate his application 
details when he called, and it hasnt acted in line with the guidelines for such matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further. I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed 
by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place. I also 
appreciate that he feels his complaint points havent been looked into. And so, I make it clear 
that I have looked carefully at the complaint form he submitted to us, and I have listened to 
the telephone calls between us and him to make sure I understand exactly what his 
complaint is about.
I appreciate that the decision to reject the account application is not Mr Gs main complaint. 
But Im satisfied he told us that he has a good credit score and says HSBC wrongly treated 
me and that part of the complaint is about the decision to reject the application. I think its up 
to HSBC when exercising its commercial judgement to decide with whom it has a business 
relationship and so I dont think it acted unfairly or made a mistake by rejecting Mr Gs 
application. Im satisfied such matters are for a business to decide upon and not something I 
can fairly interfere in, just like it is of course up to Mr G to decide with whom he decides to 
bank with.
I can see that Mr G applied for the account on 23 January 2020 and would like to have 
received some form of confirmation that HSBC had received his application. I accept that Mr 
G was concerned about his personal data that he had included in the application. But Im 
satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for the delay in processing Mr Gs application and 
Im also satisfied that his personal data was not compromised. I also think its up to HSBC to 
decide if and how it responds to an account application and for how long it holds data about 
previous accounts.
I make clear to Mr G that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to tell HSBC 
how it deals with account applications and direct how long it ought to take in processing 
them. I also make clear to Mr G that its not our role to decide if HSBC has breached data 
protection rules and such complaints ought to be directed to the Information Commissioners 
Office.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for the delay in processing Mr Gs 
application and fairly explained why it couldnt find details of his application. But I dont think 
Mr G suffered any financial loss and that he was told in a matter of days that his application 
had been refused. I have explained why I cant interfere in HSBCs business decisions and 
in how it deals generally with these sorts of matters. I accept Mr G is unlikely to accept my 
decision, but I think this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this dispute informally 
can do to help him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman