DRN-2178529
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt with his request for a refund 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr O bought a new kitchen from a supplier who Ill refer to as U. The kitchen 
cost a total of £4,091.88. Mr O used his Tesco credit card to pay for the kitchen. But when 
the kitchen was delivered towards the end of the following month, each of the units had 
some kind of fault including scuffs, paint defects and excess glue residue. The kitchen 
remained unfitted and was left in Mr Os garage in its original packaging.
 
Mr O wasnt happy with the quality of the kitchen. He sent photos of the problems to U and 
asked for a full refund. But U refused. So Mr O asked Tesco for a refund under Section 75. 
This was at the end of October 2019. When Mr O didnt hear anything, he complained to 
Tesco. In January 2020 it responded saying his claim had been delayed due to external 
events increasing the banks workload. It paid £50 to Mr O for this.
 
Tesco also said it needed Mr O to provide a report to back up his claim that the kitchen 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. It noted he was able to provide photos of the problems with the 
kitchen units but repeated that a report was needed to continue with his claim for a refund.
 
When Mr O didnt provide this, Tesco closed his claim on 13 January 2020. But when Mr O 
then sent in a report to confirm the issues with the kitchen, Tesco did refund £4,091.88 to 
him. But Mr O wasnt happy with this. He said he wanted compensation for the cost of 
storing the kitchen units in his garage, and for the trouble this situation had caused him. 
Mr O also wanted interest on the £4,091.88.
 
Tesco agreed to pay the interest. But it didnt agree to pay anything else. Mr O wasnt happy 
with this and asked us to look into things further for him. One of our Investigators looked into 
this complaint. In short, he thought Tesco should pay Mr O a further £100 for the delays in its 
handling of the Section 75 claim.
 
Mr O accepted our investigators view. Tesco didnt. In summary, it said it wasnt the banks 
fault Mr O had to store the kitchen units in his garage and, when it received the report, it 
quickly settled his claim.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, I would point out my role in 
this complaint is to consider the way Tesco has handled the Section 75 claim. Im not looking 
at the actions of U and the service it provided. Nor am I making any award for Mr Os claim 
for storage costs. While the kitchen units were indeed stored in his garage for some time, 
there was no actual monetary cost to him.
 
In any event, theres no dispute the kitchen U provided to Mr O wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Tesco has already given him a refund for this plus interest. But the crux of this complaint is 
how the bank actually handled Mr Os Section 75 claim.
 
The available evidence shows Mr O first asked Tesco for a refund at the end of October 
2019. The bank told us there was then no meaningful contact with him until 8 January 2020 
 over 10 weeks later. I accept what Tesco says about external events causing unexpected 
delays in dealing with Mr Os claim. But that doesnt mean it treated him fairly or reasonably.
 
Ive thought about whether, in the circumstances of this complaint, it was really necessary to 
ask Mr O to provide a report to back up his claim. After all, the kitchen units were sitting in 
their original packaging in Mr Os garage  where theyd been since mid-September 2019. It 
seems very unlikely he wouldnt have wanted the kitchen fitted unless there was a problem.
 
Mr O had already provided photos of the problems to U. These were also available tor Tesco 
to examine. But the bank insisted it needed a report. Taking all this into consideration, Im 
not satisfied a report was strictly necessary. I accept that once Tesco received the report 
from Mr O in February 2020 it gave him a refund a few weeks later. But the bank failed to 
add interest to this amount and only did so when prompted by Mr O.
 
Overall, Im satisfied there were problems with the way Tesco handled Mr Os Section 75 
complaint. There was no meaningful contact with him for over 10 weeks. I can understand 
why Mr O would be concerned at this and that he wouldnt get a refund of the money hed 
spent on an unsatisfactory quality kitchen.
 
When Tesco was in contact with Mr O it wouldnt accept his evidence of the problems with 
the kitchen units, even though theyd remained unfitted in his garage for nearly four months 
and Mr O could provide photos showing the problems. This would have added to Mr Os 
distress and inconvenience. Then, when Tesco did give him a refund, it didnt pay him the 
interest that Mr O was expecting. Again, I can understand why this would have upset him.
 
In summary. For the reasons Ive just outlined, Im satisfied the way Tesco handled Mr Os 
Section 75 complaint would have caused him both distress and inconvenience. I can see 
Tesco has already paid Mr O £50 for this. But taking all the above into account, I think 
further compensation of £100 is proportionate to the situation here.
My final decision
My final decision is Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay Mr O a further £100.Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my 
decision before 9 March 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman