DRN-4273545
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly declined his 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S said the damage claimed for were caused by storm conditions around 
November 2022. He says a window has been damaged by a loosened branch, which 
fell and hit the window. 
RSA declined the claim as it said the damage reported by Mr S was caused by wear 
and tear  which is excluded under the terms of the policy.
The policy says that a storm will involve strong winds powerful enough to cause 
structural damage to homes.
Weather records do not show storm conditions from around the time the damage 
occurred, in late November 2022. However, I can see around two weeks prior to this 
wind speeds of up to 45mph were recorded. This speed isnt quite strong enough to 
cause the sort of damage described in the policy, but Ive also thought about whether 
the damage reported is consistent with that caused by a storm  and if so, whether I 
think it was the main or dominant cause of the damage.
Its plausible storms can cause damage in the way Mr S has described. However, Im 
not persuaded this is what has happened here.
RSAs specialist reported in its survey the arch brick top was in poor condition and 
that damage to the windows was a result of wear and tear. 
RSA have provided photos of the damaged window which do show its general 
condition to be poor. The frames show signs of rot and general wear. There are also 
several different cracks in the window, in multiple panes, going in different directions. 
These cracks dont appear to show any impact points that Im persuaded are 
consistent with a falling branch - and one of the cracks appears to originate around a 
rusted nail between the windows frame and pane. 
Mr S has also provided photos of the window. However, having considered these I 
think the condition of the window still appears to be similar to RSAs photos. 
Mr S has mentioned the windows and panes were rattling in the wind prior to the 
damage. But I think this further supports that the overall condition of the window was 
poor. And if the wear and tear shown in the photos wasnt present, Im not persuaded 
the speeds recorded wouldve caused the type of damage reported.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded by what RSA has said, that 
the damage has been caused by wear and tear and not by a storm. So, I think it has 
applied the exclusion fairly to decline Mr Ss claim.
Mr S has also spoken of damage to electrics and plasterboard at the property but 
hasnt provided detail of how it happened. When making a claim, the onus is the on 
the policy holder to show a valid claim exists for one of the events covered under the 
policy. As Mr S hadnt done so at the time of bringing the complaint to our service, I 
cant say RSA have acted unfairly in not offering cover for this. 
However, Mr S has told our service he would look to obtain further reports regarding 
the cause of damage. These would need to be provided to RSA to consider in the 
first instance. 
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman