DRN-2000924
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs C took out on a store card account in October 1993. 
It was added to her account when she applied for the card whilst out shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs C mainly says that she was led to believe that if she didnt sign for PPI then she wouldnt 
get the store card she was applying for and it wasnt made clear to her that having PPI was 
optional. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Mrs C aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. Heres why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application from the time of sale. There are Yes 
and No tick boxes for PPI  so I think Mrs C wouldve been aware that it was up to her to 
choose if she wanted to take out PPI. And she couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt 
wanted PPI. 
The Yes box is ticked on Mrs Cs application and shes signed the completed form. So 
although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI I  think it was made clear on the 
paperwork that it was up to Mrs C to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
I can completely understand why she mightve forgotten this now as the sale was a long time 
ago. But, based on all the information Ive seen, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs C aware 
that the policy was optional - and she chose to take it out. 
As Mrs C completed this application in a store I dont think a recommendation was made by 
AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for her. 
But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs C enough clear information to be able to decide if 
the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. 
So I need to consider if Mrs C wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if better 
information had been provided. 
On balance I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs C taking out the PPI.
AXA doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mrs C took out PPI. But it has 
provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think its likely that in all main 
respects the policy that Mrs C took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Mrs C has told us she was entitled to up to three months sick pay if she wasnt working. 
But the policy wouldve paid out a benefit in addition to any sick pay. So this couldve been 
useful  especially if Mrs C mightve had some extra costs as a result of illness or disability. 
And the policy couldve kept on paying out for as long as Mrs C was off work sick - and 
cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to return to work. 
The policy also provided cover if Mrs C lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
 Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs C couldve benefitted from having PPI.
Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited the policys benefit 
to her. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think having more information about 
these policy terms wouldve changed her mind about taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs C clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But she chose to take it out when she didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted 
it at the time, even if shes forgotten this now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs C, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think Mrs C still wouldve taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman