DRN-1973455
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs A payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
 This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The PPI 
was first taken out in 1994 when the mortgage started, and then changed in 1996.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
First I should say how I have weighed up the evidence and arguments. Mr and Mrs A say 
that, in a situation where there isnt enough information, our adjudicator has given 
Nationwide the benefit of the doubt. 
I can see why they would feel this, and why they would be frustrated. However, where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And I dont think there is enough evidence to 
fairly say Nationwide did do something wrong when it sold the PPI.
Mr and Mrs A have said they were told they had to have PPI, and that this means the PPI 
was mis-sold to them.  I think in fact that, in 1994, to some extent they were told they had to 
have PPI  but that this wasnt in itself wrong. It looks as though, in return for taking a fixed 
rate mortgage deal, Nationwide made it a condition that Mr and Mrs A also had to take PPI. 
Nationwide has sent us a copy of a leaflet it says would have been given to Mr and Mrs A at 
the time. I can see that this sets out that the PPI was compulsory if you wanted this 
particular deal. 
Saying that PPI is compulsory, in a situation like this, doesnt count as mis-selling. We have 
seen cases where a lender has made a customer think PPI was compulsory when it wasnt 
really  and we would normally regard that as mis-selling. But in Mr and Mrs As case, it 
looks like Nationwide probably explained the terms of the deal. Mr and Mrs A would then 
have the choice of taking a different deal from Nationwide if one was on offer, or of taking 
their business to a different lender. 
Mr A says that he must have been told in 1996, when the fixed rate deal was over, that PPI 
could not be cancelled. He says this because he has found a fax he sent to Nationwide 
saying he wanted to cancel PPI. But he says this fax appears to have been given back to 
him at a meeting, and the PPI continued (although I can see it was changed so that it only 
then provided cover against unemployment). 
However, this wouldnt be strong enough evidence to support Mr As suspicions about what 
he was told in 1996. It could equally be that he was persuaded that it would be a good idea 
to keep unemployment cover on. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs A as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs A to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr A (the person covered) 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they 
would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr and Mrs A in a more secure 
position, if theyd eventually lost income due to Mr As long-term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mr and Mrs A took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely 
this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs A would have been affected by any of these. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs A because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman