DRN-4337497
The complaint
Mr O complained that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) reversed a sale that he made 
in his share dealing account after the trade had been successfully executed. He said that by 
doing this Halifax caused him a loss of about £650.
I note Mr O is a customer of Lloyds Bank Direct Investment Service. Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investment Service is operated by Halifax. And Halifax is the regulated business responsible 
for the activities Mr O has complained about. So in this decision Ive referred to the business 
as Halifax.
What happened
Mr O has a stocks and shares dealing account provided by Halifax which he uses frequently 
to trade stocks and shares for his livelihood.
He said that on 3 February 2023, between 2.30pm and 3.00pm, he sold some shares. But 
on the following trading morning, when he opened his account with the intention of 
purchasing some shares, his account showed that the sale of 3 February 2023 had not 
happened.
Mr O said that on 3 February 2023, after the sale of the shares, the trading page that he saw 
on his account showed he had a cash balance of £50,665.83. He said that balance included 
the proceeds of the sale and it showed that the trade had gone through. Mr O mentioned 
that it was a figure he couldnt have made up.
Mr O complained to Halifax. Halifax audited the trading activity on Mr Os online account. It 
said the audit showed Mr O had tried to sell the shares on 3 February 2023 but that an error 
message had been generated. Halifax told Mr O the text of the error message and said it 
meant no live price was available or the live price offered had been withdrawn by the market 
makers. Halifax said that when this happens Mr O has the option to route the order through 
its dealing team to be executed as a negotiated order, but Mr O didnt do that.
Halifax also said Mr Os account didnt at any time have a balance of £50,665.83.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. The Investigator acknowledged Mr Os 
frustration at missing out on the proceeds of the sale he attempted to make, but didnt think it 
was Halifaxs fault. The Investigator said the following:
Mr Os portfolio history showed there was no sale on 3 February 2023, and no 
indication any sale had been reversed. 
Mr Os portfolio history also didnt show funds entering his account on 3 February 
2023.
Halifax terms and conditions said Mr O would receive a bargain reference number if 
an order was accepted, but Mr O hadnt received a bargain reference number.
An error message had been generated when Mr O attempted the sale. Halifax said 
the error was market-related and not due to an error in Halifax systems. And there 
was no evidence to indicate this wasnt the case.
The Investigator shared with Mr O the evidence that Halifax provided. Mr O said the 
Investigator shouldve asked for a copy of his trading page which he said would show the 
funds available and other information. The Investigator said Halifax had provided all the 
evidence it could provide, and there was no evidence Halifax could provide that would show 
the trade had gone through.
Mr O didnt accept the Investigators view. Because no agreement could be reached, this 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I do understand Mr Os frustration at his sale not going through. I understand the 
proceeds of his trading activity are important to him. And I accept he had the impression on 
3 February 2023 that the sale he wanted to make had happened.
But I dont think the trade was made and then reversed by Halifax. On the balance of 
probabilities, I think the trade wasnt made on 3 February 2023 for market-related reasons. 
And that wasnt in the control of Halifax.
Halifax has provided evidence showing the trade wasnt executed and that the reason was 
because the market price for the trade was unavailable or withdrawn by the market makers. 
Ive seen nothing to show this information from Halifax cant be relied on.
Mr O said his trading page from the time of the trade would show the trade had gone through 
on 3 February 2023 because the proceeds were showing in his cash balance. But Halifax 
cant reproduce a customers screen from a historical point in time. Halifax did produce 
Mr Os payment history from its systems  and the payment history showed no amount being 
added to Mr Os cash balance from a sale on 3 February 2023.
Taking into account all of the available evidence, I cant say Halifax has done anything 
wrong here. Im not persuaded Mr Os sale went through on 3 February 2023. And the 
evidence doesnt allow me to conclude that it was Halifax that prevented the sale.
I know Mr O will be disappointed by my decision. And I sympathise with his position. But 
there simply isnt the evidence to persuade me that, on the balance of probabilities, Halifax 
caused Mr O to miss out on the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman