DRN-2783225
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) has unfairly 
said it wont meet a claim they made for storm damage to the wall around their property.
What happened
On 13 February 2020 Mr and Mrs M discovered that a dry stone wall marking the boundary 
of their property had collapsed, exposing a waste water drain pipe that was also damaged.
Mr and Mrs M contacted AA, saying recent storms and heavy rain had caused the damage: 
AA agreed to consider the claim. AA sent a contractor out to look at the damage: the 
contractor thought excessive vegetation growing on the wall had contributed to the collapse. 
AA said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs M pointed out that they cut back the vegetation on the wall twice a year to 
prevent damage, and inspect the wall to make sure its sound at the same time. They got an 
independent engineer to look at the problem, and he thought the damage was caused by the 
waste pipe leaking. It was noted that the wall either side was still intact.
AA reviewed the claim, but concluded that the pipe must have been leaking for some time, 
and thought a damaged joint or joints had probably contributed to the damage. Mr and Mrs 
M pointed out that there was nothing in the report that suggested the leak had been going on 
for some time, and that their local water company had inspected the drain pipes and thought 
they were in good condition, showing no signs of long term leaking before the collapse. 
Further investigation of the drain pipe belonging to Mr and Mrs M wasnt possible as it had 
been removed.
AA also looked at the claim under the subsidence section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. But it 
concluded that there was no cover available under that section.
Mr and Mrs M complained, but AA wouldnt change its position. So Mr and Mrs M asked this 
service to review their complaint.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for AA to rely on the opinion of its contractor 
when deciding whether to meet the claim. And she thought AA had interpreted the 
subsidence cover correctly. She said that, had Mr and Mrs M had accidental damage cover 
for their building that there might have been cover  but she didnt look further into this as Mr 
and Mrs M hadnt bought this cover. She didnt think the complaint should succeed.
Mr and Mrs disagreed with this. They sent in some additional research theyve done about 
typical stone faced wall in Cornwall and pointed out where they thought AA had mis-
interpreted the report done for the water company. They remain convinced the storm was 
the cause of the damage, but have also said that they dont believe the terms and conditions 
in the policy are clear as far as accidental damage is concerned.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs 
M, and Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. There are several parts to considering a 
complaint like this and Ill comment on these separately. 
Was there a storm?
Mr and Mrs M say the damage was caused by a named storm in 2020. One of the first things 
I look at in claims like this is whether there was a storm  because it follows that without one, 
a claim cant be made under the storm section of the policy. Weather reports confirm there 
were storms in the UK at the relevant time, so I need say no more on this.
Is the damage typical storm damage?
I then go on to look at whether the damage seen here is typical of that caused by storms. I 
think it could be, as saturated land can slip in certain weather conditions.
Was the damage caused by one particular storm?
The final point for me to consider is whether this particular damage was caused by a storm, 
rather than anything else. This is the point where there are likely to be disagreements, as 
there are here. 
First I must say that its generally accepted that an insurer can rely on a report completed on 
its behalf when deciding is a claim should be met or not. But its also expected that the 
insurer considers any other relevant reports and information when reaching its decision.
The initial report commissioned by AA says that the wall was overgrown and the vegetation 
had weakened the wall and contributed to its collapse. I cant say AA was wrong to use this 
information when it initially said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs M said they maintain the wall regularly so vegetation isnt the issue. They sent in 
a report done on their behalf that said the cause was a leaking pipe.
They also sent a copy of a report commissioned by their local water company which they say 
supports their claim. I think this is a good one to rely on as it wasnt written for either AA or 
Mr and Mrs M  so its likely to be unbiased.
This report says, in summary, that the stone faced bank was too steep to resist the earth 
pressures behind it  and noted the exceptionally wet weather that had occurred over a 
prolonged period. The writer says this would have affected the ability of the bank to keep its 
shape  hence the collapse.
The writer goes on to say that he doesnt think the drainage pipe was leaking before the 
incident. Mr and Mrs M say AA mis-interpreted the report(s) and photos and said the pipe 
must have been leaking for a period of time. I cant say why that happened  but I can 
accept the conclusion from the independent report that the pipe most likely wasnt leaking 
before the incident.
What the report describes is much closer to the definition of landslip  described in the 
policy as Downhill movement of soil on sloping ground. From the report Ive seen this was 
likely caused by water being absorbed into the bank until it no longer supported itself and 
collapsed  taking the top part of the wall with it. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M, their policy 
doesnt cover them for landslip (or subsidence) unless their main home is also damaged  
and Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case.
From all that Ive seen it appears that the conclusions of the report are that bad weather over 
a prolonged period of time caused the collapse. That isnt the same as saying the damage 
was caused only by one storm. So I cant say AA has unfairly said it wont meet the claim 
under the storm damage, landslip or subsidence sections of the policy.The only remaining cover could be accidental damage  which is described as unexpected 
and unintended damage caused by sudden and external means. But Mr and Mrs M dont 
have this sort of cover. They say they decided not to buy this based on the description given 
when they bought the insurance. I cant comment further on this here as the policy wasnt 
sold by AAUCIL but instead by another business. Mr and Mrs M could complain about how 
the policy was sold if they wish and if they are unhappy with the outcome they may be able 
to bring a fresh complaint to this service.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman