DRN-3678109
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In August 2020, Mr W acquired a new car from a dealership. He paid a deposit of £250 using 
his JLFS credit card. And the remaining balance was financed by a hire purchase agreement 
with another finance provider  who Ill refer to as R. 
When Mr W took delivery of the car, he discovered that it didnt have automatic wipers  a 
feature he was told would be included as standard. It came to light that by the time the car 
had been delivered, this feature was only available as an added extra.
Mr W raised a complaint to R and the dealership. They were unable to identify a like-for-like 
replacement car with automatic wipers but instead, in September 2020, set out a number of 
options in an attempt to resolve the matter. This included a replacement car in a different 
colour; a replacement car with a higher specification provided Mr W paid the difference in 
costs; rejection of the vehicle; or retention of the car with cash compensation. 
Mr W didnt think the offers went far enough. So, in October 2020, he raised a claim to JLFS 
under section 75 of the CCA. 
JLFS initially considered the claim under the chargeback process and in December 2020, it 
was declined. JLFS said the chargeback rules didnt allow for a claim where the supplier had 
offered a resolution. Mr W informed JLFS the offer made wasnt acceptable and asked it to 
consider the claim under section 75. He was asked to provide all the evidence supporting his 
claim, but Mr W confirmed this had already been provided. Around this time, Mr W referred 
his complaint about R to our service.
Throughout January 2021, Mr W chased JLFS for confirmation that his claim had been 
passed to the section 75 team. And in February 2021, after expressing dissatisfaction that 
his emails had gone unanswered, he was told a complaint had been logged. This was 
responded to shortly afterwards, with compensation of £30 being credited to Mr Ws account 
by way of an apology. 
Mr W contacted JLFS again in April 2021 as he still didnt have an answer to his section 75 
claim. And JLFS issued a further complaint response in April 2021 explaining that a section 
75 claim couldnt be pursued for the same reason as the chargeback claim  as the supplier 
had offered a resolution. 
Mr W sent several emails to JLFS between April and July 2021 in response to the rejection 
of his complaint. But he didnt receive anything back. 
In July 2021, an ombudsman at our service issued a final decision on Mr Ws complaint 
about R. They said the range of solutions offered to Mr W were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And they didnt think R needed to do anything more. Mr W subsequently 
accepted this decision and opted to retain the car with cash compensation for the 
misrepresentation of its features. 
Mr W returned to JLFS and in August 2021 it acknowledged that it had failed to handle his 
claim correctly. It admitted the claim had never been considered by the section 75 team and 
that Mr Ws emails hadnt been responded to. To put things right, it passed the claim to the 
correct team and offered £250 compensation. 
JLFS went on to consider the section 75 claim and made an offer of £1,000 in full and final 
settlement. It said this was in line with the offer previously made by R which had been 
considered fair by the ombudsman. 
Mr W wasnt happy so, in January 2022, he brought his complaint about JLFS to our service. 
JLFS subsequently found out that Mr W had accepted compensation of £1,000 from R, so it 
retracted this offer.
In May 2022, our investigator issued her view on the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said 
whilst there had been failings in the way Mr Ws claim was handled by JLFS, she considered 
the offer of £250 compensation to be fair. She was also satisfied JLFS didnt need to take 
any further action on the section 75 claim as things had been resolved between Mr W and R. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Customer service
Its not in dispute that Mr W received poor customer service from JLFS whilst handling his 
claim under section 75. JLFS acknowledges that it failed to pass the claim to its section 75 
team and that many emails from Mr W went unanswered. So I dont need to decide whether 
it did something wrong here  it did. What I need to decide is whether it did enough to put 
things right. 
Where a business has done something wrong, Id expect it to put the customer back in the 
situation they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. In this case, JLFS 
passed Mr Ws claim to the section 75 team thereby putting him back in the situation he 
wouldve been in had they actioned things correctly at the outset. 
But this doesnt make up for the nine-month delay in doing so, and the impact this wouldve 
had on Mr W. For this, JLFS has offered £250 compensation and I need to decide whether 
thats a fair amount based on the impact its actions had. 
Whilst JLFS took no action on Mr Ws claim between January and September 2021, Im 
mindful that during that time Mr W had offers on the table from R to resolve his dispute. And 
he had a decision from our service to say these offers were fair. 
So Ive taken into account that although JLFS were wrong not to be pursuing things, the 
impact was slightly tempered by the fact that R  as the supplier of the car  were already 
dealing with the same dispute at that time and actively trying to resolve things. And Mr W 
wouldnt be entitled to a settlement under section 75 if the dispute had already been 
resolved by the supplier. So Im not persuaded the delay in actioning the claim has caused a detriment to Mr W 
outside of some distress and inconvenience he undoubtably wouldve experienced from 
having to continuously chase JLFS for a reply that wasnt forthcoming. I can understand this 
wouldve been frustrating, especially when the limited replies he did receive were unhelpful 
and incorrect. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied £250 fairly compensates Mr W for what went 
wrong here.
  
Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services using a form 
of credit to claim against their credit provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
on the part of the supplier of the goods or services.
But for section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied  one of which 
is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between the parties. Whether or 
not theres an established DCS agreement is based on the way the arrangements between 
the parties are structured. 
In this case, Mr W paid £250 to the dealership as a deposit. But the car was sold to R, who 
then supplies it to Mr W under the hire purchase agreement. So this adds a party to the 
transaction which could mean the necessary conditions for a valid section 75 claim dont 
exist. This is because the arrangement for the transaction in dispute are structured as 
Mr W  JLFS  the dealership  R. 
Even if Im wrong on this point, Im mindful that the substance of the claim has been dealt 
with by R. Ultimately Mr W cant be compensated twice for the same set of circumstances. 
As the dispute was in fact resolved, by way of an offer from R that Mr W accepted, the 
matter is concluded. 
On that basis, I dont consider it unreasonable for JLFS to retract its offer of settlement. 
Mr W has been compensated by R for what went wrong. So even if section 75 does apply 
here, theres no claim to be made. 
My final decision
John Lewis Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman