DRN-2674294
The complaint
Mr K has complained HSBC UK Bank plc blocked his account and didnt sort out the related 
problems for over six months.
What happened
At the end of June 2019 Mr K paid in a substantial cheque to his account with HSBC. The 
bank on which the cheque was drawn (who Ill call L) contacted HSBC on 3 July to confirm 
payment of the cheque had been stopped. They said the cheque had been stolen.
As the cheque was for a substantial amount, HSBC took the decision to block Mr Ks 
account. They also believed the writing on the cheque and paying-in slip was similar so this 
had given them cause to think.
Mr K attended his branch on 6 July to provide evidence to show the cheque was genuine. 
He was loath to allow staff to copy some of the correspondence provided as this contained 
third party personal data. But he felt reassured things would be sorted out as hed been able 
to show the cheque was his and why. This was followed up by the solicitors who gave the 
cheque to Mr K writing to his branch and confirming the situation.
HSBC continued to block Mr Ks account. On occasion they tried to elicit more information 
from L but got nowhere. The block wasnt removed from Mr Ks account until 31 January 
2020. HSBC did not confirm this directly to him.
Mr K had lodged a complaint with the ombudsman service in August 2019 as he was 
unhappy with what had happened. He believed hed been treated unfairly. He wanted HSBC 
to pay:
interest on the cheque for the period he didnt have use of those funds from early 
July to 27 August 2019;
interest on his own money in his HSBC account which he wasnt able to access from 
3 July 2019 to 31 January 2020; and
compensation for the distress caused. Hed been questioned by his branch as if he 
was a criminal. This had also coincided with the birth of his child and he felt deprived 
him of some of the enjoyment that would normally happen at such a joyful time.
It took our investigator a great deal of time to find out what had happened. This was partly 
down to L being unable to respond to our queries. However they eventually confirmed theyd 
mistakenly informed HSBC the cheque had been stolen. This had never been the case.
Our investigator felt HSBC had delayed removing the blocks on Mr Ks account. This had 
inconvenienced him. He asked HSBC to pay him £250 in compensation.
HSBC accepted this outcome. Mr K didnt think this made up for what had happened.  
As our investigator was unable to mediate any further compensation, Mr Ks complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 18 February 2021. I felt that slightly more 
compensation should be paid to Mr K because of the delays caused by HSBC and the 
impact on him. I recommended 8% simple interest should be paid for the time period Mr Ks 
account was blocked, along with £650 for the trouble caused.
Mr K raised some issues around my findings on the disputed cheque which I cover below but 
accepted the compensation I was asking HSBC to pay him. HSBC also accepted the 
outcome.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
I can see there are two different aspects to this complaint: the cheque and the blocking of 
the account. Whilst HSBCs evidence suggests all the problems come from the notification 
from L that the cheque was stolen, I dont believe this is the full story. 
The cheque
Theres no dispute here that L decided  for whatever reason  the cheque had been stolen 
and decided not to pay out on it. On that basis I dont believe HSBC had any choice. They 
were unable to pay out on the cheque as this decision was nothing to do with them and they 
werent getting any money from L to pay out the cheque.
Mr K is understandably frustrated that he cant get redress on this aspect. Under our rules he 
doesnt qualify as an eligible complainant as hes not a customer of L. The solicitors that 
provided the cheque to Mr K can complain to L. But I agree with Mr K that theres no reason 
why they would now do so. This means that he cant get redress for the error L made even 
though all parties, including our service, accepts this was their mistake and it had an impact 
on Mr K.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask HSBC to pay interest on the cheque for the 
period Mr K didnt have use of the money. They didnt make the decision to not pay out on 
the cheque. If I were to ask them to do this  as they would have no mechanism to be 
recompensed  I think this would appear as if I was penalising them. That isnt part of our 
remit. I appreciate that by doing this, Mr K must feel hes losing out as he didnt have the 
benefit of the cheque until 27 August.
Blocking Mr Ks account
Ive seen no evidence to show that HSBC were obliged to block Mr Ks account. Theyve 
provided me nothing about their processes and policies around this. Their fraud notes show 
this decision was taken based on the value of the cheque. This was to all intents and 
purposes £46,000.
However I can see from Mr Ks bank statements for the preceding six months that there were regular high-value payments made into and out of his account. For example more than 
£85,000 was paid in in February 2019 and nearly £30,000 less than a month later. A further 
£20,000 credited Mr Ks account in April 2019. Ive seen nothing which suggests that HSBC 
reviewed Mr Ks normal account use when considering whether to block his account.
In fact from the notes, it appears they backed up this decision by their strong suspicions that 
the customer isnt telling the truth given that the paying in slip and cheque have near 
identical handwriting. I accept that may have been their suspicion but Im not sure  from 
viewing both myself  the evidence totally supports them. And in any case Id suggest that 
lots of people have near identical handwriting so Im not sure what that really means.  
I appreciate  as I state above  HSBC did try to contact L a few times. I cant see they got 
anywhere. But then nothing appears to happens. Even though Mr K had gone into the 
branch to provide evidence for the cheque  and this was backed up by a letter from the 
solicitors. HSBC definitely received this letter as they provided a copy of it to us in their 
evidence. They felt the letter suggested Mr Ks story was genuine. But still HSBC didnt 
remove the block.
In fact nothing happened for months.  
The block was only removed on 31 January 2020. This was more than six months after the 
block was applied. I have to wonder how long does HSBC think was reasonable to keep the 
block on the account? The notes show nothing was done from 11 July onwards. It was then 
HSBC decided that Mr K had to provide copies of evidence to branch for them to resolve 
this. Like our investigator I dont see why HSBC felt this was the only way to resolve this.
Notes show there were a further two touch points: 21 August and 18 December 2019. 
Nothing was done to progress Mr Ks complaint about his blocked account otherwise. On 
18 December HSBC yet again was unable to learn anything further from L. They decided 
they still couldnt make a correct decision.
Yet by 31 January 2020 their not being an [sic] sufficient evidence to keep the block in 
place, HSBC unblocked Mr Ks account. I believe this decision could have been made many 
months earlier.  
From the evidence I can see Mr K took action to minimise the impact on him. He opened 
another bank account on 11 July and set up new payment arrangements. This included his 
salary as well as his direct debits. I see Mr K was only without access to an account for a 
week. But he was without access to the money in his HSBC account much longer than that.
Putting things right
Mr K has argued for more compensation to be payable than our investigator (and HSBC) 
agreed. I believe that would be fair and reasonable. Ive seen nothing to show why HSBC 
continued to block Mr Ks account for more than six months. HSBC admit they never wrote 
to Mr K to advise him they were unblocking the account. They also re-activated regular 
payments from the account despite in all likelihood knowing hed re-arranged these from his 
new account. And they deprived him of his own money. Ive certainly seen nothing to 
indicate why that should have been for so long.
I believe its fair that HSBC pay Mr K 8% simple interest on his own money. Ive decided this 
should start from 11 July when I think HSBC would have been in a position to make a 
decision to remove the block from Mr Ks account. The end date, 4 February 2020, is the 
date Mr K was finally able to access his funds.Theres no doubt this block inconvenienced Mr K. At a minimum he wasnt able to access 
the money in his account, £2,899.47, which cant have made things easy. Particularly as he 
was a new father and there are always significant costs that come with a new child. Theres 
also evidence to show Mr K did everything he could to mitigate his own losses.
There were also the customer service issues which Ive laid out above and I think caused 
trouble to Mr K.
Overall I believe its fair and reasonable that HSBC pay £650 to Mr K for the problems hes 
had. Because of the impact this had on him its fair to fit this into the substantial impact 
category.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
pay 8% simple interest on the money blocked in Mr Ks account from 11 July 2019 to 
4 February 2020; and 
pay Mr K £650 in compensation for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman