DRN-2630996
The complaint
Mr B complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined a claim he 
made on a mobile phone insurance policy with them, and they accused him of making a 
false claim.
What happened
Assurant use a company I will call L to administer Mr Bs policy. All references I make to 
Assurant include company L as they dealt with the claim on behalf of Assurant. Mr B told 
Assurant on 23 September 2020 he had lost his mobile phone. Assurant asked Mr B to 
provide supporting documents so that his claim could be considered. And, after receiving the 
supporting documents, Assurant called Mr B, on 20 October, to discuss the circumstances of 
the claim. Mr B explained how the phone was lost. He also confirmed the phone was linked 
to the cloud account he held with the phones manufacturer, the find my phone feature was 
active, and the phone was protected by a passcode known only to him. In this call, Assurant 
told Mr B they had reason to think the phone was still in his possession. They explained the 
phone had been taken to a retail outlet of the manufacturer for repairs the day after it had 
been reported stolen, and they raised concerns about a previous claim Mr B had made. 
Assurant called Mr B on 6 November to tell him the claim had been rejected. They told him 
they believed his phone hadnt been lost in the circumstances hed explained.
Mr B complained to Assurant about their decision to decline his claim and about the service 
one of their agents provided during the calls with him. Assurant partially upheld the 
complaint and accepted their agent didnt handle the calls appropriately nor in line with the 
level of customer service they expected. They apologised for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused Mr B. In respect of the complaint about the claim being declined, Assurant said 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in declining the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
One of our investigators looked into things for Mr B and thought that Assurant didnt act 
unreasonably when they rejected his claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And that their apology for the way in which their agent dealt with Mr B on the calls was a 
reasonable remedy. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and said the agent who had been dealing with his 
claim had made some wild allegations about him being a phone dealer, and Assurant had to 
apologise for the way the agent dealt with the phone calls to him. Mr B re-iterated that it 
wasnt necessarily him that took the phone to the retail store and that having a passcode 
doesnt mean people cant bypass it when they have possession of the phone. Mr B said that 
anyone couldve backed up his phone if they knew or guessed his passcode.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
investigator I wont be upholding the complaint and I will now explain why. I will first address 
Mr Bs complaint about the declined claim and then comment on the service provided by 
Assurant. 
Mr Bs policy with Assurant explained, It is important that when applying for insurance, or 
submitting a claim you or anyone acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer 
all questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the 
validity of your policy or the payment of your claim. So, I must consider whether Assurant 
acted unfairly when they declined Mr Bs claim because of what Mr B told them compared to 
the evidence they had seen.
Mr B reported the phone as lost and didnt report the phone wasnt working and called his 
network provider the same day to block the existing sim. Mr B also called Assurant to report 
the phone as lost. 
Ive been provided with a screenshot from the manufacturers retail store that supports a 
mobile phone with the same International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number was 
taken to the store because the charger cable wasnt working. This screenshot is dated 24 
September, the day after Mr B reported the phone as lost. Assurant say the person who took 
the phone to the store wouldve had to provide the security passcode for the phone to be 
unlocked for the store to record the repair against the correct phone. Mr B says he did visit 
the store to get a charger cable replaced about this time but says this incident shouldve 
been recorded against another phone he had with the same manufacturer. I consider its 
likely whoever went into the store to obtain a replacement cable knew the passcode to the 
lost phone. Mr B had already told Assurant that only he knew this passcode. The new cable 
was recorded against the lost phones IMEI, which is likely to have been required to record 
the replacement.
Ive seen the phone was backed-up on 21 October, which was the day after Assurant told Mr 
B they had concerns about the claim. The manufacturers website says that theres no way 
to use the backup facility without the passcode. In his call with Assurant the previous day, Mr 
B had initially told them the phone was passcode protected and only he knew the passcode. 
When Assurant declined the claim on 6 November, Mr B told them its possible one of his 
flatmates may have known his passcode.
There are two occasions when Assurant considered the phone had been accessed using a 
passcode that Mr B told them was only known by him. The first time was when Mr Bs phone 
was taken into a store around the time he said he took a phone in for a cable repair. And, the 
second time was when the lost phone was backed-up shortly after Assurant raised concerns 
about the claim. So, I cant say that Assurant acted unreasonably, or treated Mr B unfairly, 
when they declined the claim because they considered there were inconsistencies in what 
Mr B had told them about the circumstances of the claim. 
In respect of the telephone calls with the agent, Ive seen that Assurant apologised for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by these calls. Ive listened to the calls on 20 October 
and 6 November and Im sure the content of the calls did upset Mr B. However, in my 
opinion, the agent was reasonably trying to understand what happened when the phone 
went missing and was challenging Mr B about events on the day the phone was lost and 
subsequent events. I do think the agent couldve handled parts of the call better than he did, 
and I can understand why Mr B was upset by the directness of the agents comments. 
However, Im satisfied Assurants apology is a fair and reasonable remedy and I wont be 
asking Assurant to take any further action in this regard.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman