DRN-3071489
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pi Financial Ltd (trading as Money Foundations) gave him
negligent advice to switch his personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
The advice facilitated investment into a high-risk, unregulated product - the Optima
Worldwide Group (OWG) bond.
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) - unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd, trading as Money Foundations (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand)  stockbroker
James Hay (JH) - SIPP provider
Mr M says he met an individual (EE) at a networking event after he had been made 
redundant. They talked about pensions and EE said Mr M could get a higher return 
elsewhere and he promoted the type of investments he was dealing with.
Pis adviser did provide a formal statement in response to the complaint on a complaints 
investigation form which confirmed that:
I was contacted by an introducer (EE) who was part or associated with The Legal 
Partnership with whom I had an introducer agreement in place.
And in Pis final response letter to Mr Ms complaint, they confirmed Mr M had been referred 
by EE (an unregulated introducer) of the Legal Partnership.
Pi now say it was a different introducer and they were regulated. However, they have not 
provided evidence to substantiate this. 
Theres a letter from Mr M to Pi dated 31 January 2014 which said:
I would like to transfer my existing pension with Aegon into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension plan in order to allow me to access a wider range of investment. Could you please 
recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer accordingly.  
Please note that I have a separate investment adviser who will be arranging investments to 
be held in the SIPP and therefore I do require any advice from you concerning this or the 
suitability of a SIPP platform.
Pis adviser replied by letter dated 3 February 2014 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 31 January 2013 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current Aegon pension plan into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). I confirm I 
am happy to carry out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of market to 
find the most appropriate SIPP for your requirements.
I will have no input into the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into the SIPP.
In mid February 2014, various documents were completed and signed.
This included:
a Client Agreement
a SIPP application form
a transfer analysis and a very rudimentary fact find which recorded some of Mr Ms 
personal details
a Knowledge and experience assessment which showed Mr M didnt really have any
investment experience other than having a pension, a bank account and a saving 
plan all of which he had received advice on.
Pi recommended a SIPP with JH for Mr M and he transferred his pension worth around 
£31,600 into the SIPP. In March 2014, Pi instructed to transfer £30,000 of the funds to 
Strand and it was subsequently invested into OWG bonds.
Strand went into liquidation in 2017 and the OWG bonds have since been given a nil value
by JH.
Mr M made a complaint to Pi in 2019 about the advice he received from them which they
rejected. One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should
be upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Mr M had been suitable and Pi should
compensate Mr M for his losses.
Pi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also considered their
submissions on similar complaints. However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to
be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of this complaint.
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided
Mr M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable.
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice to switch his SIPP or on the investment in OWG.
Mr M had already decided what he wanted to do before he approached Pi.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Strand who was also a
regulated firm. They are responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who only played a
very limited role here. 
Mr M was influenced by LP and likely would have moved to a SIPP and into OWG
even if Pi had not recommended the SIPP.
Pis most recent position is that the introducer was acting for a regulated firm and so 
the complaint should be redirected to them.relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of
particular relevance to this complaint is:
PRIN 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant,
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation,
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable?
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and
If Mr M did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with
regulated investment advice.
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
included:
Advising on investments
53. Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme.
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the recommendation letter where
advice and recommendation are mentioned throughout. It also said Pi had recommended to 
surrender/discontinue the contracts outlined in the replacement form (which was Mr ms 
personal pension).
Im satisfied that recommending a suitable SIPP provider can be considered to be advising
under Article 53 RAO. Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a
personal recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations
in COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer?
Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. MrR had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch to the SIPP or
where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for
purpose (Section 1B FSMA).
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related
investment risks. I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks
of his intended investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the
establishment of the SIPP itself. 
Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why Mr M wanted 
a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the SIPP was 
established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific SIPP 
product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his funds 
were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. Assessing the 
suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is not reasonably 
possible.
During the investigation of this complaint Pis adviser provided his testimony. He said he did
due diligence on Strand once he knew where investments would be placed. Theres no 
evidence in this particular case whether Pi knew Mr M was intending to invest in OWG 
specifically, however even if they didnt, in order to give suitable advice they needed to ask 
for this information.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for
customers. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseasproperty investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the
overall advice is not suitable.
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP)
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi says Strand
would have given Mr M advice on his investments. However, Mr M opened an account with
Strand on an execution-only basis and I cant see any evidence that they were intending to
provide Mr M with investment advice.
They also said LP had regulated advisers and it was one of them who advised Mr M.
However, both Mr M and Pis adviser in his testimony said it was EE who introduced Mr M 
and not the individual Pi now says was involved. And the adviser said it had been an 
unregulated introducer. So I think based on the evidence provided I think its more likely than 
not it was an unregulated party. 
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest. I want to be clear that I consider Pis
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP, Pi needed to consider Mr Ms
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch between
SIPPs, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the underlying
investment strategy.
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking
instructions from Mr M to only advise on the SIPP wrapper in isolation.Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi to consider the
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP - whether he
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ms case.
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenhalgh, but it doesnt change my findings either.
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the James Hay SIPP, Pi
had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the pension switch
and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr M was 49, self-employed and was earning £30,000 per year. He had a mortgage of 
£55,000 and savings worth £10,000. He had no significant investment experience. 
The OWG bond was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are
not regulated. The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us on another complaint)
confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Mr M completed that he didnt have the necessary
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of his retirement funds. Pi
have also confirmed to this service previously that they consider the OWG bond to be
unsuitable for retail investors, so I dont think its really in dispute that Mr Ms intended
investment was unsuitable for him.Given Mr Ms lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded he was a credible self-
investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Mr M needed to change his pension to a
SIPP with more investment options.
Pi knew - or ought to have known - that the intended investment into OWG was too high risk
and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Ms circumstances. Despite this, they
recommended a SIPP to facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have
explained that his intended investment was too high risk and that given this was a significant
proportion of his retirement provisions, he couldnt financially bear the risks with his
retirement funds.
In my view, Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the
SIPP which facilitated an investment which was clearly not suitable for him. They didnt pay
due regard to Mr Ms interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their
personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory obligations. 
Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair or
reasonable in the circumstances.
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Mr M would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi
told him. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume
that Mr M was given this brochure - which is something I dont know - he might have been
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have
influenced Mr M in the background and could have persuaded him to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm
recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Mr
R had no real investment experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to
properly understand the risks he was taking with his entire pension here.
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Ms overall
financial position. He didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which
was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, as a
regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his circumstances,
the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his pension in this
way, I think he would have decided not to proceed.
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was risk Mr M was being influenced by LP
and potentially not given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they
should have established what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
Im not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly motivated to make the
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert
advice. I think if Pi had been given him clear information about how risky the OWG
investment was and that he could lose a significant amount of money, he would have
listened.
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for him. In his pension
transfer analysis he ticked boxes to say he was happy with the performance and charges ofhis existing plans and was happy they were kept with financially secure providers. So I think
if Pi had recommended against the SIPP and the subsequent investment in OWG, Mr M
likely would have remained invested where he was.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on Strand
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M.
The account Mr M had with Strand was execution-only. So they werent intending to give Mr
M any advice.
I also dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm (F1)
receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity on
behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and Stand were F2. However, Pi
didnt receive any instructions here from these parties.
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr M would be invested in. If they had done so, they
would have known his intended investment in OWG was high risk and unsuitable for him.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on
Strand (or any other third party) providing Mr M with a suitable investment, when they knew
or ought to have known he was about to invest into an unsuitable product.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more
likely than not would have not transferred his pensions to a SIPP and subsequently not into
the OWG bonds. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi
compensates Mr M for any losses he suffered by transferring into the JH SIPP and investing
into OWG. 
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018].
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation.
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment
in the SIPP as explained above.
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended
investment was evidently unsuitable for Mr M. For the reasons I have given earlier in the
decision, I think Mr M wouldnt have been in the JH SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi
had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered
the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M suffered from the high-risk
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
As I said above I think its more likely than not LPs introducer was unregulated. But even if 
Mr M received advice on the OWG bond from a regulated individual at LP, I can only 
consider the complaint in front of me which is against Pi. And as explained above, Pi could 
have prevented Mr Ms losses by giving him suitable advice. So I think its fair they 
compensate him for his losses in full. If Pi considers that another partys actions have contributed to these losses, they are free to pursue this directly with them after having 
compensated Mr M in full.
OWG might distribute funds to customers at some point, however its unclear if and when
this will happen. So in the circumstances I think its fair for Pi to compensate Mr M now. Ive
included ways to ensure Mr M is not overcompensated in the redress below.
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put him as close as possible
into the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Mr M would more likely than not have stayed in his
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the
SIPP.
Pi should request a notional value from Mr Ms previous pension provider. Pi should 
calculate compensation by comparing the value that Mr Ms pensions would have
been at the date of my final decision (Value A) with the value of his SIPP (Value B) on the
same date.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint.
However if the previous pension provider isnt able to calculate a notional value, Value A 
should be calculated by applying the following benchmark to the transfer value: FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
When calculating Value A, any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the
calculations from the point in time when they were paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if
they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the Value A
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Mr M received a compensation payment into his SIPP from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) after the liquidation of Strand. This would have been to 
account for a remaining cash amount which was held by them. This payment will be included 
in the actual value, so no further adjustment is needed to account for this.
I understand Mr Ms OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the open
market. This means it can be complicated to establish Value B. So, Value B should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to
pay Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension
plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is
something that Mr M can discuss with JH directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five
years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,
it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr M hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr M £300 for the distress Mr M suffered when he
realised he had lost significant parts of his pension and he couldnt access it when he 
wanted to.
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Mr M within 28 days of us notifying Pi
Financial Ltd that Mr M has accepted my final decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr M in a clear and simple format. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman