DRN-1748198
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she acquired with the assistance of finance from Close Brothers 
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs M entered into an agreement with Close Brothers to finance the purchase of a used car 
on 9 May 2018 for £7,495. A few weeks after Mrs M took possession of the car it broke down 
and she lost all power when she was driving it. It seems this occurred on 21 May 2018. The 
car was recovered to the supplying dealership and on 25 May 2018 the car was returned to 
Mrs M and she was told that the fault was with the timing belt which had been replaced. 
In November 2018 Mrs M said the car began making strange noises and it was again 
returned to the dealership. On that occasion it seems that the oil pump was replaced, and 
big end bearings were replaced in December 2018. Mrs M said that the noises returned in 
July 2019 and by November 2019 Mrs M was told that the car had serious engine issues. A 
report from her garage suggested that the car would need new bearings and a probably a 
new crank shaft, but the engine would need to be stripped to confirm the faults.
Mrs M complained to Close Brothers and an independent inspection was carried out. It 
concluded that there were faults with the car, but these were not there or developing at the 
point of sale. Close Brothers rejected Mrs Ms complaint and so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He didnt 
think there was enough evidence to say that the faults the car had now were there or 
developing at the point of sale or were related to the previous repairs that had been done.
 
Mrs M didnt agree and replied to say in summary that a poorly fitted timing belt was likely to 
have caused the chain of events that led to the faults with the car. Mrs M said that it was 
clear from the repairs and recurring faults that the car had not been properly repaired and 
her mechanic had said this to her although he hadnt put it in writing. Mrs M said that the 
independent inspection was flawed.  
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M - whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mrs M was seven years old, had been driven for 85,000 miles 
and had a price of £7,495. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There were clearly some issues with the car at the outset which resulted in a breakdown and 
a subsequent repair. Mrs M later complained about issues with the engine making a 
knocking noise which was repaired in December 2018, but the fault seems to have returned 
in July 2019 and got progressively worse. 
By the time the car was inspected in December 2019 the car had covered over 105,000 
miles. Mrs M has driven more than 20,000 miles in the car in about eighteen months.
An independent inspection of the car concluded that the car did have faults with the engine, 
but it wasnt clear what the cause of those faults were. The inspection report suggested that 
it may be an oil pump issue. Mrs Ms garage report also confirmed that the engine would 
need to be stripped to determine the exact cause of the fault.
Theres clearly a fault with the engine but Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mrs M. Although there was an early 
breakdown it was soon repaired. Further repairs were carried out around six months later 
under warranty but again I have no evidence that this second fault was related to the first 
and given that different components were replaced it appears to have been an entirely 
separate issue. Mrs M has been able to use the car for eighteen months and to drive more 
than 20,000 miles in it before the car has failed. Although there have been repairs to the car, 
there isnt any evidence that the repairs were badly carried out or have not fixed the 
problems  so Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to her.
I understand the point Mrs M is making with respect to the timing belt, but I think that it is 
unlikely that this is the cause of the issues she is having now because of the miles she has 
been able to travel and the age of the car. Also, there is no evidence from any of the reports 
from the garages that the timing belt or other poor repairs is suspected to be the cause of 
the current problem. I sympathise with Mrs M for the issues that shes had with the car and 
for the repairs that it now needs  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Close 
Brothers to allow Mrs M to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any 
compensation to her or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman