DRN-1506148
The complaint
Ms B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms B bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms B says she was put under pressure to buy the PPI and that Barclaycard didnt 
give her a proper choice about taking the cover. She said she was given the 
impression she had to take the PPI to get the credit card she wanted. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed between Ms B 
and Barclaycard when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time.
I note that Ms Bs credit card application was completed to show that she wanted the 
PPI. There was a box underneath the one that she ticked that she couldve 
completed if she hadnt wanted the cover. And theres nothing on the form to suggest 
that taking the cover was a condition of getting the credit card. 
So without anything else to support what Ms B has told me, on balance I havent 
been able to safely conclude that Barclaycard didnt make her aware that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI.
Barclaycard accepts that it advised Ms B to buy the PPI, and it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Even though Ms B has told me she was entitled to statutory sick pay, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to those benefits. So I think the PPI wouldve been 
useful to Ms B if things went wrong.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Ms B would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman