DRN-3323935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim they made on 
their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have wedding insurance with Great Lakes. They were originally due to get 
married at an overseas venue in September 2020. However, because of the Covid-19 
pandemic they rescheduled for June 2021. The balance for the wedding was due in March 
2021. As lockdown restrictions were still in place and international travel wasnt permitted 
Mr and Mrs M didnt make any further payment. At the end of April their flights were 
cancelled meaning they were unable to reach the venue. They subsequently made a claim 
to Great Lakes for the costs theyd incurred (primarily payments to the venue). 
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said while the policy did provide cover where the 
venue was unable to hold the wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious 
disease that wasnt the case here. The venue remained open and could have held the 
wedding. The policy did cover the inability of guests to reach a wedding but only where this 
was due to adverse weather conditions. And for weddings outside the UK the policy didnt 
cover claims arising directly or indirectly from the cancellation of travel arrangements.  
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered by the policy and thought Great Lakes had 
acted fairly in turning this down. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They argued the policy didnt 
say the venue had to be closed for cover to be provided. And because they were unable to 
reach the venue it wasnt able to hold their wedding  and the reason they couldnt reach it 
was because of Covid-19 (an infectious or contagious disease). They thought the claim 
should be paid. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover them for every eventuality. Under the cancellation 
section, theyre covered for a specified list of events. That includes the booked venue for 
the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding due to an outbreak of 
infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, murder or suicide at the premises or 
closure of the venue by the relevant authority.
It also covers the inability of the wedding party and guests to reach the wedding or wedding 
reception venue due to adverse weather conditions.
I appreciate as Mr and Mrs Ms flights were cancelled they were unable to reach their 
wedding venue. I think its clear the wedding as planned couldnt have gone ahead. But that 
doesnt mean cover for the costs they incurred is available under the terms of their policy. 
For that to be the case the circumstances need to fall within the above terms. The terms 
dont define infectious or contagious disease but I think its reasonable to say Covid-19 (a 
global pandemic) would be covered by that. But I dont think that prevented the booked 
venue from hosting Mr and Mrs Ms wedding. The venue told Great Lakes they had been 
open since June 2020 and able to hold weddings from that date.
Mr and Mrs M say the venue doesnt need to have been closed for cover to apply. And that 
while it might have been able to host weddings in general it was unable to host their wedding 
because Covid-19 prevented them (and their guests) from reaching it. 
I agree the policy doesnt say the venue has to have closed as a result of infectious or 
contagious disease for cover to apply. But it does say it has to be unable to host the wedding 
because of it. I think a reasonable interpretation of that term is something related to Covid-19 
has impacted that venue and prevented it from hosting the wedding (for example an 
outbreak of Covid-19 amongst key staff). 
That isnt what happened in this case. The reason the wedding couldnt go ahead was 
because the cancellation of their flights prevented Mr and Mrs M and their guests from 
attending. I appreciate that cancellation was itself a result of Covid-19 but I dont think that 
means the booked venue was prevented from holding the wedding. And the only situation in 
which an inability to reach the venue is covered is where thats a result of adverse weather 
conditions. That doesnt apply here. 
In any case the policy limits the cover provided within the What you are not covered for 
section. That includes any claim arising directly or indirectly from cancellation/curtailment 
or rearrangement of travel and/or accommodation arrangements made in respect of 
weddings outside the UK.
In this case the wedding was due to take place outside the UK and the claim arises from the 
fact Mr and Mrs M and their guests werent able to attend because their flights had been 
cancelled. So I think that exclusion would apply to the claim they made. And taking 
everything into account I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in turning down this down.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
27 April 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman