DRN-1823067
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc will not refund a transaction she made in June 2019. 
What happened
Ms A has an account with Santander.
On 7 June 2019 a payment for £1,495 was taken from the account. Initially Ms A thought this 
was a fraudulent transaction and contacted Santander. However, Ms A then realised she 
had made a purchase for an oven in error but wanted a refund. And she contacted the 
merchant to explain, they said they would cancel the order and arrange a refund through the 
online selling platform. 
Santander refunded the money to Ms As account and they sent her a form that needed to 
be returned within 14 days.
Ms A thought that the refund came from the merchant so believing the dispute to have been 
sorted she didnt return the form. Santander then re debited the amount to her account on 30 
July 2019.
Ms A contacted Santander who raised a complaint. Santander originally said that Ms A 
should fill in the forms even though the 14 days had passed. Santander later acknowledged 
that it had given Ms A incorrect information. Santander hadnt been able to find the calls Ms 
A had made to them. Because of these failings in customer service, Santander offered Ms A 
£100 in compensation.
Santander received confirmation from the merchant that they had delivered the oven to Ms 
As address. Santander said there was nothing more they could do regarding the dispute 
and Ms A should contact the merchant on the online selling platform in order to get a refund.
Ms A complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said Santander had acted fairly 
during the investigation by refunding the money pending the outcome. She explained the 
chargeback process and she thought that it was unfortunate that due to a misunderstanding 
Ms A hadnt returned the forms. But the dispute was out of time and Santander couldnt do 
any more. So she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She thought the £100 for 
the service errors was fair and reasonable.
Ms A disagreed with the view she said the merchant had told her he would refund the 
amount and that despite the information Santander had received from the merchant 
indicating the oven had been delivered she hadnt received the oven.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Ms A accepts she carried out the transaction. This complaint is brought against Santander. 
However, Ms A has acknowledged that the merchant didnt provided her with accurate 
information.
When Ms A saw an amount she didnt recognise debiting her account she contacted 
Santander who initiated the chargeback process. The investigator has already explained the 
charge back process so I will not go through it again. Having reviewed the evidence I am 
satisfied that Santander acted fairly by initially refunding the amount during the chargeback 
process. They forwarded forms that Ms A had to sign and return within 14 days in order for 
the chargeback process to proceed.
I can see that the forms sent to Ms A were clear in asking her to return the forms within 14 
days. But unfortunately, due to a misunderstanding Ms A didnt return the forms within the 
required timeframe. I understand this will be disappointing to Ms A, but I dont think 
Santander have acted unfairly here in failing to proceed with the chargeback. 
The investigator noted that Santander acknowledged that they could have provided better 
service to Ms A, they offered her £100 in recognition of that. The investigator thought that 
the offer of £100 was fair in the circumstances. I share that assessment, and I dont think it 
necessary for me to award any more.
I appreciate that Ms A will be disappointed with my decision. I acknowledge that this is a 
frustrating situation for her. She has told us that at the time she was moving to a new house 
and expecting a baby and she had two young children so had a lot to contend with. I also 
appreciate that Ms A has said she hasnt received the oven nor the refund.
The underlying dispute here is between Ms A and the merchant and its not for me to 
determine the outcome of that dispute. If Ms A wishes to pursue the matter further, she 
should contact the merchant directly.
As I have said Santander acted fairly in the way that they dealt with the chargeback claim. 
Unfortunately, Santander have reached the end of the chargeback process and as the time 
limits are strict it isnt possible to extend these. I wont therefore be asking Santander to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman