DRN-3150364
The complaint
Mr U complains that TSB Bank plc didnt provide sufficient notice that the rate on his buy-to-
let mortgage was expiring. This caused his mortgage to revert to the standard variable rate 
costing him more in interest.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr U took a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with TSB. He signed up to a two-
year fixed rate deal that expired on 31 January 2021.
TSB wrote to Mr U on 31 December 2020 to remind him that his fixed rate was coming to an 
end. TSB confirmed the follow-on rate and how much his new monthly payments would be.  
TSB also set out how Mr U could get in touch to arrange a new deal. 
Mr U complains that the timing of TSBs letter didnt allow him enough time to explore his 
options and secure a new rate. This caused his mortgage to revert to the standard variable 
rate (SVR), costing him more in interest charges in February 2021. Mr Us new rate switch 
took effect from 1 March 2021. Mr U also gives other reasons why hes unhappy with TSBs 
communication.
TSB answered the complaint. In its final response letter, TSB said it met its obligations by 
letting Mr U know of the changes to his new monthly mortgage payments. TSB referred to 
this letter as being dated 31 January 2021, but it has since confirmed this was a typo. The 
date should read 31 December 2020 and refers to the same letter Mr U is challenging the 
timeliness of. TSB also said Mr Us mortgage product end date was outlined in his mortgage 
offer and 2020 annual statement, so sufficient information about the mortgage terms was 
provided. The complaint wasnt upheld. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr U brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that TSB was under no 
obligation to remind Mr U of his BTL rate ending. But in any event, he found that TSB had 
provided all the necessary information about the mortgage terms including sufficient notice 
of the product end date. Mr U disagreed so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U complains that TSB only wrote to him one month ahead of his fixed rate expiry date. 
He says the letter was incorrectly address (omitting his initials) and TSB didnt allow for 
postage delays in light of the Christmas period and Covid-19. As a result, the letter was 
delayed and he didnt have sufficient time to act upon a new product switch, resulting him 
paying the SVR for a month. 
Mr Us 2019 mortgage offer clearly sets out that this is a BTL mortgage. I think its important 
to explain that traditional BTL mortgages for investment purposes are not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, the relevant rules that lenders have to adhere to 
dont apply here. Thats not to say that our service cant consider good industry practice and 
well also pay regard to whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Because this is a BTL mortgage, TSB was under no obligation to write to Mr U to remind him 
the interest rate on his mortgage was ending. But it should provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the terms of the mortgage.
The 2019 mortgage offer clearly explained the interest rate applicable to Mr Us BTL
mortgage  that this would be fixed until 31 January 2021 and then revert to TSBs SVR.
So, at the point the mortgage was taken, TSB provided Mr U clear information about his 
interest rate and what would happen with the interest rate once his fixed term ended.
The annual statement sent to Mr U in February 2020 sets out the interest rate applicable to 
his mortgage and the early repayment charge applicable if the mortgage is redeemed before 
31 January 2021. 
When raising his complaint with TSB, Mr U said he never received his annual statement. His 
post was being redirected and because his initials had been omitted, the letter never 
reached him. Mr U hasnt raised the redirected post as an issue with our service, but as he 
appears to have raised the matter with TSB, for completeness, Ive addressed this in my 
decision. 
I can see TSB sent the statement to the previous address it held on file for Mr U. The 
statement was addressed using his initials and surname. So, Im satisfied it was correctly 
sent by TSB. I cant hold TSB responsible for the statement not reaching Mr U due to 
unforeseen circumstances outside of its control. 
Mr U also disputes the product expiry date was clearly set out in his annual statements. Im 
satisfied that by setting out the terms of the early repayment charge, Mr U was provided with 
enough information to reasonably know that his product was fixed until the date quoted. As 
thats when it states his interest rate and payment amounts would change.
So, when taking all of this into account, I think its more likely TSB provided Mr U with the 
necessary terms of his mortgage and the conditions of his fixed rate product - and so it 
fulfilled its obligations. 
Mr U disputes receiving his 2019 mortgage offer and the 2020 annual statement. Im not 
persuaded that Mr U has no paperwork relating to his mortgage seeing as its likely one of 
his biggest financial commitments and I think its reasonable to suggest he would have 
queried this sooner with TSB if to be the case. 
TSB also wrote to Mr U on 31 December 2020, one month before his rate was due to expire. 
It appears Mr U called TSB in late January 2021 to say hed just received the letter. For the 
reasons Ive explained, TSB was not required to do anything more to remind Mr U of his 
product ending. So, the timing of this letter for that purpose is not relevant in the 
circumstances. 
Although this is the case, banks are obliged to notify customers (usually at least 10 working 
days) before their direct debit payment amounts are due to change. The sole purpose of this 
letter wasnt to remind Mr U that his rate was ending. It was to advise Mr U of his new 
payment amount. So, it didnt need to be sent within a specific timeframe that catered for 
setting up a new rate. I think TSB sent the letter within a reasonable timeframe for it reach 
Mr U for the purpose intended. TSBs call notes suggest that Mr U said this letter also delayed reaching him due to the 
postal redirection he had set up. This letter was sent to the address Mr U has provided our 
service for the purpose of this case. So, Im satisfied its his current address and therefore 
unlikely a redirection of post was in place. Mr Us initials were missing on this letter, but I 
dont think this was the reason for any delay caused as the rest of the letter was correctly 
addressed. 
When considering everything and taking into account the complaint raised by Mr U, Im 
satisfied TSB provided Mr U with ongoing, clear and regular information about the interest 
rate applicable to his BTL mortgage, when that rate was due to end and the implications of 
not switching to another product on expiry. 
With BTL lending it is the mortgagors responsibility to manage the mortgage. For reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think TSB has acted wrongly in the circumstances and I dont hold it 
responsible for Mr Us mortgage reverting to the SVR. As such, I wont be directing TSB to 
do anything in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
Mt final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman