DRN-4325934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Soteria Insurance Limited has handled their buildings insurance
claim unfairly and refused to cover all the damage claimed for.
Mrs R has been the main correspondent and so for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
References to Soteria include the acts of its agents instructed to deal with the claim.
What happened
The background is well-known to the parties, so Ill only summarise the main points.
In 2018 Mrs R made a claim for damage to her home that she considered was a result of
subsidence. Soterias engineer visited the property but didnt believe subsidence was the
cause and so rejected the claim. A year or so later Mrs R instructed her own surveyor who
inspected the house and concluded subsidence was the cause (a nearby large tree causing
the impact). Soteria accepted the claim.
Due to the poor state of Mrs Rs property, including extensive damp and unrelated to
subsidence, Soteria made a cash offer for the subsidence related damage as it said its
trades people wouldnt undertake repairs. The tree was removed, and the property was
monitored for further movement. It was concluded that there was no longer evidence of
movement and the property deemed stable.
The issues Mrs R brought to us, in summary, concerned:
Inadequate compensation for the delay and poor handling (Soteria offered £75).
More repairs are subsidence related than Soteria has factored in (decoration, an
outside path, damp-proof course, concrete slab, investigate foundation damage,
piling needed.
Reimburse the cost of a second report. 
Soteria should instruct contractors to carry out the work.
Our investigator largely wasnt persuaded that Soteria had done anything wrong, except
around how the claim was handled. For example, while Mrs R was dealing with Soteria, and 
a joint policyholder, Soteria mainly addressed correspondence to Mr R. The incorrect 
declinature of the claim had delayed matters and was distressing. The investigator thought 
£200 compensation was a fairer reflection. On all matters related to repairs though, she 
explained that Soteria had acted fairly given there was no evidence to support it was a result 
of subsidence.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigator and provided further information, which led the 
investigator to adjust her initial opinion:
She remained of the view that there was no evidence the foundations were damaged
(or a concrete slab), but Soteria had said if it was discovered they were then it would
review that aspect.
A slope to a front bedroom had been included in the cash settlement.
There was no expert evidence subsidence had damaged the damp-proof course or
the outside path.
Soteria had provided conflicting views on decoration, and she didnt think it was fair
to exclude decorating costs simply because of a poor state of repair. She said
Soteria should confirm what parts of decoration would be rectified because of the
subsidence.
She said £300 compensation was fair and Soteria should assess whether there was
decoration required because of subsidence.
Mrs R requested an ombudsman to review the complaint and Soteria only replied to the 
investigators initial view agreeing to pay £200 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision stating what parts of the complaint I intended to uphold and 
what Soteria needed to do to put things right:
Im satisfied that it was clearly an error on Soterias part to reject the claim from the outset as
not being subsidence related. Soterias agents are experts in the matter and while they
noted some vegetation in their report, the reality was the vegetation was an extremely large
tree right next to the house. And it was this that was identified by Mrs Rs expert as the
proximate cause of the subsidence. Soterias initial decision being flawed has caused delay
albeit I factor in that it took Mrs R over a year to provide her own report.
The property was in a significant state of disrepair  Mrs Rs own expert said as much too.
Ive seen photographs of the property and note, for example, rotten window frames on the
outside and extensive mould and damp inside. While Mrs R suggests the damp/mould was a
consequence of the subsidence Im not so persuaded and will explain why.
Foundations
Theres no persuasive evidence that the foundations are damaged. And I dont agree that
Soteria, at this stage, needs to pay for piling. While her expert recommended possibly
incorporating a new piled foundation, that method is not apparently necessary for a lasting
and effective repair at this point. Remedial steps were taken to remove trees and after a
period of monitoring the property was found to be stable and not moving. Soteria has said
that if during repair works the foundations are found to be damaged it will review the matter.
Im satisfied this represents a fair outcome.
Damp
Theres no persuasive evidence the damp-proof course was damaged by subsidence.
Indeed, neither expert has concluded as such. Mrs Rs expert has said if there is potential
rebuilding between the foundation and damp-proof course level then estimated costs should
be included. At this point though, the property is considered stable and Soteria has already
agreed to review matters if the foundations are found to be damaged. The extent of mould
and damp within the property is not, in my opinion and having read the expert evidence, a
consequence of subsidence. So Im satisfied this isnt a matter to be factored into Soterias
settlement at this stage. It should review matters if persuasive documented expert evidence
to the contrary arises in the future.
Concrete path
The available evidence shows the path has a crack but theres no expert evidence that this
is a result of subsidence. Soterias expert suggests the damage is age-related and so Im
satisfied Soteria does not need to take any further action.
Front left bedroom
While Mrs R doesnt think Soteria has factored into its settlement a slope in the front left
bedroom. As the investigator explained, relevant work for this appears in the schedule of
work and was confirmed in an email to Mrs R in February 2022. Im not persuaded Soterianeeds to take any further action regarding this slope.
Decorating costs
While I agree with the investigator that its not fair to exclude the costs that are subsidence
related, I dont think its fair that all costs should be covered. Exposed mould and damp will
need addressed before redecorating takes place, and Im not persuaded that should be
covered by Soteria. However, its correct that where Soteria repairs cracks and strip existing
plaster to re-skim, that will leave redecoration as part and parcel of the insured works.
Given the length of time that has passed since the claim was notified and where we are
today, Im going to recommend an amount that I think its fair to expect Soteria to pay. This
will give finality and allow both parties to move on. In doing this Ive take into account the
extensive disrepair of the property and the fact that the damp / mould is not, in my view, a
consequence of subsidence. Ive also considered Soterias point about betterment in so far
as redecoration will put Mrs Rs property in a better position than it was before the claim.
It's inevitable that any redecoration will leave a room in a better position. However, the
extent of mould and the requirement to deal with that would add cost and time beyond mere
redecoration by painting walls. So, Ive looked at Soterias schedule of work that originally
included the decoration.
As far as I can tell from the schedule, redecoration is factored into the front and rear
bedrooms, and the hallway. The decorating costs total £1,591.57 including ceilings, walls,
and architraves. To reflect the extensive disrepair, Im satisfied 50% reflects a fair amount for
Soteria to pay - £795.79. VAT at 20% (£159.16) would be chargeable on this share and so
where Mrs R demonstrates shes paid for redecorating Soteria must pay that additional 
amount. Soterias liability here is to pay VAT on the costs Mrs R has paid up to £795.79. If
Mrs R has paid less than this Soteria need only pay VAT on the amount Mrs R paid.
Handling of the claim
As alluded to earlier, the catalyst for the delay was Soterias initial decision to reject the
claim as not subsidence related. I dont think Soterias expert gave sufficient weight to the
very large tree next to the house. That was the proximate cause as determined by Mrs Rs
expert and seemed to me to be an obvious cause to actively rule out, which Im not satisfied
Soteria did. I factor in that it took Mrs R some time to provide her own expert report but that
shouldnt have been required if Soteria had fairly assessed the claim in the first place.
Ive thought carefully about Soterias decision not to proactively carry out the repairs. The
insurance policy allows Soteria to give a cash settlement and given the extensive disrepair
outside of the insured damage, Im satisfied thats a fair option for Soteria to exercise.
Soteria has reimbursed the cost of the first expert report Mrs R obtained but, like the
investigator, Im not persuaded it should cover the cost of the second report. The first report
was clearly a factor in identifying an insured event had occurred, whereas the second report
has no impact on what should be covered.
Finally, Ive thought carefully about the impact of the delay. I appreciate the frustration
caused with the initial rejection but as things progressed it was clear the repair process was
not going to be straightforward. Mrs R has contested aspects of what she thinks Soteria
should cover but as explained, the vast majority of these are not issues I think should be
covered by Soteria at this stage. While I am of the view Soteria should cover some
decorating costs these are far from what Mrs R thinks and overall, I think the impact is
limited. Soteria has offered to pay £200 but I agree with the investigator that £300 is a fairer
reflection of the frustration and distress caused. It was a single mistake by Soteria that took
a reasonable amount of effort and expense to sort out.Putting things right
Pay Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation less any amount already paid.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £795.79 to reflect 50% (circa) of the decoration costs. And add
simple interest at 8% per year from 22 April 2022 when Soteria issued its settlement
amount to the date this additional payment is issued.
If Mr and Mrs R provide documentary evidence of VAT paid on any redecoration then
Soteria is to reimburse that up to a maximum liability for VAT of £159.16
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited to put things right as
explained in the section immediately above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Soteria responded to say it had nothing further to add having considered my provisional 
decision. 
Mrs R replied to say that she had expected to cover decoration costs as well as replacing 
windows. With regard to subsidence related damage to the floor plate, footings and 
foundations - as the walls will need to be razed to the foundations before being rebuilt (in 
order to carry out the repairs per the scope Soteria have specified) we are concerned about 
the likelihood of lengthy delays whilst the house is uninhabitable if such damage is 
confirmed. Therefore we would need an undertaking from Soteria that they will assess and 
rectify any situation promptly (bearing in mind we would incur costs for accommodation 
as well as storage, and the delays may present difficulties for the contracted builder).  
If Soteria can guarantee that they will make a prompt assessment of any situations arising 
then we are happy to proceed.
I dont intend to add much more to the reasons I gave in my provisional decision and 
repeated earlier in this decision. For clarity though in considering Mrs Rs reply, Soteria has 
said that if during repair works the foundations are found to be damaged it will review the 
matter. Until and unless thats relevant Soteria cant say whether such damage is covered by 
the policy or how that damage will be rectified. Soteria has said it will review things and 
thats all it can reasonably commit to at this stage. 
In that review the policy terms and conditions remain a relevant consideration and so 
Soterias review will be in accordance with the policy. Soteria will still need to handle the 
claim promptly and fairly and if the property is uninhabitable then consideration of alternative 
accommodation and other heads of cover in the policy for provision of storage (if a policy 
benefit) will necessarily form part of Soterias review. I am not going to require Soteria to 
give any undertaking or guarantee because thats of no relevance at this stage. Mrs R will 
need to decide whether to accept my final decision within the relevant timeframe and if she 
does, this decision becomes legally binding on Soteria.
Putting things right
Pay Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation less any amount already paid.oSoteria must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs R accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £795.79 to reflect 50% (circa) of the decoration costs. And add
simple interest at 8% per year from 22 April 2022 when Soteria issued its settlement
amount to the date this additional payment is issued.
If Mr and Mrs R provide documentary evidence of VAT paid on any redecoration then
Soteria is to reimburse that up to a maximum liability for VAT of £159.16.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited to put things right in the way 
specified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman