DRN-1852184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are seeking to recover £80,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which they lost to an 
investment scam.
HSBC said it had made attempts to recover the money but that theyd been unsuccessful. It 
said there was nothing more it could do.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.
I put these findings to HSBC, asking it for comment and letting it know I intended to uphold 
the complaint along these lines. That was because one of our investigators had originally not 
upheld the complaint. Ive not heard back from the bank and so Ive proceeded to issue my 
final decision. My reasons are as follows: 
1. It is common ground that Mr and Mrs P authorised the following payments as part of a 
scam:
£10,000 on 20 September 2018;
£10,000 on 21 September 2018;
£20,000 on 9 January 2019; and
£40,000 on 16 January 2019.
2. Mr and Mrs P were convinced into sending these payments having been contacted by 
someone purporting to be an investment broker. This contact came after Mr and Mrs P 
had been searching for investment opportunities online and filled in a form. They were 
subsequently sent details of investment opportunities prior to making each payment.
3. I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr and Mrs P were the 
victims of a sophisticated scam. They used their security credentials to request the 
payments. So, although they did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr 
and Mrs P are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
4. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
5. It is common ground that there were fraud triggers in this case because HSBCs staff did 
in fact intervene. This was at the second payment for £10,000 on 21 September 2018. 
This was a fair point for the bank to have stepped in, rather than the first payment, given 
there had been transactions similar in nature earlier in the year. But by this point, the 
account usage had become more unusual. 
6. This was a scam that is well-known to banks  and on this occasion, Mr and Mrs P were 
questioned about the unusual activity on their account. But that questioning was limited 
to the subject of authorisation; the bank only asked if it was being carried out by Mr and 
Mrs P. There wasnt any questioning to establish that Mr and Mrs P werent falling victim 
to a scam or whether they were at risk of financial harm, which is what I believe ought to 
have happened. One of the later payments was also questioned, and in the same 
manner.
7. HSBC has said, in response to one of our requests for information, that the payments 
flagged, purely because they were to new beneficiaries and the payments were larger 
than normal. These are the kind of factors Id expect to see taken into account when 
payments are being made and that ought to prompt questioning not only of authority but 
also so the bank can be satisfied its customer isnt falling victim to a scam.
 
8. The evidence before us indicates that the staff did not ask Mr and Mrs P any appropriate 
follow-up or probing questions when they confirmed the payment details. Its not 
apparent that fraud and scams was discussed to any degree. Theres been no indication 
from the bank why it wouldnt have asked such questions, in line with its responsibilities.
9. This is a well-known scam. And even though sophisticated, if the bank staff had probed a 
bit moree.g. asking for the details about the investment  Im satisfied some significant 
concerns would have been raised and that ought to have led to a strong warning about 
the possibility of the investments being a scam. The bank had the opportunity to identify 
a suspiciously high rate of return on the investment given Mr and Mrs P were told theyd 
receive 11% back on the principle. Thats significantly higher than returns legitimately 
available elsewhere and something that ought to have been known to a professional 
banker.
10. Probing would also have revealed that Mr & Mrs P were investing through a broker. But 
that broker was not FCA regulated and thats something the bank ought to have flagged 
with Mr and Mrs P, along with an explanation as to why that would be concerning. HSBC 
didnt have to check the broker itself, it could have simply encouraged Mr and Mrs P to 
check themselves and explained the risks of proceeding with a non-regulated broker for 
what appeared to be a regulated activity.
 
11. Its clear this was a sophisticated scam. And that does make this a finely balanced case. 
Mr and Mrs P remained convinced the broker was providing legitimate investment 
opportunities long after the second payment was made. That was, at least in part, 
encouraged by the fact they did receive a payment of £500 which was meant to reflect a 
dividend payment, but which was, more likely than not, a device to encourage them to 
send more money. But had HSBC properly questioned Mr and Mrs P at the time of the second payment I believe a stern warning from it, based on the suspicious information 
about the investment it ought to have obtained, and a clear description of this type of 
scam, would have led Mr and Mrs P to act differently and they wouldnt have proceeded 
with the payment. It follows they wouldnt have then gone on to send the third and fourth 
payments either. 
12. In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it appears HSBC did follow up with the receiving banks 
appropriately. The delay in being able to answer if any funds remained looks to have 
come about as a result of slow response from those other banks. But I do find HSBC 
could have kept Mr and Mrs P better informed, a point recognised by HSBC and which 
has led to it offering £200 in compensation. I believe that to be a fair and reasonable 
payment for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr and Mrs P as a result.
13. I have also considered whether Mr and Mrs P should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, Mr and Mrs P were still totally in the dark and simply did not 
appreciate what they were doing or the consequences of their actions. They thought they 
were making payments for legitimate investments. I am satisfied there was no 
contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr and Mrs P were simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial 
matters; Mr and Mrs P were laypersons.
 
14. In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and 
Mrs P for the loss suffered from the second payment onward, without any reduction, 
together with interest to compensate them for being deprived of the money lost.  Mr and 
Mrs P might well have used the money to fund a different investment. But its not 
possible to tell what that might have been or any rate of return. I therefore find it would 
be fair for interest to be calculated at the rate applicable to the account from which the 
money came. That account is held with a different bank and Mr and Mrs P have let us 
know that the interest rates applicable over time are:
September 2018 to 31 March 2019 - 1.45%
1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020 - 1.42%
1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021 - 0.7%
15. The interest award should be applied from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
  
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mr and Mrs P £70,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the account rates set out above, from the date of loss to 
the date of refund1.
 
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr and Mrs P a tax 
deduction certificate so they can claim it back from HMRC as appropriate.Pay Mr and Mrs P £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman