DRN-2213889
The complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy added to Mrs Ds account in 1995, when she 
took out the card in a store.
I sent Mrs D and AXA a provisional decision on 16 September 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im planning to uphold Mrs Ds complaint, because Im not 
persuaded that she was given a fair choice about buying PPI.
Mrs Ds store card application had a section for PPI, which did offer the option to take out 
the policy or turn it down. It looks like Mrs D ticked the option to turn down PPI. This was 
then crossed out, and the box to buy PPI was ticked instead.
There may be a good reason why this happened  for instance, it could be that the change 
was made with Mrs Ds agreement. But Id consider it good practice to get the customer to 
initial or sign any such corrections to make it clear that the corrections were made with 
their permission. And that hasnt been done here. So I cant rule out the possibility that 
Mrs D signed the form thinking shed turned down PPI, and that it was changed after the 
fact without her consent.
Indeed, Mrs D explained that she was not aware the PPI had been added here. This would 
fit with it being added without her permission.
Taking everything into account, I cant be reasonably satisfied that Mrs D was given a fair 
choice about buying PPI here, nor that she actually chose to take it out. And so I currently 
think her complaint should be upheld.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. But both sides confirmed that 
they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think the case should be upheld.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs D would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs D wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs D what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct AXA France IARD to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman