DRN-4440873
The complaint
Mr N and Mr O complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy for damage caused by subsidence.
Mr N has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill mostly refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr N bought his property in 2012. In October 2022, he noticed cracking to the 
conservatory and got in touch with RSA about it.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster, C, who inspected the damage and carried out 
investigations. It said the damage had been caused by subsidence as a result of 
nearby vegetation. It recommended steps to stabilise the conservatory, including 
removing vegetation from Mr Ns and a neighbours property, and set out a timeline 
for repairs.
In June 2023, C said the claim would be declined because the conservatory 
foundation wasnt deep enough to take into account the impact of nearby vegetation. 
It said they were 650mm deep, but this didnt comply with the Building Regulations in 
place at the time it was built, which required a minimum depth of up to 1,000mm.
Mr N didnt think this was fair. He made a number of points, in summary:
oThe conservatory had stood, problem free, for around twenty years.
oNo concerns were raised about it when he bought the property.
oThe conservatory was exempt from Building Regulation.
oHis vegetation was younger than the conservatory, so it couldnt have been 
factored into the foundation design.
oWhilst a neighbours Oak tree may have been older than the conservatory, C 
hadnt said it was the cause of subsidence.
oThe claim had been poorly handled  it had taken too long, communication 
had been poor, and C had accepted it before reversing its position and 
declining it. All this had had a negative impact on Mr N and particularly Mr O 
who suffers from a medical condition exacerbated by stress and anxiety. Hed 
recently been signed off work and Mr N thought the claim experience had 
contributed to that.
RSA noted the conservatory was exempt from Regulation but nonetheless repeated 
Cs reference to the Regulations and said the claim was rightly declined. It accepted 
the claim handling had been poor and offered £500 compensation.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. As RSA had accepted the 
conservatory was exempt from Regulation, and bearing in mind the amount of time it 
had stood prior to damage, she said RSA should accept the claim. She said the £500 
compensation RSA had offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
RSA didnt agree with our investigator and raised a number of new points. It said the 
nature of the heating system meant the conservatory was subject to Building 
Regulation after all. And it highlighted guidance in various British Standards 
documents it thought showed the foundation wasnt deep enough.
Mr N thought additional compensation would more appropriately reflect the impact on 
Mr O. And he said he paid £120 to follow RSAs recommendation to remove 
vegetation on his property thought to be causing the subsidence problem.
Our investigator asked RSA to pay Mr N for the vegetation removal and said her 
other recommendations remained the same.
An agreement wasnt reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the property caused by subsidence  but not damage 
caused by poor or faulty design.
There seems to be no doubt the conservatory has been damaged by subsidence as 
a result of nearby vegetation. RSA has declined the claim because it says the 
foundation design was poor or faulty. The onus is on RSA to show thats the case 
and it would be fair to decline the claim for this reason.
C carried out a site investigation which showed the conservatory foundation is 
650mm deep and built on shrinkable clay. Its not known exactly when the 
conservatory was added to the main house, but 2000-2005 has been estimated.
RSAs reasoning has changed over time. Initially it relied on Building Regulations to 
explain why it thought the foundation design was faulty. When Mr N pointed out the 
conservatory was exempt from them, it agreed  but continued to rely on them. After 
our investigator said the complaint should be upheld, RSA then said Regulations did 
apply due to the nature of the heating system. It also introduced new points by 
referring to British Standards. At various times its mentioned the guidelines used by 
a builder of new homes, N, although I dont think its set out what foundation depth 
Ns guidelines would have suggested. Ill look at each of these points in turn.
The relevant version of the Regulations sets out exemptions  and the nature of the 
heating system isnt mentioned. The part RSA has pointed to is under the definition 
of building work  but that entire part remains subject to the exemptions. Overall, 
that means RSA hasnt persuaded me that Building Regulations applied to the 
conservatory when it was built. And therefore they didnt need to be complied with.
RSA has also referred to the guidelines used by N, a builder of new homes. Ns 
guidance only applies when construction is under the supervision of N as part of a 
new home. That wasnt the case here. Whilst some builders and designers may turn 
to Ns guidelines, I dont think that means all builders and designers are required to. Put simply, the conservatory didnt need to comply with Ns guidelines and so I dont 
think it would be fair to hold it to those guidelines.
However, Id still expect the conservatory to be built to an appropriate standard, such 
that it was likely to stand the test of time. To do this, the builder should have taken 
into account the best practice of the time and the specific site conditions to make a 
judgement call about the design of the foundation  including any vegetation likely to 
have an impact on the structure then or in the future. Ill consider the evidence RSA 
has provided to support its view the foundation design was poor or faulty.
RSA originally pointed to the Regulations, despite them not applying. Its quoted a 
part which says, in summary, the building should be constructed so that ground 
movement caused by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. Even if Regulations 
applied, Im not persuaded taking it as literally as RSA has suggested would produce 
a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused 
by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was inadequate and the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy. The part of the Regulations RSA has quoted is a broad aim, 
followed by more specific information about how to achieve it.
C looked to some of that specific information. It said a minimum foundation depth of 
750 to 1,000mm was required depending on how shrinkable the clay soil is. 
However, this range of depths wasnt specified in the Regulations until the 2013 
version, so its not relevant. The 2004 version simply recommended a minimum of 
750mm  and prior to that no minimum was set out. So, depending on exactly when 
the conservatory was built, Regulation set out no minimum or 750mm, regardless of 
how shrinkable the clay soil is.
So, if the conservatory was built prior to 2004, RSA hasnt shown it failed to meet 
Regulation. And if it was built in 2004 or 2005, its depth of 650mm wasnt far from 
the 750mm minimum set out  despite being exempt.
RSA has introduced new points late in the process. Thats very disappointing  it had 
eight weeks in which to investigate Mr Ns complaint and provide a thorough 
response. So I wouldnt expect it to raise new points after a complaint has been 
referred to this Service and our investigator has given their opinion. Nonetheless, Im 
required to consider the points its made.
In summary, it pointed to two sets of British Standards which it thinks supports its 
view the foundation design was faulty. It also said it wasnt the role of insurers to 
cover the inevitable consequences of design failures and it was entitled to rely on the 
policy term for poor or faulty design  despite this Service trying to circumvent it.
Let me be clear  this Service is independent and impartial. Its role is not to seek to 
circumvent any policy terms. Its to consider the merits of a complaint, taking into 
account, amongst other things, the policy terms, the evidence provided by both 
parties, and what it considers to be fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of that complaint.
The British Standards RSA has pointed to largely repeat the point I accepted above  
that the site specific conditions, including significant vegetation, are to be considered 
when designing a foundation. In addition, one Standard says that a foundation in clay 
should be built to at least 900mm where vegetation is nearby. Another notes 
guidance on foundation depths is given by N. Ill consider these points.Im satisfied the Standards represent independent best practice of the time. Clearly 
the foundation doesnt meet the minimum depth set out, so arguably its design is 
poor or faulty. But Im not satisfied the damage has been caused by this.
C noted the nearby Oak tree was older than the conservatory, so the foundation 
ought to have been designed to take it into account. I agree it should have been a 
factor. But here, Oak roots werent found beneath the foundation, and it hasnt been 
recommended for removal. So the conservatory doesnt seem to have been affected 
by the Oak tree.
The vegetation the arborist recommended for removal has been described as similar 
age to property or younger than property, so its not clear that either area of 
vegetation was on the site at the time of construction  and therefore couldnt have 
been factored in by the builder.
The second Standard does refer to Ns guidelines  but I dont think it goes so far as 
to say they must be followed or that theyre effectively the Standards to follow. So I 
dont consider that the builder was required to follow Ns guidelines.
I also take into account the age of the conservatory. It seems likely to have been 
around twenty years old at the time of the damage and I havent seen anything to 
suggest it had suffered damage previously. A structure which has stood problem free 
for twenty years doesnt strike me as one which has been poorly designed.
Even if I was satisfied RSA had shown the damage was caused by poor or faulty 
foundation design, I would also have to consider whether it would be fair for RSA to 
decline the claim for this reason.
Mr N bought the house with the conservatory in place. As it was exempt from 
Regulation, there would have been no Building Control certificate to show it was built 
to an appropriate standard. He had a pre-purchase survey carried out which noted 
the conservatory to be satisfactory condition, aside from non-structural issues. So I 
think he took the steps he reasonably could have done to ensure the conservatory 
was likely to have been built to an appropriate standard. In these circumstances, Im 
not satisfied it would be fair to decline the claim.
Overall, for the reasons given, I havent been persuaded the damage was caused by 
poor or faulty design  or, even if it was, that it would be fair for RSA to decline the 
claim in these circumstances. To put things right, it should accept the claim, subject 
to the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr N has removed the vegetation on his property, so I think RSA should reimburse 
him for that. It will then need to consider how to progress and settle the claim in a 
way that provides an effective and lasting solution to the subsidence problem.
Part of Mr Ns complaint is about the way the claim was handled. The key points 
being the timescale, communication, and declining the claim after earlier accepting it. 
RSA has conceded it handled the claim poorly, so I dont think that point is in dispute. 
The question for me is whether the £500 compensation RSA offered is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr N made the claim in October 2022 and by June 2023 it was declined. Thats a 
timescale of around nine months. During that time, C inspected the damage, carried 
out a site investigation, obtained arborist advice, considered the evidence, and began taking steps to stabilise the conservatory by having vegetation work carried out. All of 
that needed to be done to progress the claim effectively and it would inevitably have 
taken some time to do. In my experience, several months is common and reasonable 
for these steps. So the avoidable delay is likely in the order of a few months.
During that time, Mr N has seen the damage worsen, which will naturally have 
caused him concern. Its accepted he had to chase C numerous times and didnt 
always get clear or prompt replies. It must have been disappointing and frustrating for 
the claim to be accepted  and then later be declined.
Mr N has also highlighted the impact on Mr O. Its clear he suffers from a medical 
condition made worse by stress and anxiety, so I can appreciate how the 
circumstances described above may have had a greater impact on Mr O than others. 
He was signed off work earlier this year, so its possible the claim experience has 
contributed to that. However, I havent seen any medical evidence making such a 
link. So whilst I dont doubt Mr O has had a stressful experience, Im not satisfied it 
would be fair for me to hold RSA responsible for him taking time off work.
Overall, Im satisfied the £500 compensation RSA offered fairly reflected the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its poor claim handling. I understand it hasnt been 
paid yet  but if it has, RSA need not pay any further compensation at this time.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
Pay £120 for vegetation removal.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman