DRN-4108609
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he received from Steadfast Insurance Brokers Ltd (Steadfast) 
in relation to the transfer of benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme. 
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
What happened
Steadfast says that Mr S was introduced to it by his accountant, as he was looking to set up 
a personal pension and for advice about his retirement provisions. Documents from the time 
recorded that Mr S was 38, married and self-employed.
In July 1989, an application was made for a personal pension.
Steadfast said that, as part of setting up this pension, Mr S was interested in transferring the 
benefits he held in a DB scheme from a previous period of employment into his new pension 
arrangement. I can see that he provided authority for Steadfast to gather information from 
the DB scheme. And the DB scheme trustees provided a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) for Mr S benefits as well as some details of his existing benefits. This included that 
approximately a quarter of the CETV represent protected rights, at that time, in 1989, the 
pension entitlement at age 65 was valued at just under £30 per week, which included a 
guaranteed minimum pension of £6.38 per week and that Mr S could also potentially take a 
tax-free lump sum at age 65 of just over £4,500.
Steadfast says it met with Mr S on 14 August 1989 to discuss a potential transfer and has 
provided its file notes of that meeting. These notes confirmed that a personal pension had 
recently been started and a statement of benefits had been obtained from the DB scheme. 
The notes say that Steadfast explained what Mr S would be giving up by transferring, that 
the benefits, including a spouses pension, were guaranteed and that a personal pension 
was dependent on market fluctuations. Steadfast says it told Mr S he could be better off 
leaving his money where it was. But it says Mr S insisted on transferring as he wanted to 
keep his pension provisions together.
An application was subsequently completed to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme to 
his personal pension. And that transfer, for a total of £8,362.31 - of which £2,144.78 was 
protected rights, completed around January 1990.
Steadfast has provided a copy of a further application, completed later in 1990, to transfer 
another pension into the personal pension it had helped Mr S arrange. And that transfer 
completed in November 1990.
On 7 October 1997, Steadfast wrote to Mr S. The letter was titled Review of Personal 
Pensions and said the professional body Steadfast was a member of, the Insurance Brokers 
Registration Council (IBRC), had asked firms to review personal pensions it had arranged 
where funds had been transferred from an occupational pension scheme to ensure that 
appropriate advice had been given. The letter said Steadfast had reviewed Mr S case and 
had ensured that the advice complied with the statutory rules Steadfast was bound by. And 
said, in view of concerns in the media, Steadfast thought Mr S may wish to be reassured. It 
said if Mr S had any queries he could contact Steadfast.
Steadfast says it received no response to this letter.
Steadfast says that, around September 2000, Mr S contacted it as a change in his 
circumstances meant he had the opportunity to join his new employers DB scheme. 
Steadfast has provided a copy of a letter it sent Mr S at that time in which it said it 
recommended that he join the scheme as the benefits appeared potentially valuable. And it 
suggested he speak to the scheme to see if it would accept a transfer from his personal 
pension.
Mr S complained to Steadfast in May 2022, via his representative. He said hed been 
approached by Steadfast about taking advice and had put his trust in it. He said Steadfast 
had recommended a transfer, telling him hed receive much better returns through a 
personal pension and hadnt informed him of the benefits hed be giving up. So, he thought 
the advice was unsuitable based on his circumstances at the time.
Steadfast said it had advised against a transfer, so it didnt agree that unsuitable advice had 
been provided. It also said it thought the complaint had potentially been brought too late to 
be considered. This was because it said Mr S had received annual updates about his 
pension, had been invited to contact it about a review in 1997 and had been given advice 
about joining a different DB scheme in 2000. All of which it felt shouldve made Mr S aware 
of having reason to complain sooner.
Mr S asked our service to consider his complaint. His representative said it hadnt seen 
evidence of the invitation for a pension review and Mr S believed he had not received this. 
They also said Mr S only became aware of potentially having cause to complain when a 
friend recommended the representative to him.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought that the complaint had been 
made in time for our Service to consider. He didnt think the annual statements for the 
personal pension included information that ought to have made Mr S aware of having reason 
to complain. He felt the letter sent in 1997 had reassured Mr S that there was no problem, 
rather than inviting him for a review. So, he didnt think this ought to have prompted him to 
complain. And the recommendation in 2000 related to an entirely separate policy. So, he 
didnt think he could reasonably say Mr S ought to have complained sooner than he did.
Turning to the merits of the complaint, he didnt think it should be upheld. He noted that the 
requirements of Steadfast at the time were very different to those in place now. And overall, 
he was satisfied on balance that it had recommended against a transfer, but Mr S had 
decided to proceed in spite of this.
Steadfast said it still didnt think this was a complaint we should consider. Its legal 
representative responded on its behalf, arguing that the Limitation Act 1980 meant this was 
not a complaint that we could consider.
Mr S did not accept our Investigators findings on the merits of the matter. He said he had 
relied on the advice given by Steadfast and disagreed that hed insisted on a transfer. He 
also still felt that Steadfast hadnt done enough to explain everything to him that it shouldve. 
The Investigator was not inclined to change his opinion. As a result, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Can our service consider the complaint?
Steadfast has indicated that it still considers this is not a complaint that our service can 
consider and that it should be time-barred. So, Ill first consider whether we have jurisdiction 
to consider the matter.
Steadfasts representative argues the Limitation Act 1980 applies and so we can't consider 
this complaint. But this is incorrect. 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 established the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Under this Act, which gives us power to consider complaints, we are required to 
apply the rules of the scheme  the scheme being our scheme and the rules being the 
Dispute Resolutions rules set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
often referred to as the DISP rules. These rules set out the limits to what our service can and 
cant consider. I am entirely bound by these rules and cannot disregard them. And one of the 
things these rules cover is whether the complaint has been brought in time for us to 
consider. But there is nothing within the DISP time limit rules which requires us to apply the 
law, and so legal time limits, when determining our jurisdiction. We are only required to take 
the law into account when reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, Im satisfied the 
relevant consideration here is whether the complaint has been made in time in respect of the 
DISP rules.
DISP 2.8.2(R) says;
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits  was as a 
result of exceptional circumstances; or

(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint
Steadfast has indicated it does not give consent to our service considering this complaint.
The event being complained about is the advice given in 1989 around the transfer of benefits 
from Mr S DB scheme, with the transfer having completed in early 1990. Mr S didnt 
complain about this until 2022  clearly more than six years later. So, Im satisfied that the 
complaint has been brought too late in regard to the six-year part of the above rule.As a result, what I need to decide is whether the complaint was made more than three years 
after Mr S became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for 
complaint, and whether this gives him more time under the three-year rule.
Steadfast has said that Mr S received annual summaries of his personal pension, after the 
transfer. And has suggested this shouldve made him aware of having cause to complain. 
Ive been provided with copies of the summaries Mr S received between 1997 and 2000. But 
I dont think I can reasonably say these ought to have made him aware of having reason to 
complain about the advice he received. 
The summaries do give total values of the pension.  But these amounts significantly exceed 
the CETV of the DB scheme from 1989. So, to Mr S, wouldve indicated the pension had 
increased in value. The statements do indicate there are four parts to the pension  so the 
value is not solely derived from the DB transfer, as it also included contributions by Mr S and 
the separate transfer from late 1990. But given that the value of the pension was shown to 
be steadily rising, I dont think Mr S ought to have been aware from this information that he 
mightve had reason to complain about the transfer of his DB scheme benefits.
The summaries did also include projections of what benefits the pension fund might be able 
to provide in the future, dependent on the level of growth that was achieved. But again, 
those values exceeded those quoted in 1989 as the value of pension benefits the DB 
scheme would provide. It is true that the pension benefit values given in 1989 were the 
values at that point. And these wouldve been revalued in the time until retirement. But the 
1989 figures, outlining the guaranteed benefits at that point, are the only ones that I can see 
were potentially shared with Mr S, so wouldve been the only ones he could compare with, if 
he had in fact retained them. 
I cant see that the summaries contained anything else which suggested that Mr S mightve 
been worse off as a result of the transfer. And I havent seen anything to suggest summaries 
provided in different years contained any additional information. So, I dont think the receipt 
of these annual summaries meant Mr S ought to have been aware he mightve had cause to 
complain about the transfer.
Steadfast has also referred to a letter it sent to Mr S in 1997, about a review of the advice it 
provided.
In October 1994 the Pension Review was established by the Securities and Investments 
Board (SIB)  one of the principal regulators at the time. This was an industry wide review 
of pension business, particularly advice relating to moving occupational pension schemes, 
carried out by authorised firms between April 1988 and June 1994. And part of the review 
was that SIB regulated firms needed to write to customers that were potentially affected and 
ask if they wanted to take part in the review.
However, in the late 1980s the financial services industry was not all subject to a single 
regulator for the conduct of business, as it is today. There were a number of regulatory 
bodies whose members were permitted to carry out investment business, including advising 
on pensions. And Steadfast does not appear to have been regulated by SIB. Rather it was a 
member of the IBRC.
Steadfast has provided information to show that in September 1997 the IBRC instructed its 
members to review past advice relating to a transfer from an occupational pension. And that 
it provided guidance, and a checklist, to assist with that review. But what this means though 
is that the review Steadfast undertook was somewhat different to the industrywide Pension 
Review. And crucially, how this was communicated to Mr S appears to have been different 
as well. Ive seen a copy of the letter Mr S was sent. It explains that the IBRC had asked firms to 
review past business where funds were transferred from an occupational pension scheme to 
ensure appropriate advice had been received. But there was no mention of why this was 
being reviewed. There was no reference to the Pension Review or that there were concerns 
about potential industrywide mis-selling that had prompted that review. Rather it just said 
Steadfast had been asked to review its past business. The letter said it confirmed that 
Steadfast had reviewed Mr S file, based on IBRC guidance and had ensured that the advice 
was suitable. But again, there was no context. It simply told Mr S that there was nothing 
wrong. And it went on to say that Steadfast thought Mr S may have wished to be reassured. 
It then said if he had any queries, he could contact Steadfast. But this was not an invitation 
to a review nor did it ask him for any further information to assist with a review. Rather it 
simply said there was no problem and suggested that was the end of the matter.
I dont think this letter meant Mr S shouldve been aware of a potential reason to complain 
about the transfer of his DB scheme benefits. It didnt give any real context about why there 
might have been something wrong. And it instead said there wasnt anything wrong. Which 
I dont think Mr S had any reason or cause to question at that time. 
Steadfast has also referred to having told Mr S in 2000 that it recommended he join his new 
employers DB scheme because of the valuable benefits it offered. And that Mr S didnt raise 
any concerns at that time about the previous advice. 
The discussion in 2000 involved joining a DB scheme. And the previous transfer involved 
leaving one. But I dont think that was enough to say Mr S ought to have questioned what 
happened previously. Each pension scheme is different, providing different benefits. And this 
was an unrelated transaction over ten years after the initial transfer. I cant see that there 
was any information provided at that time that suggested the earlier transfer was 
questionable  indeed three years previously Steadfast had said there wasnt an issue with 
the advice provided.
So, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think any of the reasons Steadfast has put forward 
ought to have given Mr S reason to think he had cause to complain.
Ive also thought about whether there was anything else that ought to have prompted Mr S to 
complain. But I havent seen any other evidence or been made aware of any other 
information that leads me to think Mr S ought to have been aware of having reason to 
complain sooner than he did. As a result, in this specific case, I think what Mr S has said  
that he wasnt aware he mightve had cause to complain until he spoke to his representative 
 is reasonable. And as he complained within three years of that, I think this is a complaint 
that we can consider.
As a result, Ive gone on to consider the merits of the matter.
Did Steadfast act incorrectly when providing advice?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the 
advice was given. It isnt appropriate to apply todays regulations retrospectively. And its 
also worth noting that the investment climate today is very different to that which existed at 
the time of the advice here. So, I think its important to reiterate that Im looking at whether 
the actions of the adviser were, in my view, fair and reasonable at the time the advice was given  not if the recommendation was suitable based on what we now know and the rules 
that apply today. 
The two parties have given very different versions of events. And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Steadfast has said it was approached by Mr S, with the introduction made by his accountant, 
about setting up a pension. And it was while this pension was being established, Mr S asked 
about also transferring benefits from his previous pension to consolidate his retirement 
provisions. 
Mr S says Steadfast approached him offering advice about transferring the benefits from his 
DB scheme, told him a personal pension would give much better performance, and that it 
recommended the transfer. But he doesnt remember being given much detail or being 
treated as an insistent client. He has said separately that the adviser was a friend of a friend 
and that is how Steadfast approached him. But later, in response to the Investigators 
opinion, said his accountant did make the introduction. 
The transfer took place over 33 years ago. So, while Im mindful of what Mr S has said he 
recalls about the process, given the time that has passed I wouldnt expect him to remember 
the events clearly as memories can and often do fade  as I think is evidenced by the 
inconsistency in what hes said about how he first came to be in touch with Steadfast. And 
with that in mind, I think the documentary evidence from the time is likely to be a more 
accurate reflection of what happened. The documentary evidence available is limited. Which 
I dont think is unreasonable, given how long ago these events took place. But based on 
what is available, I think this supports what Steadfast has said.
The application form, to the relevant pension provider, for the self-employed personal 
pension that Steadfast set up on behalf of Mr S indicates this was completed in July 1989, 
before any application to transfer the benefits from the DB scheme was begun. Indicating 
that establishing the pension was not solely for the purpose of a transfer. And the annual 
pension summaries Ive seen confirm the pension was made up a several different plans. 
One of which being a self-employed plan, which was receiving regular pension contributions 
from Mr S. Given the information from the time recorded that he was self-employed and the 
nature of the pension established, on balance Im satisfied that the motivation for the original 
discussion between him a Steadfast was to establish a pension arrangement that suited his 
employment situation at the time which he could contribute to. And I think establishing this 
self-employed policy, which seems to have been appropriate to Mr S circumstances at the 
time, suggests Steadfast took reasonable steps to understand Mr S circumstances and 
requirements.
Ive also seen evidence that, after the DB scheme benefits were transferred to Mr S new 
pension, he also transferred benefits from another pension around November 1990. Which is 
again supported by the pension summary documents as these show the overall pension 
contained multiple transfer plans. I think this supports Steadfasts argument that Mr S 
motivation was to consolidate his pension benefits together once the personal pension was 
established.
The parties also disagree about what advice was given about the DB scheme. Steadfast 
says it didnt recommend a transfer but that Mr S insisted. Whereas Mr S says Steadfast 
said he should transfer without discussing his existing benefits or the relevant risks.
I havent been provided a copy of a written suitability report or letter of recommendation. And I understand one was not produced  because Steadfast says it didnt recommend a 
transfer. It also wasnt a requirement at the time that a written recommendation be produced. 
So, I dont think the lack of one here means Steadfast has done something wrong. Steadfast 
has though provided two notes, recording the meeting that it held with Mr S on 
14 August 1989, when the DB scheme benefits were discussed.
The notes say that Mr S asked Steadfast to look into his DB scheme benefits as it had 
established the personal pension for him. Which, as Ive already explained above appears to 
be supported by the evidence Ive seen. 
The note goes on to say a benefit statement was obtained from the DB scheme trustees and 
discussed and that Steadfast thought the benefits, including the spouses benefit, were 
good. Mr S says that the existing benefits werent made clear to him. Ive seen a copy of the 
transfer value quotation the DB scheme trustees provided. This was dated almost a month 
before the meeting to discuss the DB scheme benefits is recorded as having taken place. 
The document included information about the benefits Mr S was already entitled to under the 
scheme. This document was addressed to Mr S. So, in my view, was likely first provided to 
him and then shared by him with Steadfast. And given he was in receipt of the document, 
I think its unlikely that this wasnt discussed during the meeting with Steadfast.
Steadfast says it noted that a personal pension would be subject to market fluctuations and 
annuity rates and that Mr S could be better off leaving the benefits where they were. But 
Mr S insisted on moving the benefits to have all of his arrangements together, so an 
application form was then completed. And again, as Ive explained above, I think 
consolidating his benefits seems to have been a motivation for Mr S.
Taking all of this into account, on balance, I think the notes Steadfast have been able to 
provide from the time about the advice it says was given are likely a more accurate reflection 
of what took place than Mr S recollections more than 30 years after the event. So, again on 
balance, I think its likely that Steadfast recommended that Mr S should not transfer his DB 
scheme benefits. But, after discussing the relevant risks and satisfying itself that Mr S 
understood these  which I think on balance did likely form part of the discussion, given this 
was recorded in the meeting notes and, for the reasons Ive explained, I believe these are 
likely to be an accurate reflection of what happened  Mr S chose to proceed despite this 
advice. And I think he likely knew at the time he was proceeding against advice, even if he 
now, understandably, doesnt recall this.
I dont think Steadfast was wrong to facilitate the transfer on Mr S instruction. There werent 
any requirements of it at the time in regards to a specific insistent client process, and it was 
allowed, under the rules at the time, to process an application on this basis.
So, taking everything into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, 
I dont think Steadfast has acted unfairly when it provided advice here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman