DRN-2970047
The complaint
Mr C complains that LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) continued to take payments for a 
car he was financing through them even though the car wasnt available to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I was sorry to hear about the problems Mr C experienced and can understand his frustration 
that during the pandemic restrictions he wasnt able to use his car when there were delays 
getting it fixed. I understand that these delays also meant the car he was hiring was returned 
with a lower mileage than expected. Whilst I understand Mr Cs concerns Im afraid I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask LeasePlan to put things right for him. Ill explain why.
LeasePlan are only responsible for the quality of the car at the point it is supplied. The 
relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs in the first six months we are to assume the 
fault was there when the car was supplied, unless the business can demonstrate otherwise. 
But as Mr Cs car broke down 21 months after inception, legislation puts the onus on him to 
demonstrate the fault was there from the beginning. Mr C has explained that there are 
numerous cases on line of similar issues with his model of car. But I dont think hes provided 
sufficient evidence that his car was affected by a manufacturing fault. If water was leaking 
into his car at the point of supply Id expect Mr C to have complained about it earlier and, 
even if the fault was developing at the point the car was supplied, I think it would have been 
likely to have been noticed earlier. 
So, Im not persuaded that this car was of unsatisfactory quality. Thats an important finding 
as it means it wasnt LeasePlans responsibility to put things right and it was for Mr C to 
manage the repair. Its very unfortunate that the car couldnt be repaired swiftly, and I 
understand Mr C feels it was unfair for him to have to pay for a car he didnt have access to. 
But I think it would be even more unreasonable to expect LeasePlan to reduce payments on 
the agreement for an issue that wasnt their responsibility. It wouldnt, for instance, be fair to 
tell LeasePlan to reduce the debt on the agreement because Mr C was ill and unable to drive 
the car.
Mr C says he returned the car with lower than expected mileage as a result of the extended 
repair. He says LeasePlan should compensate him for the loss of mileage as they are likely 
to have benefitted from an increased sales price at auction. But theres nothing in the finance 
agreement that provides for a reduction in payments if a car is returned with lower than 
contracted mileage. So, it wouldnt be fair to say LeasePlan have been unreasonable when 
refusing to provide any discount or refund.
The finance agreement explained that Mr C must keep the car insured at all times, so it was 
always necessary to insure the car even if it was being repaired. In those circumstances Im 
afraid I dont think it would be fair to ask LeasePlan to refund the insurance costs Mr C 
incurred whilst his car was at the garage. 
And, overall, I am not persuaded that LeasePlan need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman