DRN-3096340
The complaint
Mrs T complains that J D Williams & Company Limited charged her too much on her credit 
account, and failed to credit some of her payments to the account.
What happened
Mrs T opened a catalogue shopping account with JD Williams in 2016. She made her last 
purchase in September 2018. In 2020 she complained that despite having continued to 
make payments, the total of which by then exceeded £700, she still had a significant balance 
outstanding, and she said JD Williams must be overcharging her. She also complained that 
she had made some payments which had not in fact been credited to her account. In 
September 2020 she stopped making payments. When JD Williams did not uphold her 
complaint, she brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said the charges had been properly 
charged in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He told her he had compared 
her own list of payments with JD Williamss list and had only found two payments on her list 
which were not on JD Williamss. But he had seen no evidence to show that those two 
payments had been made at all. He told Mrs T he would consider any new evidence she 
could provide, but she said she had no more to give. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will briefly explain why.
Mrs T provided us with 54 pages of bank statements covering the years 2018 and 2019. The 
two payments on her own list of payments which she says she made to JD Williams, and 
which our investigator was unable to find on JD Williamss list, were a payment of £66 on 22 
July 2019, and a payment of £25 on 22 January 2020. I obviously cannot check the 2020 
payment on her bank statements, but I did find the 2019 payment there, and it is not a 
payment to JD Williams; it was made to a third party. So there is no evidence that JD 
Williams failed to credit any of Mrs Ts payments to her account. (It may be that the 
explanation for the 2020 payment is the same, but I dont need to make a finding about that.)
I have reviewed Mrs Ts account history, and also a statement JD Williams sent her about 
her account in March 2017. That statement says she had failed to make her minimum 
payment, and so a £12 late payment fee had been charged, as well as some interest. That 
appears to be typical. The account history shows that she regularly missed payments or 
made them late, and thereby incurred charges and interest, which sometimes increased her 
outstanding balance by more than the amount her last payment had decreased it by.
In January 2020, JD Williams sent Mrs T a letter telling her that during the previous 18 
months she had paid more in interest and charges than she had paid towards her principal 
balance. It advised her to increase her payments, as this would reduce her balance more 
quickly. But she does not appear to have done so. That may not necessarily have been 
possible for her, but if she is (or was at the time) in financial difficulties and so unable to pay 
more, then the onus is on her to tell JD Williams that, so that it can take steps to help her (for 
example, by suspending interest and charges for a while, or by giving her a payment 
holiday). Otherwise, it was and still is entitled to continue to charge her fees and interest.
I have seen nothing which suggests that the fees and interest have been charged 
incorrectly, or that the outstanding balance is incorrect. I recognise that Mrs T feels strongly 
that she has paid a lot of money, and that there was still a large outstanding balance two 
years after her last purchase. But the total of all the payments she has made to date is £836, 
whereas the total of all her purchases (including delivery charges, and taking into account 
discounts and returns) is £1,070.65. So even if no interest and no fees had ever been 
charged, she still would not yet have repaid what she has spent on the account.
I must caution Mrs T that the fact that she has not made any payments since September 
2020 is being reported to her credit file, which will make it harder for her to obtain credit 
elsewhere. If she can afford to resume making payments, then she should do so, and if she 
cannot, then she should contact JD Williams and ask what it can do to help her. They have a 
duty to treat customers who are in financial difficulty (once they know that) positively and 
sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021. But if we do not hear from her, then we will 
presume that she rejects it. We will not engage in any further discussion of the merits of this 
complaint.  
Richard Wood
Ombudsman