DRN-2435634
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him the wrong information about the fees 
and exchange rate that would be used when he transferred his savings from a bank account 
abroad.
What happened
Mr M transferred his savings from his account in another country to his current account with 
Barclays in two separate transactions. Before he did this, hed emailed Barclays to find out 
what fees he would be charged and what rate would be used for the exchange into sterling. 
He was told that he wouldnt be charged any fees and the exchange rate would be indicated 
on Barclays website or its FX powered by Barclays app. But he found he was charged a £6 
fee for each transaction, and the exchange rate was different to what the app had shown. 
Mr M complained. He believed this wrong information had caused him to incur a loss of 
£1,639.27 and said Barclays should reimburse him for this. He said that if hed been given 
the right information, he would have used an alternative method to transfer his money that 
didnt charge a margin on the foreign exchange.
 
Barclays said that it had explained that it no longer applies spot rates and an exact rate 
couldnt be provided as this varies throughout the day. It said that its terms and conditions 
said that the rates it shows were indicative and that potentially a rate that differs from the 
mid-market rate could apply. It apologised that Mr M had been given the wrong information 
that he wouldnt be charged for receiving the transfers. It offered to pay Mr M £100 by way of 
an apology for this, along with a refund of the £12 of fees that hed been charged. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Barclays had told Mr M that he could keep up-to-date with the exchange rates on 
the FX powered by Barclays app and that it no longer applied spot rates. It told him that the 
exchange rate would depend on the date the payment reached his account because it 
varied. 
The investigator said that the terms of the FX powered by Barclays app said that the rates it 
provides are mid-market rates  the mid-point between buy and sell rates, and that a 
transaction may get a significantly different rate. So the investigator didnt think Barclays 
should be held responsible for the difference in exchange rates.
She said that Barclays may have mis-understood that Mr M was asking about adding 
margins in his email, and so didnt tell him about this in its response. But she said the terms 
and conditions for electronic payments said: Well convert the payment into the currency of 
your account using an exchange rate, made up of a reference exchange rate (which 
changes to reflect currency market movements), to which we may add a margin.
The investigator said that Barclays had accepted that Mr M was given the wrong information 
about the charges for international transfers, and it had offered to refund the two £6 fees and 
pay Mr M £100 for the inconvenience he was caused. The investigator thought this offer was 
fair. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that investigator had got some of the 
facts wrong, including the exchange rate applied on one of the transfers. He said Barclays 
said the rate on the FX powered by Barclays app would apply, which he believes is the spot 
rate. He feels he followed Barclays advice exactly. He has been working in finance for some 
time and understands how foreign exchange works. He says he uses a number of different 
platforms for exchanging currency, and different businesses apply different fees and 
charges. The reason he contacted Barclays was because he wanted to ask whether there 
would there be any fees.
He said what bothers him is that he was told there would be no fees and he would get the 
rate on the app, which is clear to him that this is the spot rate. He also said he thinks the 
spread is relative to the size of the transfer, this is against what he was told in the email. 
Mr M said he wouldve used an alternative method to make the transfer if hed been told 
Barclays would apply a spread. 
Mr M said he feels that he was misguided. He said that at no point was the rate he got 
shown on the app that day. He said the app shows the spot rate, which never went to the 
rates applied to his transfers. He feels he asked Barclays clear questions and the answers 
gave him confidence that the information he was given was correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been concerning and frustrating for Mr M to have specifically 
looked to clarify information with Barclays before he went ahead with the transfer from his 
foreign bank account. I do understand his knowledge and experience of such matters, and 
why he will have wanted to make sure he had the right information about the charges and 
rates Barclays would use for his transfer into his account.
Ive reviewed the email exchange between Barclays and Mr M about this, as I feel this is 
central to Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M explained that he would shortly be requesting a transfer from his foreign bank account 
into his Barclays account, and asked what rate and costs would be applied if the incoming 
payment was in the foreign currency compared with sterling. 
And I agree that I dont think Barclays response fully answered his questions, but part of the 
response was there are no fees or charges applied to a payment being made into your 
account.
Mr M replied that he was asking about foreign exchange fees, to which Barclays responded 
that it would depend on the day that the payment reached his account  the rate of 
exchange would apply and, as these varied day to day, an exact rate couldnt be given. 
Mr M then said that he understood the spot rate would vary but asked whether Barclays 
imposes a spread on the spot exchange rate, and if so by how many base points (BPS); and 
whether Barclays imposes a fix fee for the currency exchange and how much this was. 
Barclays replied to say: We dont charge any fees for payments coming into your account, 
there are no fixed fees for the currency exchange and we no longer apply spot rates to 
payments.Barclays has accepted that the information Mr M was told about the fees was wrong, as 
there is a £6 charge. To put this right, it has offered to refund the two amounts of £6 Mr M 
was charged. 
But the main part of Mr Ms complaint is about the difference in the exchange rate applied to 
his transfers compared with what was shown on the app. 
Ive thought about what hes said, and Ive listened to the recording of his discussion with the 
investigator where he explained his points. And I can understand his reasons for believing 
that Barclays uses a spot rate for its foreign exchange, when this is what he feels was shown 
on the app when he checked it.
However, Ive also reviewed the information on the app which says that: The rates you get 
from the FX powered by Barclays app are mid-market rates. This is the mid-point between 
buy and sell rates. You might get a significantly different rate if you make a transaction and 
youll need to take into account any related charges or fees.
Barclays confirmed to Mr M that it no longer uses a spot rate (or an immediate rate) for a 
foreign exchange. And although Mr M was referred to the app to keep up to date with 
Barclays exchange rates, I dont think this in itself is confirmation that the rate on the app is 
the rate the customer would get when the information on the app specifically says that the 
rates shown were mid-market rates, and that potentially a different rate could be received on 
a transaction. 
I appreciate Mr Ms point that he believes the rate shown on the app to be the spot rate but, 
as I understand it, the rates shown are not buy and sell rates. They are mid-market rates 
taken from Barclays electronic FX trading platform to give an indication of the exchange 
rates at the time.
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ms Barclays account. In relation to 
electronic payments; these say: 
Money transferred into your account electronically in sterling will be available for you to use 
immediately. If you make an electronic payment in euros into your sterling or euro account, 
the money will be available for you to use immediately. For all other foreign electronic
payments, we can tell you when they will be available for you to use if you ask us.  
Well convert the payment into the currency of your account using an exchange rate, made 
up of a reference exchange rate (which changes to reflect currency market movements), to 
which we may add a margin. You can ask us for an indication of the rate at any time, but as
the exchange rate changes to reflect currency market movements, we wont be able to tell 
you the actual rate until we receive the payment. You can find our current exchange rate by 
calling us or asking in branch. 
We may also charge for receiving the payment  the charges are set out in the Tariff. If we 
receive an international payment into your account that isnt made using the SEPA scheme, 
you agree we can deduct our charges from the amount of the payment before we add it
to your account. Youll find the charge for this in the Tariff.Overall, while I agree that the information Barclays gave Mr M in response to his email 
couldve been clearer and more specific to the questions he asked, aside from the incorrect 
confirmation that there would be no charges, I dont think the information it gave about the 
exchange rate that would apply to his transfer was wrong. I say this because Mr M was 
referred to the FX powered by Barclays app, and I think this app makes it clear that the rate 
shown is indicative. I dont think he was specifically told that the rate shown in the app would 
be the rate he would get, either through the email exchange or in the information the app 
provides.
Putting things right
Barclays has offered to refund the £12 charge Mr M incurred for the transfers, and a further 
£100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Taking everything into 
account, I think that represents a fair resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr M a total of £112 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays should pay Mr M £112. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman