DRN-1922655
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) provided 
advice in a stock but later said that this advice had been wrong. The value of the investment 
has fallen resulting in financial disadvantage to him.
What happened
Mr W bought shares in a company that I will call Company A in 2013 to the value of £5,000. 
Mr W says that he bought these shares based on advice that he received from HL. The price 
of shares in Company A has since fallen and Mr W feels that he was given poor advice.
Mr W says that he called HL to ask its opinion about a stock that he wished to invest in. He 
says HL initially said that it was a good stock to buy but then he received a call from HL to 
say that it wasnt a good stock to buy.
Mr W complained to HL in 2019 and it investigated his complaint but it found no evidence 
that Mr W was provided with advice. In addition, it could find no evidence of calls to and from 
Mr W and rejected his complaint.
Mr W complained to the service and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint.  The 
investigator did not think that HL had done anything wrong and agreed with the business and 
did not uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I wont be upholding the complaint.
Mr W says in his submission to the service that he called HL with an expectation that he 
could buy an opinion from them. This type of service would typically be classed as an 
advisory service however HL says that the service that Mr W used to purchase his shares 
was an execution only service. It is worth explaining the difference between these services.
In an execution only service, no advice is provided to the client and the business acts only 
on instructions from the client. The decision to buy or sell lies with the client.
In an advisory service, advice is given to the client depending on their specific financial 
requirements. A suitability assessment is undertaken to understand the clients financial 
background and their objectives. A suitability report is then prepared outlining what advice is 
offered and the reasons for any recommendation. This is a regulatory requirement and the 
report is sent out to the client. The client can then decide to act on the recommendation.
Mr W has not been able to provide any other evidence that any suitability assessment took 
place or that a suitability report was sent to him. Having considered this, I think that on 
balance Mr W was using an execution only service and there was no advice provided to him.
Mr W says that a different member of staff at HL called him back to say that the initial advice 
was wrong and that the stock was not a good stock to buy. Our investigator has asked Mr W 
if he has any record of these phone calls. Mr W has said that given the time period, his 
telephone provider cant produce any record of these calls and they are only retained for a 
period of 2 years.
HL has said in its submission that  it has searched its files but cant locate any record of Mr 
W calling or any outbound call made to Mr W. Mr W says that the outbound call from HL was 
from a mobile and this is perhaps why this call cant be located. I think that on the balance of 
probability it is unlikely that HL would call clients from a mobile rather than a landline as 
financial businesses tend to have systems in place to record calls for audit purposes. 
Sometimes calls cant be located but I think that on balance, it is unlikely that HL made any 
outbound call to Mr W from a mobile line.
Mr Ws complaint is that HL provided him with advice and then went back on this original 
advice. From what I have seen in submissions to the service I am unable to see any 
sufficient persuasive evidence that advice was given to Mr W. In HLs execution only terms 
and conditions it says:
We will not provide, and you do not expect, personal financial advice about the suitability of 
an account or the investments you hold within it unless you have received a written report 
from one of our financial practitioners.
Mr W cannot provide evidence of this report. The other issue that I have to consider is 
whether HL provided Mr W with any advice in a telephone call. Neither Mr W or HL can 
provide any evidence of this call taking place. I think that on the balance of probability, it is 
unlikely that HL would give such advice on a telephone call as  it has a regulatory 
requirement to perform a suitability assessment of the client and provide a written report 
outlining why  it has made any recommendations.
Mr W has provided a document in his submission which he says supports his complaint 
about advice being provided. I have looked at this document but I dont agree that this 
document provides any personal recommendation to Mr W by HL.  The document also has a 
warning on it stating:
"This email is intended as general information only and does not constitute a personal 
recommendation to invest."
I think that the document is a price alert automatically generated when the price of a stock 
reaches a pre-determined limit. These alerts are typically set by the client to give them a 
warning that a stock that they are watching or holding reaches a specific price. This can act 
as a trigger for the client to take a course of action such as to buy or sell the stock. 
In summary, Mr W has been unable to provide sufficient evidence that advice was provided 
by HL. On balance Ive concluded that the shares were purchased using HLs execution only 
service. Any investment decisions using this service are down to the client and HL cant be 
held liable for any fall in the value of investments. I do not think that the business has done 
anything wrong and it has acted in accordance with the terms of the service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman