DRN-3659230
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) has handled a legal expenses insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Es legal expenses cover is included within a Home Insurance policy. He had cause to 
seek cover under the policy after he alleged a neighbour had damaged his property including 
the land, trespassed and erected a boundary inside the curtilage of his boundary. 
NFU instructed panel solicitors to advise on the prospects of success for Mr Es proposed 
claim. The solicitors advised that prospects were less than 51%, which was required under 
the policy terms, and so NFU didnt agree to offer Mr E cover to pursue his claim against his 
neighbour.
Mr Es unhappy about several things, the main issues being:
- He obtained an experts report as to the position of the boundary at his own cost as 
directed by the solicitors, but it wasnt accepted
- He was told he had to use a panel solicitor
- The panel solicitor told him he had a lot of land so losing a small bit shouldnt be a 
problem
Initially, our investigator thought NFU should obtain a second prospects assessment from a 
different firm of solicitors. On reflection though it became apparent to her that panel solicitors 
had reconsidered prospects of success on receiving the experts report as to the position of 
the boundary. And as this had been done, she thought it was reasonable that NFU relied on 
the legal advice that the required threshold for prospects of success hadnt been met.
The investigator said Mr E was entitled to obtain his own legal opinion at his own cost as to 
the prospects of success which shed expect NFU to consider. And she asked NFU to 
request from the panel solicitors what evidence was needed from the surveyor expert and 
pass that to Mr E.
Several of Mr Es further complaint points are about the conduct of the solicitor and the 
investigator explained that the Legal Ombudsman was the appropriate service to look into 
issues against the solicitor and she understood Mr E had raised a complaint with that 
Ombudsman scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like every legal expenses policy Ive seen, Mr Es requires a proposed claim to have 
reasonable prospects of success. This is defined in the policy, but in summary, for civil 
cases, it means the prospects that Mr E will recover losses, damages or other legal remedy 
must be at least 51%. And there is cover for property protection provided that Mr E must 
have established the legal ownership or right to the land that is the subject of the dispute.
NFU is not a legal expert and so its wholly reasonable that it seeks a legal opinion on the 
prospects of Mr Es proposed claim being 51% or more. Indeed, its standard insurance 
industry practice that legal expenses insurers have an appointed panel of solicitors who 
routinely provide prospects of assessment. 
Whats apparent from the information weve been sent by the parties is that the boundary 
dispute, damage to land and trespass are all contingent on the position of the boundary of 
Mr Es property. As an aside, issues to do with the Mr Es buildings have been addressed 
either under criminal law or the Home insurance policy and fall outside the remit of this 
decision. 
The solicitors have said the prospects of success fall below the policy threshold of 51% 
because the boundary line needs to be established legally before it can assess whether the 
neighbour damaged Mr Es land, caused a nuisance or trespassed. The policy permits NFU 
to require Mr E to obtain an experts opinion at his expense where thats considered 
appropriate. 
Ive seen correspondence from the solicitor to Mr E in November and December 2021 
explaining some of the problems in proving the location of the boundary line. The solicitor 
explained the importance of the root conveyancing document as well as the fact that an 
expert report might not be enough on its own. The solicitor explained that hed spoken with 
Mr Es expert after the report had been issued and the expert confirmed there were no 
physical features to work off (except a garage) and no physical evidence to confirm where 
the boundary is. The land registry plans couldnt be relied on as evidence of the legal 
boundary. 
Based on the report and conversation with the expert, the solicitor said he couldnt conclude 
the claim had reasonable prospects of success. The solicitors opinion here was at least a 
second review of the prospects issue having already explained the difficulties in proving the 
boundary location. Having thought about this carefully I dont think its unfair that NFU relied 
on the legal advice that Mr Es claim didnt yet have prospects of success. Im satisfied it was 
fair to decline the claim at that stage.
As advised by NFU, Mr E is free to provide a legal opinion at his own expense regarding the 
prospects of success and NFU will consider such a report. As it will with any further reports 
or information from the surveyor.
Briefly, Mr E has also expressed dissatisfaction that he was told he had to use a panel 
solicitor. Ive not seen any information to suggest that Mr E had stated a preference to use 
his own solicitor. In any case, its usual that the freedom to choose a solicitor bites where 
legal proceedings are necessary  i.e. pre-litigation attempts to resolve the dispute have 
failed and its necessary to issue formal proceedings. In Mr Es case the boundary line hadnt 
been established and that, from the solicitors perspective, needed to be before any formal 
proceedings could be issued that had prospects of success. Im not satisfied Mr E has been 
denied the freedom to choose his own solicitor or disadvantaged by being told at the point 
he was that he had to use panel solicitors. 
I appreciate Mr E has complaint points about the solicitor including, the telephone call where 
he feels the solicitor was dismissive about the loss of land given how much he has, and 
being told to obtain an expert report but not then accepting it as substantiating his claim. These matters are more appropriate for the Legal Ombudsman and I understand Mr E has 
raised a complaint in that jurisdiction.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman