DRN-3024633
The complaint
Mr H complains about a standing order payment he made from his Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) current account. The payment didnt reach the account it was sent to on time.
What happened
Mr H had a standing order set up to pay £7.50 from his Lloyds account to a utility provider.
Mr H received a text message from Lloyds on 16 December 2020 stating that he didnt have 
enough money in his account to cover the standing order, so he needed to credit money to 
his account to pay it. Mr H paid money into to his account that day. On the same day, other 
transactions left his account, leaving a balance of £12.47. Although that meant there was 
enough in his account for the standing order to be paid on that day, it wasnt.
Lloyds have said that the reason the payment didnt go through was because Mr H had 
moved the date of the standing order from 16 December 2020 to 17 December 2020. Lloyds 
internal notes show this change was made using online banking at 05.01am on 16 
December 2020.
Mr H told our service that it was stressful having to set up another standing order, and his 
payment to the utility provider was late. Mr H wanted £50 compensation 
Our investigator looked into what happened and was satisfied that the date of the standing 
order was changed by Mr H on 16 December 2020. So he concluded that in paying the 
standing order on 17 December 2020, Lloyds followed Mr Hs instruction.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to reviewed by an ombudsman. He still 
believes Lloyds made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr H told us that Lloyds made a mistake paying the standing order when it did. He says his 
payment to the utility provider was late, and he had to set up another standing order to pay 
the utility provider. I understand Mr Hs position about what happened. However, Lloyds 
records show that Mr Hs online banking was accessed at 05:00am on 16 December 2020 
using a fingerprint. At 05.01am the standing order date was changed from 16 December 
2020 to 17 December 2020. In the circumstances, I think its likely that the payment date 
was changed by Mr H using his online banking profile.
So while I appreciate that Mr H transferred money into his account after receiving the text 
message from Lloyds on 16 December 2020, it wasnt paid towards the standing order as 
the payment date had been changed earlier that day.
Mr H remains unhappy about what happened. However, for the reasons Ive set out above 
Im satisfied Lloyds didnt make a mistake by not paying the original standing order on 16 
December 2020. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Lloyds to 
compensate Mr H for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman