DRN-3848795
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt refunded 
an amount she paid on her credit card.
What happened
In summary, in May 2021, Mrs S bought flights from a third-party airline  who I shall refer to 
as B  to fly to and from Mexico in July 2021. The booking was for four people. B changed 
the flight times of the inbound and outbound flights a number of times. However, in 
June 2021 it cancelled the inbound flight and invited Mrs S to log on to her booking a select 
what she wanted to do. Mrs S said the only alternative flight given was to travel via America. 
However, she said one of the travel party wasnt able to get a visa to America, so they chose 
a refund for his ticket and changed the other three tickets to go via America. The other party 
bought a replacement flight, travelling via Madrid.
However, when Mrs S and her travelling party arrived at the airport in Mexico to check in to 
fly home, they were unable to do so, because they were unable to enter America due to the 
restrictions arising as a result of Covid-19. So they had to buy replacement flights  travelling 
via Madrid  at a cost of £1,381.95.
Mrs S contacted AESEL to request a refund. AESEL processed a chargeback claim, but this 
was unsuccessful because the flight went ahead. Mrs S didnt think this was fair and referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he didnt think B had breached the terms of 
the booking. Mrs S didnt agree and maintained that it should have provided her and her 
travelling party with a direct flight home.
As Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mrs S is complaining about the way AESEL handled a dispute over a payment she made to 
B for flights. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, 
the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). In this case AESEL only considered 
chargeback, however I would have expected it to consider both avenues. Ill consider both 
chargeback and Section 75 separately  including whether Mrs S has lost out due to AESEL 
not considering a Section 75 claim.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will then 
raise a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a 
prescribed period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it 
thinks the chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is unsuccessful, then the 
temporary refund is returned to the merchant.
The rules around when a chargeback can be raised are strict and are set out by the card 
scheme provider  in this case AESEL. AESEL considered the claim under the chargeback 
code of goods or services not received. But this wasnt successful as B was able to show 
the flight took place  i.e. it provided the service. I acknowledge Mrs S and her travelling 
party were unable to board the flight due to the travel restrictions in America, but this doesnt 
mean the service wasnt provided. So I cant say it was unreasonable for AESEL to not 
continue to pursue the chargeback.
Section 75
Firstly, I think AESEL should have considered Mrs Ss claim under Section 75. This is 
particularly the case as Mrs S would be looking to recover the additional cost she incurred in 
having to arrange replacement flights. This isnt something she could have recovered under 
chargeback and AESEL should have been aware of this. However, Ive also thought about 
whether Mrs S has lost out due to AESEL not considering Section 75. 
Mrs S paid for the flights on her AESEL credit card. Section 75 sets out that, in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, AESEL is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  B. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
In the circumstances of this case, for AESEL to be liable under Section 75, Mrs S has to 
demonstrate that B breached the terms of its contract with B. She says it should have 
provided her with a direct flight and she thinks AESEL should pay the costs she incurred due 
to B not providing this. In assessing this Ive considered Bs conditions of carriage. This sets 
out that, where B cancels the flight, Mrs S has three options:
1. Travel to the intended destination on another one of Bs schedules services;
2. Travel at a later date; or
3. B will provide a refund.
The conditions of carriage sets out that it was for Mrs S to choose the option she wanted. 
One of the travelling party was able to receive a refund, so Im satisfied B gave Mrs S the 
option for a refund, but she chose to accept an alternative travel  i.e. remedy one. I 
acknowledge Mrs S is unhappy B didnt provide a direct flight back and that she was 
prevented from using the flight she rebooked onto. But B provided an alternative flight on 
one of its scheduled services and Mrs S was unable to use it due to travel restrictions in 
America  not because of anything B did wrong. And the terms of the contract dont specify 
the alternative flight had to be at precisely the same time or be a direct flight. It was for Mrs S 
to decide which of the remedies was suitable for her and if the flight via America wasnt 
suitable she could have chosen a refund.
Ultimately, while I understand why Mrs S is unhappy with whats happened, I cant say B has 
breached the terms of the contract as it has fulfilled its contractual responsibilities where it 
has had to cancel a flight. So, it follows that I cant hold AESEL responsible for her 
subsequent losses. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman