DRN-4189159
The complaint
Mr X complains that Starling Bank Limited blocked and closed his account. He also 
complains that Starling havent released money that was paid into his account to him. 
What happened
Mr X had an account with Starling. Mr X used the account to receive payments from selling  
cryptocurrency.
 
Mr X used a cryptocurrency trading platform, which I will refer to as B to advertise and sell 
cryptocurrency. Mr X has explained that he posted adverts via Bs platform. If a buyer was 
interested, theyd indicate they wanted to buy cryptocurrency from Mr X via the platform and 
send the payment to Mr Xs Starling bank account. Mr X would then send the cryptocurrency 
to the buyer.
In February 2021, Mr X received five separate payments into his Starling account totalling 
just over £9,000, from an individual I will refer to as Ms C. Mr X has explained that the 
payments were for cryptocurrency, he had sold via B. Mr X transferred the funds he received 
from Ms C out to B and to another bank account he held.
Between 11 March 2021 and 17 March 2021, Mr X sold more crypto currency to another 
individual who I will refer to as Mr D. Again, the sales were completed via Bs platform. Mr X 
received a total of £1,180 for five separate cryptocurrency sales. 
On 18 March 2021, Starling received a notification from another bank that their customer, 
Ms C had been the victim of a scam: she had fallen victim to an investment scam after 
meeting someone online. And her funds were then used to pay Mr X for cryptocurrency. As a 
result of this information Starling blocked Mr Xs account and asked him to provide 
information about the payments hed received from Ms C. Starling told Mr X that Ms C had 
claimed that the payments shed made to him were fraudulent. 
Mr X responded and said he hadnt done anything wrong. He said Ms C had been defrauded 
by others and that he had nothing to do with what had happened. He explained that he had 
followed the rules set by B, and provided evidence that hed sold cryptocurrency to Ms C. He 
sent Starling screen shots of the payments he received from Ms C and cryptocurrency being 
released. He also provided WhatsApp messages between him and Ms C which showed that 
around the time of the sales, Ms C was making investments with a third party. 
In the messages Ms C asked Mr X for more cryptocurrency as the third party had asked her 
to pay tax. Mr X warned Ms C that this request sounded like fraud and to go to the police. 
Starling said it would review everything Mr X had provided. Starling didnt question Mr X 
about the payments he received from Mr D. 
In June 2021, Starling received an indemnity from another financial business for the 
payments Mr X received from Mr D. In response Starling returned all the payments to the 
sending business, amounting to £1,080, which had been paid into Mr Xs account for the 
cryptocurrency. Mr X complained to Starling and asked them to return the money to him.  He 
told Starling that the transactions were legitimate and done in good faith. He said he had no 
knowledge that there was anything untoward about the funds coming into his account and 
Starling should have spoken to him at the time. He explained he was now out of pocket and 
without his cryptocurrency.
In response, Starling said it hadnt done anything wrong and wouldnt return the £1,080 to 
him. Following this Starling decided to close Mr Xs account and released his balance of just 
under £40 back to him. Starling closed Mr Xs account on 23 June 2021 and said it wouldnt 
provide Mr X with any more information.
Unhappy with this response Mr X brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. And asked Mr X for some more information 
about the activity on his account. Mr X provided the investigator with screenshots showing 
his sales of cryptocurrency to Mr D. 
The investigator looked at the information Mr X had provided. He said Starling hadnt done 
anything wrong by closing and reviewing Mr Xs account. He said Mr X hadnt provided 
Starling with the information about his dealings with Mr D at the time, so Starling hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had returned the funds back to the sending business. Mr X 
disagreed. He said he hadnt done anything wrong, and that Starling had treated him unfairly 
when it sent his money back.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. On 23 May 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
The crux of Mr Xs complaint is that he wants Starling to refund him the money he says he 
lost as a result of the cryptocurrency sales he made. Having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, Im currently minded to say that the fair and reasonable 
outcome is that Starling refund Mr X. I shall explain why.
First, Id like to acknowledge the difficulties that this complaint presents. There was a 
particular tension for Starling here because on the face of it, both Mr X and Mr D were 
victims. There is a natural impulse to restore positions as far as possible. It is well 
documented that banking fraud is very damaging not only to the financial sector itself, but 
more particularly to individuals. 
Starling decided to return the funds to the sending business, so that its customer, Mr D 
could be refunded.  Starling said it did this on the basis that the sending business had 
provided Starling with an indemnity. The effect of Starlings actions meant that Mr X had lost 
both his cryptocurrency which hed sold legitimately to Mr D and the money he had expected 
in payment for it.
In this case Mr X had a credible complaint. Theres no evidence to suggest Mr X dishonestly 
procured the funds from Mr D. Nor is there any evidence that he knew, believed, or 
suspected that the funds had been illegitimately procured by someone else in order to pay 
for the cryptocurrency. 
Starling have said they were obliged to return the funds after receiving an indemnity for the 
sending business. However, I disagree with this. An indemnity is simply an agreement 
between the two financial businesses that provides some protection to the receiving bank 
being asked to return the funds by the sending business. It doesnt compel the receiving 
bank to return the funds, if following its own investigation, it establishes that its customer has 
a legal right to the money and was not involved in any fraud or scam. So, I dont agree that 
the indemnity Starling received from the sending business placed any legal obligations on 
them to return the money. Ive also looked at Starlings terms and conditions and I cant see that there is a specific term 
that allows the bank to do what it did. However, even if there were Id expect Starling to carry 
out its own investigation to establish if Mr X had behaved fraudulently and to investigate the 
sending businesses claim. This is in line with the industry best practice standards when 
receiving a report that their consumer has been the recipient of fraudulent funds. With this in 
mind, I dont accept Starling acted fairly when it returned the payments to source.
 
I say this because Mr X has provided this service with information about the transactions. 
Hes sent us evidence that the payments were made by Mr D through B. It appears the 
cryptocurrency was held by B until Mr D had made payment to Mr Xs Starling account  at 
which point Mr X released the cryptocurrency to Mr D. I note too from looking at Mr Xs bank 
statement that Mr D appears to have bought cryptocurrency from Mr X on 4 and 8 March 
2021, without issue. Ive not seen any evidence that Starling asked Mr X about the payments 
he received from Mr D before it decided to return them to source.
If Starling had asked Mr X about his dealings with Mr D, I think its likely he wouldve 
provided the information that he has given to this service to the bank at the time. Therefore, I 
cant see any reason for Starling to return the money to the sending bank. But I havent seen 
anything to show that Starling asked Mr X about the transactions with Mr D or contacted the 
sending bank to investigate things further in light of what Mr X told the bank about selling 
cryptocurrency to different individuals. Based on what Ive seen I think its most likely Mr X 
was engaged in genuine cryptocurrency transactions. So, I find the fair resolution here, 
based on the information Ive seen so far, would be for Starling to return the funds it took 
from Mr Xs account. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Xs account. Im satisfied that the bank acted in 
line with the account terms and relevant regulations when it decided to close Mr Xs account. 
So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong or treated Mr X unfairly when it closed his 
account.
In summary, Starlings actions caused Mr X a great deal of worry and upset. Mr X had to 
spend time contacting Starling trying to sort out what had happened to his funds. He was left 
out of pocket, and I dont think Starling did enough to satisfy themselves that Mr X wasnt 
entitled to the money paid into his account. So, I think they should refund him as he is now at 
a loss. And I think adding interest to the amount they refund him fairly compensates him for 
the loss of use of his money. I also think Starling should pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset this overall situation has caused Mr X and I consider the amount of £100 to be 
appropriate in the circumstances.
My provisional decision was that I partly uphold Mr Xs complaint. To put things right Starling 
Bank Limited should:
Refund Mr X £1,080
Pay Mr X simple interest at the rate of 8% on £1,080 from the date of debit until the 
date of refund.
Pay an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused by returning the £1,080 to 
source
Mr X accepted my provisional decision. Starling didnt respond.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Starling Bank Limited should do the following:
Refund Mr X £1,080
Pay Mr X simple interest at the rate of 8% on £1,080 from the date of debit until the 
date of refund.
Pay an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused by returning the £1,080 to 
source
HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank Limited to withhold income tax from the 
above- mentioned interest. Starling should give Mr X a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr X asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman