DRN-2359798
Complaint
Miss H has, amongst other things, complained that Amigo Loans Limited (Amigo) provided 
her with an unaffordable guarantor loan. 
  
Background
Amigo provided Miss H with a guarantor loan in November 2016 and one in March 2018. 
Miss H has confirmed shes not complaining about the November 2016 loan. So from this 
point onwards all references to loan are made in relation to the loan for £6,000.00 taken in 
March 2018. This loan was due to be paid in 60 monthly instalments of around £237. And 
the total amount due to be repaid was £14,229.00.
One of our investigators considered Miss Hs complaint. He told Amigo that the checks it 
carried out before providing Miss H with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
if such checks had been carried out it would have seen that Miss H wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. So he thought that Amigo shouldnt have provided Miss H 
with this loan and upheld the complaint. 
Amigo disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything and bearing in mind the nature of the dispute 
before me, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Miss Hs complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss H wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H would 
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations when Amigo lent to Miss H required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a sustainable 
manner. Amigo was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment in addition to a 
similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Amigo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss H. In practice 
this meant that Amigo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Miss H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Amigo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss H. The existence of a 
guarantee and the potential for Amigo to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss H, for the loan 
payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Amigos checks reasonable and proportionate?
Amigo has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Miss H. Its 
important to note that Amigo says these checks built upon those carried for loan 1. It says 
Miss Hs monthly income was verified by a third-party credit reference agency (it hasnt said 
how) as being £1,740.00 and Miss Hs stated monthly expenditure of £572.05 was cross-checked against Office of National Statistics (ONS) data. These checks left it concluding 
Miss H had a monthly disposable income of £1,167.95, which meant she was comfortably 
able to make the repayments to this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Amigo has said. But simply requesting information from a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. Its important to note that in 
its justification for why its checks for loan 1 were proportionate Amigo also said it considered 
Miss Hs credit record and noted:
she hadnt taken out new credit cards, home credit, unsecured loans, or high-cost 
short-term credit in the 3 months prior to application;
less than 25% of her income went towards paying back existing credit repayments;
she didnt have any defaults on priority bills
she didnt have any active CCJs in the 12 months prior to application.
Amigo makes no such claims about the checks for loan 2 even though it was advancing 6 
times the amount. The credit check for loan 2 showed Miss H had opened a new account 
within 6 months of this application and had defaulted on an additional account  to go with 
the previous 3 - after loan 1 had been provided. Interestingly, the monthly payments to this 
loan also exceeded 25% of the monthly income declared for loan 1. So Im surprised the 
information gathered didnt prompt Amigo to decide further checks were needed.
In any event, notwithstanding Amigos decision not to carry out further checks bearing in 
mind the above, Im concerned about the amount of some of the information relied on. For 
example, I can see that there was a utility account with a balance of £1,410. This in itself 
seems a pretty high amount for a utility bill. But Im more concerned that Amigo attributed 
monthly payments of 1% to this account. I cant see how this amount would be anywhere 
near enough for payments towards utilities. Given there isnt a monthly minimum payment to 
for this type of account.
Furthermore, while Amigo says it verified Miss Hs income with a third-party credit reference 
agency, I dont understand how it could have done this given an employer wont normally 
record this sort of information on a credit file. Equally, I think the lack of actual verification of 
Miss Hs income was particularly important here bearing in mind the significant increase in 
the declared amount for loan 1 (some 170%) and Amigo itself appears to accept at least in 
an implied way (in its defence of its checks) that monthly payments of more than 25% of a 
borrowers income could prove more problematic to pay.
Amigos argues Miss H didnt make accurate declarations. But notwithstanding this, Amigo 
appears to be overlooking its obligation (contained in CONC 5.3.7R) not to proceed with an 
application when it ought reasonably to suspect it has been provided with inaccurate 
information. In my view, there was a clear mismatch between what was shown on Miss Hs 
credit file and her declared (or adjusted) disposable income and this suggested further 
verification was needed. And bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what 
Amigo saw or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications 
for the guarantor, Amigo needed to get a thorough understanding of Miss Hs financial 
position in order to properly assess whether shed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments she was being asked to commit to. So as well as asking Miss H about the details of her income and expenditure and carrying 
out credit checks, I think that Amigo needed to verify what Miss H said. It could have done 
this by asking for information such as payslips, bank statements or copies of bills. And when 
it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Miss H did have 
enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Amigo did properly scrutinise the information provided, or that it 
asked Miss H to provide documentary evidence to support the income and expenditure 
declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Miss H with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Amigo that Miss H would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Amigo that Miss H wouldve been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan. 
Miss H has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss H has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Amigo mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything 
else from Amigo showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what 
Miss Hs financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time.
Amigo was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, had a 
second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the guarantor. The 
loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Miss H has provided in light of all of this. 
The information provided shows Miss Hs income was much closer to the around £1,000 a 
month declared for loan 1. And when the expenditure payments Miss H was making (she 
was actually paying less than required) was deducted from her monthly income, its clear 
that she didnt have enough left over to make the repayments to this loan. So it seems to me 
Miss H didnt have anything near the disposable income required to make the repayments to 
this loan without suffering adverse consequences or having to borrow further. And Im 
satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
demonstrated that Miss H would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan.
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided and the arguments made once the complaint 
was referred to us. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that leads me to conclude 
Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in some other way. So I find Amigo 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss H in some other way.  Did Miss H lose out as a result of Amigo unfairly and unreasonably providing her with her 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Hs indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and she ended up paying 
interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Miss H lost out because Amigo unfairly provided her with this loan.
  
Fair compensation  what Amigo needs to do to put things right for Miss H
Ive carefully thought about what Amigo should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Hs 
complaint for Amigo to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments made to this loan should be deducted from the £6,000.00 Miss H was
originally lent. Amigo should treat any payments made if and when the
£6,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Miss H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Miss B to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Amigo of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on an 
outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the 
account, and its the case that Miss H is experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Amigo Loans Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman