DRN-2064132
The complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD, 
as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a hire purchase agreement in 1997. Mr M paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Ive decided that Mr Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ms credit agreement had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what it was for and 
had a box that could be marked if Mr M wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt 
want it. The box was marked with a printed X. I can see that much of the agreement was 
printed, such as Mr Ms details and details of the credit he wanted. The staff couldve only 
got that information by discussing it with Mr M, so I think its most likely that the section for 
PPI was discussed, too. Mr M signed the agreement as a whole to confirm that he agreed 
with everything that was on it  including the choice about PPI. And there was an onus on 
him to read what he was signing for. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs 
sales process from the time  from what Ive seen, their process was to offer customers a 
choice about PPI and only it set up if the customer actively chose it. And Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows that this sale differed significantly from the normal process. So I think 
its most likely that AXA made Mr M aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so 
after so many years.
AXA didnt give Mr M tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. They did have to give Mr M clear information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. For instance, I know Mr M is concerned that the cost information wasnt in the PPI 
section on the agreement. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely 
to have changed his mind.
Here, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main 
things it didnt cover. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay and savings, 
and offered him more comprehensive cover  especially for when his sick pay reduced to 
just a fraction of his normal pay. And it meant he could effectively protect his savings and 
use them for other things. So it could have really been useful for Mr M in case something 
went wrong. The PPI was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, 
and it wouldve been affordable  costing less than £1 a month. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr M mentioned that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, and 
I understand why hes raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and 
so on. So even though some policies were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that other 
ones were, too. Thats why we look at each case on its own merits. Ive explained above why 
I have not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman