DRN-3674357
The complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (LTGL) provided him with loans that were 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B took out two loans with LTGL on the following basis:
Loan 
numberDate Loan 
amountTerm APR Total 
amount 
repayableMonthly 
repayment 
amountLoan purpose (as 
stated by Mr B at the 
point of application)
One May 
2017£450 18 
months990% £1,835.10 £101.95 Holiday
Two June 
2017£500 18 
months990.1% £2,039.00 £113.24 Kids birthdays, living 
expenses
It appears that Mr B signed for the first loan on 12 May 2017 and that it was repaid only a 
few days later. 
In October 2021 Mr B (who is professionally represented) complained to LTGL that it 
shouldnt have provided him with either loan. He said that LTGL didnt do enough to check 
that he could sustainably meet the repayments on either loan. He also said that, before 
agreeing Loan Two, LTGL should have enquired as to how he had been able to repay Loan 
One so quickly  to check that he wasnt using other creditors and hadnt gotten into a cycle 
of dependency on credit.
He said that after taking out Loan Two he fell into arrears as he couldnt afford to meet the 
loan repayments. He asked LTGL to refund all interest and charges plus statutory interest 
and to remove the loans from his credit file.
LTGL didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that ahead of granting both loans it 
had verified Mr Bs stated income (using bank statements provided by Mr B during the 
application process) and calculated his expenditure. After doing this and adding a buffer, it 
had found that the monthly loan repayments were affordable. It said it had also reviewed 
Mr Bs credit file.
However, it said that, taking account of Mr Bs change in circumstances, it was prepared to 
make a gesture of goodwill offer  which was to write off the remaining balance of the loan 
(£1,102.76).
Mr B didnt accept the offer and referred his concerns to this Service.
An investigator here issued an opinion upholding Loan Two only. For Loan One, she said 
she thought the checks LTGL had carried out were reasonable and proportionate and that, 
from the information it had gathered, she didnt think the lending would have appeared to be 
unaffordable. 
For Loan Two, the investigator said that from the information LTGL gathered ahead of 
granting the loan, there were signs that Mr Bs financial situation was deteriorating. This was 
by reference to the frequency and extent of other borrowing in the lead up to the loan and 
that Mr B had said he was applying for the loan to help with living expenses. The investigator 
thought that LTGL ought to have realised the loan would likely be unsustainable and 
unhelpful for Mr B.
She said in relation to Loan Two that LTGL should refund the interest and charges and 
remove any adverse information in relation to the loan as a result of the interest and 
charges, from Mr Bs credit file.
LTGL didnt agree with the assessment in relation to Loan Two. It said that the bank 
statement information it had obtained showed Mr B wasnt struggling financially and wasnt 
spending money on gambling transactions. It said that Mr B had sufficient spare funds once 
all of his credit commitments and day to day living costs had been paid, to not have to use 
his overdraft facility. 
The investigators view remained unchanged and LTGL asked for the case to be passed to 
an ombudsman. 
I requested some further information from both parties. 
I asked Mr B the following (Mr Bs responses are in italics):
- The statements the business obtained for Loan One went up to 2 May 2017. They show 
two payments to "G C LTD", totalling £600. The April statement shows over £900 payments 
to the same place. What were these payments in relation to?
o in relation to the transactions G_C Ltd this is Grosvenor Casino.
- The statements also show a number of significant cash withdrawals from the same 
location, seemingly (given the details on the statement) related to the bullet point above. For 
example, in April 2017 approximately £700 worth of cash withdrawals were made, with the 
reference "LNK G C LTD CD". What were these cash withdrawals in relation to i.e. what was 
the money being used for?
o G_C Lnk is the bank machine they have inside the casino and all transactions were 
used to gamble, I am able to admit I had a very bad gambling problem at that time. 
The machine charged 1.50 for transactions as that may have confused the amount 
that you see.
- April's statement shows a transfer in of £800 on 4 April, from what appears to have been 
another account in the your name. What was this other account used for? Why did you make 
the £800 transfer?
o The  reason I have two accounts the bank (Lloyds) gave me a cash account and 
savings account when I opened my banking with them.o When I won 1800 pounds I was keeping 800 aside to try and help put my finances 
on track. I used my savings account at times to put my winnings in to try and stop the 
temptation of gambling I was kidding myself at the time looking back. As I had easy 
access to transfer the money
- In terms of March's statement, it appears there is a page missing (page 2 of 12). This 
contains transactions at the end of March 2017. They include £1,800 into the account with 
the reference "Bolton Hotel". And another £800 transferred in from the same account 
seemingly in your name. What was the £1,800 "Bolton Hotel" transaction in relation to and 
why did you transfer £800 from another account?
o Hotel Bolton is where the main branch is for Lloyds Bank in Bolton... (Hotel Street 
Bolton is in the town centre branch)
- May's statement (obtained by the lender before granting the second loan) showed two 
transactions into the account totalling £1,500 with the description "LOYD HALIWELL ROA". 
What was this in relation to?
o The transactions which you refer to Lloyd Halliwell Road is a Lloyds bank on 
Halliwell Road Bolton where I deposited money.
- Loan One was signed on 12 May 2017 and seemingly repaid on 15 May 2017. Why did you 
do this?
o The money I deposited (see Hotel Bolton reference above) was my winnings from 
the casino which also enabled me to pay off the loan you refer to in May. I used the 
money I loaned to gamble and was able to pay it off two days later as I used the 
winnings to do so..
- I can see in the final response letter that the lender offered to write off the remaining loan 
balance at that time - of £1,102. Did you reject this offer? How much do you now owe?
o In regards to turning the offer down 1102 as a good will gesture this was based on 
the professional advice that was given to me from (name of professional 
representative)
Mr B also said the following:
I went through a really bad time from the moment I was enabled to gamble from this lending 
period. This was the beginning of my gambling problem. This went on for the next year or so. 
This really effected my relationships with family friends and my own children. The financial 
strain really impacted my mum the most as she was trying to support me at this time to help 
pay my general bills.
I was unable to see my children due to my addiction. I was an emotional wreck and my 
mental health was so much affected that I felt suicidal. My whole life had been turned upside 
down. I was also unable to ruin my children's Christmas of 2017 due to my gambling 
problem.
I also taken out other loans and still playing catch up since then. My outstanding loans 
results on my credit file stands at 1471.69 due to loans and unpaid debts at this time. I also 
had loans with h and t pawnbrokers. Moneybox 24/7 and many others. I have an account 
with lantern at the minute which stands at over 900 for unpaid loans.My outstanding debts in total are over 10000 pounds my outstanding debts due to my 
gambling is at 6360 that's Inc money I still owe to family and friends. In regards to my current 
outstanding balance directly with loans 2 go I'm not sure if they have added interest on this 
amount... Last balance I was aware off was 1102.
At the same time, I asked LTGL to confirm whether Mr B rejected the gesture of goodwill 
offer. I also asked it to confirm how much Mr B still owes.
LTGL responded to say that it hadnt received any further correspondence from Mr B since it 
issued its final response letter. It also said that the balance outstanding remained the same.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022. In it, I said:
Given when the loans were taken out, it is the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) rules 
that apply to each of LTGTs decisions to lend to Mr B.
From what LTGL has said and provided, it appears that the checks it carried out ahead of 
granting each loan, were centred around income and expenditure (as declared by Mr B, with 
some verification) and having regard to some credit file information.
The first thing I need to consider is whether LTGL carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks ahead of agreeing to lend. If it did, I need to consider whether fair lending decisions 
were then made, given what those checks showed. If reasonable and proportionate checks 
werent carried out, I need to consider what such checks would reasonably have involved 
and what that would likely have shown (and what a reasonable lending decision wouldve 
looked like, bearing in mind that information).
There are a number of factors that influence what is likely to represent a reasonable and 
proportionate check for any given lending. But with that said, I think that a reasonable check 
should generally have been more thorough:
- The lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
- The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
- The longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
- The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated financing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Loan One
From what LTGT has said, it looks like it took steps to verify Mr Bs income by requesting 
and reviewing bank statements. It also looks like its assessment of expenditure was limited 
to considering whether it needed to make any adjustments to the figures provided by Mr B, 
based on statistical averages or similar. 
One question I need to consider is whether LTGT ought to have gone further than it did to 
verify Mr Bs expenditure  to more accurately assess his ability to meet the loan 
repayments on a sustainable basis. I think this is finely balanced. I say this because the 
amount being applied for wasnt particularly large, nor the duration particularly long. The credit file information indicated that Mr B didnt have particular large existing borrowing 
elsewhere and there werent any missed payments or similar adverse information. 
On the other hand, the credit file information showed that there had been quite a large 
number of credit file searches in the three months prior, including in relation to a Payday 
loan. Two credit accounts had been recently started and the disposable income indicated by 
Mr Bs stated income and expenditure was implausible  being larger than the capital 
amount he was seeking to borrow. 
However, I dont need to make a finding on this question on this occasion. I say the because 
having obtained bank statement information to verify Mr Bs income, it wasnt reasonable of 
LTGL to ignore other information showing on those statements, that was likely to be relevant 
to its lending decision.
Mr Bs statements contained transactions that LTGL reasonably ought to have found out 
more about, to satisfy itself that lending to Mr B would be responsible. In short, I think 
reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved asking the kind of questions that I 
recently asked of Mr B and that can be found earlier in this decision.  
I accept that something I can now see from information Mr B has provided wouldnt 
necessarily have been disclosed by whatever reasonable and proportionate checks LTGL 
might have decided to carry out. However, I think it likely in this case that had LTGL asked 
the questions it ought to have done, Mr B would have needed to disclose the information he 
has recently revealed. What he has said is credible and I see no reason to doubt it.
Given what Mr B said in response to my questions, its clear he was spending a significant 
amount of money on gambling  to the extent that if LTGL had found this out, it couldnt 
reasonable have considered it responsible to provide Mr B with the loan. 
Loan Two
Given the proximity to Loan One, the finding here is the same. Had LTGL carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to the Loan One, it couldnt reasonably have 
considered it responsible to provide Mr B with Loan Two either.
Given what Mr B has said about how the lending contributed to his financial difficulties, I 
think something has gone wrong that need to be put right.
I said that to put things right, LTGL should refund all of the interest and charges Mr B had 
paid on both loans and to reduce the remaining capital balance by that amount. I also said 
LTGL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
Mr B responded to say he was happy to proceed, which I take to mean he accepted my 
provisional findings. 
LTGL responded to say that it didnt agree. In summary, it said that given the size of the 
loans, the checks it carried out were proportionate and that the bank statements gave no 
indication of financial distress. It said it didnt think it would have been necessary to ask Mr B 
any further questions at the time of the applications and that it was unfortunate it wasnt 
aware of his gambling (which Mr B hadnt disclosed  meaning that he mispresented 
himself). It also said that neither of the loans had been taken to cover essential living costs. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done all of this, I am still upholding this complaint in full, which is to say that I dont 
think LTGL should have granted either of the loans. Ill explain why.
Before I do, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point 
thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. 
But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind 
all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing 
that.
As set out above in my provisional findings (that form part of this final decision), given when 
the loans were taken out, it is the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) rules that apply to 
each of LTGLs decisions to lend to Mr B.  
Under these rules, LTGL was obliged to check that Mr B could afford to repay each loan on 
a sustainable basis. The checks it needed to carry out had to be proportionate given relevant 
factors, including things like the loan amount and term and Mr Bs circumstances. 
Loan One
From what LTGT has said, it looks like it took steps to verify Mr Bs income by requesting 
and reviewing bank statements. It also looks like its assessment of expenditure was limited 
to considering whether it needed to make any adjustments to the figures provided by Mr B, 
based on statistical averages or similar.
I still think the question of whether LTGT ought to have gone further than it did to verify 
Mr Bs expenditure  to more accurately assess his ability to meet the loan repayments on a 
sustainable basis  is a finely balanced one. On the one hand neither the loan amount nor 
term were particularly large. But on the other hand, there were some indications (mentioned 
in my provisional findings) that Mr Bs financial situation wasnt particular stable.
I still consider that I dont need to reach a firm finding on this though, because I still think that 
having obtained bank statement information to verify Mr Bs income, it wasnt reasonable of 
LTGL to ignore other information showing on those statements, that was likely to be relevant 
to its lending decision.
LTGLs view is that it carried out proportionate checks and that it didnt need to ask Mr B any 
further questions at the time of the applications. Its also pointed out that Mr B didnt mention 
his gambling at the point of applying for the loan.
Regarding the latter point, CONC rules anticipate that applicants may not always provide 
entirely accurate information. That is why the rules and guidance at this time required 
lenders to have clear and effective processes and procedures in place to assess affordability, which included taking adequate steps to ensure that the information provided by 
the customer in an application for credit is complete and correct.  
 
Bearing this in mind, I still consider that, having asked Mr B to provide bank statements to 
verify his income, it wasnt then reasonable in this case for LTGL to ignore other information 
showing on those statements, that was likely to be relevant to its lending decision. I still 
consider that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved LTGL asking Mr B the 
sort of questions I asked him. The value of the transactions in question were significant 
when thinking about Mr Bs stated (and verified) income. They also cast significant doubt 
about the accuracy of Mr Bs stated expenditure. 
I still accept that something I can now see from information Mr B has provided wouldnt 
necessarily have been disclosed by whatever reasonable and proportionate checks LTGL 
might have decided to carry out. However, I think it likely in this case that had LTGL asked 
the questions it ought to have done, Mr B would have needed to disclose the information he 
has recently revealed. What he has said remains credible and I still see no reason to doubt 
it.
Given what Mr B said in response to my questions, it remains clear he was spending a 
significant amount of money on gambling  to the extent that if LTGL had found this out, it 
couldnt reasonable have considered it responsible to provide Mr B with the loan. 
Loan Two
Given the proximity to Loan One, the finding here remains the same. Had LTGL carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to the Loan One, it couldnt reasonably have 
considered it responsible to provide Mr B with Loan Two either.
Given what Mr B has said about how the lending contributed to his financial difficulties, I still 
think something has gone wrong that needs to be put right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loans in question.However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr B 
was given the loans which have since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loans in the first place. I also dont think that LTGL should benefit 
from unfair lending decisions.
Bearing this in mind, I still think the following represents fair compensation:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr B has paid to date on both loans.
2. If (as seems to be the case) any of the lending is outstanding, reduce the outstanding 
capital balance by the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to any 
historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr B. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back 
to Mr B and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus. 
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loans, as 
a result of the interest and charges.
HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the Business must
provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if one is requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited and I direct it to 
do what Ive set out above under putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman