DRN-3748727
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined 
their claim for Japanese knotweed treatment and removal under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S received a letter of claim in September 2020 from a neighbours solicitors, 
claiming a substantial sum. It alleged that a nuisance had been caused by Japanese 
knotweed encroaching from Mrs and Mr Ss property into the neighbours property. Mrs and 
Mr Ss legal liability insurers were dealing with the third-party claim. However, Mrs and Mr S 
were unhappy that RSA declined to cover the cost of treating and removing the Japanese 
knotweed by a specialist company. They understood that the cost of implementing a 
professional treatment plan and removing the knotweed would be very substantial indeed.
RSA said that Japanese knotweed wasnt covered under the policy as it was a gradually 
operating cause. It maintained its position and Mrs and Mr S therefore complained to this 
service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the policy 
covered Mrs and Mr S for third-party legal claims but that this wasnt the same as a first 
party claim for issues happening gradually, so they were two separate claims. She said: - 
Although your insurer covers you for a lot of issues, it doesnt cover you for everything.
Mrs and Mr S remain unhappy about the outcome of their complaint. The matter has now 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue for me to consider here is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions 
of Mrs and Mr Ss home insurance policy as to treatment and eradication of Japanese 
knotweed in a fair and reasonable manner. In all the circumstances, I cant say that RSA has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in handling this claim. Ill explain why.
Turning to the submissions of each party, Mrs and Mr S provided some background 
information. They questioned whether the knotweed had spread from their property and said 
that there had been a history of animosity with the neighbour in question. They thought that 
Japanese knotweed was a local problem affecting many properties. Mrs and Mr S thought 
that the policy would cover them for eventualities such as damage caused by Japanese 
knotweed. They considered that RSA was applying the terms and conditions in an 
inconsistent way by covering the third-party claim but not the cause of the issue. As the 
third-party claim had been accepted, they felt it must follow that the Japanese knotweed was 
an insured risk. They considered that if the Japanese knotweed was left untreated, it had the 
potential to spread to other neighbouring properties for which they would then be held liable. 
They pointed out that unless the Japanese knotweed was treated, eradicated, and removed, 
RSA would be left exposed to further third-party claims. They thought that treatment and 
removal was the only way to prevent future claims. Mrs and Mr S though it unfair that they 
were expected to fund all remedial works to protect RSA from further claims.
Mrs and Mr S said that by way of analogy, if they had a leaking waterpipe in a tank in the loft 
and water accumulated over time, causing flood damage, they would surely be covered. 
They gave a second example of a sewer being damaged and leaking gradually, causing 
damage to both third-party and policyholder property. Again, they thought the insurer would 
surely cover both. They gave a third example of damage caused by tree roots. 
Mrs and Mr S engaged the services of specialists and provided details of the possible costs 
of treatment and removal. They said that they were unable to build on the property and felt 
that any future sale or re-mortgage of the property would be seriously hampered. In 
summary they wanted RSA to cover the cost of treatment, removal of the Japanese 
knotweed and all other costs including Insurances and Guarantees. Mrs and Mr S were 
adamant that the third-party claim was related to the outcome of the first party claim, as both 
claims arose out of the same issue and were fundamentally interlinked. I believe that it is 
only reasonable that Insurers should fund their own preventative steps in order to deal with 
this claim and any potential future claims.
Finally, Mrs and Mr S submitted that the policy exclusion for gradually operating clauses was 
unclear and unfair and thought the matter should therefore be resolved in their favour as the 
consumers. They also submitted that the exclusion was an unfair contractual term.
R&S sent its final response letter to Mrs & Mr S in February 2022 and maintained its position 
that no insured peril had occurred, and that Japanese knotweed wouldnt be covered as it 
was a gradually operating cause. It stated that insurance policies are designed to offer cover 
for a number of insured perils but referred to relevant policy exclusions which included 
...anything that happens gradually... It also said that it had responsibility to ensure that all 
claims are fully validated in line with the terms and conditions.
In previous correspondence, RSA had said that Japanese knotweed wasnt covered under 
any insurance policy. It also explained that the cover to protect against third party claims was 
to pay/defend against resultant damage. It said that cover had been used to defend against 
the relevant claim which so far we are successfully doing. As it had advised Mrs and Mr S 
to carry out treatment, it said that it may not be able to defend them against a third party 
claim in future and said that they may have to defend/pay for the damage themselves. 
Ive considered both parties submissions together with all available evidence to reach my 
final decision. The starting point in deciding whether an insurer has applied a policy in a fair 
and reasonable manner in declining a claim, is the policy wording itself. I note that the policy 
contains standard insurance policy wording, excluding damage caused by a range of issues 
and anything that happens gradually. Im satisfied that the spread of Japanese knotweed 
occurs over time, and so I cant say that it would be unfair or unreasonable to interpret the 
policy wording to cover such unfortunate events.
I agree with Mrs and Mr S that their own claim regarding the potential to cause damage and 
the third-party claim arose out of the same underlying issue, being the presence and spread 
of Japanese knotweed. I also appreciate that it can be confusing in an insurance context, 
where a third-party claim is accepted whilst a first party one is not, despite the damage and 
potential damage arising from the same cause.  However, the starting point is the policy 
wording itself which forms the basis of the agreement between the insured and insurer.
Whilst the underlying issue is the same, the policy cover for different types of claim is 
different and this is the key issue here. The cover in one case is to deal with a range of third-
party legal claims and to pay/defend against damage claims. Here, third party claims for all sorts of issues including nuisance claims are covered. However, a gradually operating cause 
and action to avoid future damage, is not covered. Similarly, a third-party car insurance 
policy may cover damage caused to a third-party vehicle where the policyholder causes an 
accident, whilst damage to the policy-holders own vehicle isnt covered. This is despite both 
claims arising out of the same accident.
Mrs and Mr S refer by analogy to an example such as leak incidents occurring gradually and 
resulting in damage to third party and policyholder property. In such circumstances, again 
whilst a third-party claim might be covered, the policyholder wouldnt necessarily be covered. 
In essence, Mrs and Mr S appear not to agree with the exclusion clause itself which lead to 
the claim decline on the basis that it occurred gradually. However, such exclusions are 
standard practice and in principle are regarded as being acceptable exclusions within the 
terms and conditions of insurance policies.
Whilst I have great sympathy for Mrs and Mr S in having to deal with such a difficult issue at 
their property, unfortunately insurance policies do not cover policy holders for every 
eventuality. It appears that the stress and inconvenience of a potential claim has been 
handled by the insurers. However, as regards the emergence of Japanese knotweed over 
time and potential damage to the policyholders own property, I cant say that RSA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in applying the policy in the way that it did and declining Mrs and Mr 
Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint and I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman