DRN-3201711
The complaint
Mr C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted access to his business and 
personal accounts while completing a review of his accounts. He said this caused significant 
problems, including not being able to pay his rent, pay his sub-contractors, or buy materials.
Mr C wants more compensation than Barclays offered him. 
What happened
On 17 May 2021, Barclays blocked Mr Cs business and personal accounts after an internal 
review was triggered. Mr C didnt know about this, and only found out when his card was 
declined. He complained to Barclays.
Mr C chased Barclays several times, both by phone and at his local branch. He couldnt pay 
his sub-contractors, buy materials, or carry out other business functions. He said Barclays 
had sent him a letter saying hed be able to withdraw money at a branch, but this had been 
refused. Barclays had also told him it would be resolved within 15 days. But by mid June it 
was still unresolved. 
So Mr C complained to this service on 16 June, and we contacted Barclays.
Barclays unblocked Mr Cs accounts on 25 June, and on 1 July it replied to his complaint. 
Barclays upheld Mr Cs complaint, because of the length of time his accounts had been 
under review. It explained that it could apply blocks to an account at any time in line with the 
terms and conditions, but it agreed that it had exceeded its 15 day timescale by a further 15 
days.
Barclays apologised, and agreed Mr C hadnt received the expected level of service. It had 
already paid him £200 compensation, and it offered him a further £200, making £400 in all. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied and said he wanted to continue his complaint to this service.
Our investigator accepted that the blocks had caused Mr C distress, and had impacted his 
ability to run his business, and caused reputational damage to the business. But Barclays 
had the right to restrict account access when conducting safeguarding checks. The 
investigator thought Barclays compensation of £400 had been fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He pointed out that he hadnt been able to run his business or pay his 
sub-contractors. Hed been forced to borrow money from people to keep the business afloat. 
The investigator asked if Mr C could provide any documentary evidence of  his losses. He 
couldnt, but said his statements would show that hed normally paid out significant sums of 
money from his business account, which he hadnt been able to do. Mr C also said that hed 
lost profit on work he hadnt been able to complete during the time hed been without access 
to the account, though he couldnt provide any evidence to show this. 
Mr C said he wants £10,000 compensation and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Barclays was entitled to restrict Mr Cs accounts under the terms and conditions. 
These set out the circumstances under which Barclays could refuse to act on an instruction 
from the customer, including refusing to make payments. And for security reasons, Barclays 
didnt have to give Mr C full details of exactly what it was investigating. But the time it took to 
complete the review was nearly double the 15 days which Barclays said it should have 
taken. 
I do understand that Mr C was significantly impacted by being without access to his business 
account for this length of time. Not being able to pay staff, buy materials or carry out the 
normal functioning of his business would have been highly inconvenient, and Mr C told us he 
had to borrow as a result. It would also have been very frustrating to have been sent a letter 
which said hed be able to withdraw money in a branch  but then couldnt do so. I 
understand that there would have been the risk of reputational damage, as well as worry 
about how long the problem would take to resolve. So I accept that this had a significant 
impact on Mr C.
But the levels of compensation which this service would consider fair and reasonable for this 
type of considerable distress and inconvenience arent in the region of the £10,000 which Mr 
C has said he wants. Our website sets out some examples of awards which this service has 
made, and Ive followed these principles in considering how much compensation would be 
fair in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. 
Here, I find that Barclays delays, and inaccurate information about Mr C being able to 
withdraw money, caused him considerable distress and worry, as well as inconvenience and 
disruption over several weeks. I consider that £400 is fair and reasonable compensation in 
the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. I understand that Barclays has paid Mr C £200, 
leaving a further £200 to pay.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid Mr C £200 and made an offer of a further £200 to 
settle the complaint.  I find that this total offer of £400 is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C the remaining £200 of its 
£400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman