DRN-3567054
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complaint that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed their account 
after they told it they were having financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr B says he was due to start work at his new job in July 2018. Before he started work he 
says he wanted to make sure he could afford the 50 miles a day round trip. 
Mr B applied to take a payment holiday from his loan. He says he applied online and the 
holiday was granted electronically. A few days later the payment was taken and so he called 
the bank to find out why.
Mr B says he had a lengthy conversation with Halifax and explained his financial situation. 
He says the agent he spoke to told him he had more money coming out of the account than 
going in and so the account would be closed. 
Mr B explained he and his wife had new jobs and so the bank account would be run as 
normal and the loan would be repaid. Mr B says the account was closed with immediate 
effect. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax who sent a final response letter in July 2021, but he 
didnt receive it until November 2021 via the debt collection agency. 
Mr and Mrs B say they had to find a new bank account and had to sell personal possessions 
to manage until their first monthly payday. They say all of their financial transactions had to 
be rearranged. They say the matter has caused anxiety and led to a bad credit rating. 
Mr and Mrs B want Halifax to write of any outstanding debts and compensate them for the 
distress caused.
Halifax said Mr and Mrs B completed an affordability assessment in May 2018 which showed 
their outgoings were more than their income. Halifax said Mr B explained he had a new job 
and was on less income. Halifax said in July 2018 it sent a final demand letter to Mr and Mrs 
B which confirmed the account closure and a default to be applied. Mr B contacted Halifax to 
tell it he had a new job but wasnt sure of the income. And so the bank stopped the closure 
while Mr B sent in his income and expenditure details. Halifax said the account was on hold 
for 30 days. In August 2018 Halifax said it received a letter confirming Mr and Mrs B were 
getting assistance with a Debt Relief Order. And since no repayment had been agreed it 
sent a solicitors letter in the same month and the account was closed in November 2018. 
Halifax added once it was aware of Mr and Mrs Bs financial situation it stopped applying 
fees to the account. 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with the response received from Halifax and so they referred 
their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. She said she was 
satisfied Halifax followed the terms and conditions of the account and gave Mr and Mrs B the 
relevant notice before closing the account. And so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said during the phone call when Mr B was told his account 
would be closed he was told it would be with immediate effect. He said no explanation of the 
rules was provided by Halifax. Had he been aware of the rules which affected Halifaxs 
decision he may have acted differently. And so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about the banks decision to close their 
account. However, their agreement with Halifax entitled either party to terminate banking 
facilities. 
My role here is to see whether Halifax have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs 
B in line with its terms and conditions.
Closing the account 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. Before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way which complies 
with the terms and conditions. So my starting point is the terms and conditions which would 
have been agreed at the account opening. Within them is the following, if we decide to close 
your account, we will write to you at least two months before, explaining our position.  The 
terms and conditions also confirm, an overdraft is repayable on demand. This means we 
can ask you to repay it (or part of it) at any time. And that is what Halifax did here. 
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 15 May 2018 at the address held on its file to notify them 
that the account was being transferred to the recoveries team. That letter explained they 
would receive a formal demand letter which would provide them with two months notice of 
closure. It also explained if Mr and Mrs Bs situation improved they should contact the bank. 
So I think Halifax explained what the process of the account closure was. Halifax issued a 
formal demand on 29 August 2018, followed by a pre-closure letter on 29 September 2018. 
The account was closed in November 2018. So Im satisfied Halifax acted within the terms 
and conditions of the account and provided Mr and Mrs B with the correct notice before 
closing the account. 
I can see and understand Mr and Mrs B would have found this matter frustrating since they 
needed to open a new bank account and arrange for payments to and from the new account. 
But ultimately Halifax was entitled to close the account and acted within the terms and 
conditions. As such I dont think it acted unfairly. 
Telephone call with bank 
After the investigator sent her view to Mr and Mrs B they raised the issue of the telephone 
call with the bank where they were told the account would be closed immediately. Given the 
time which has passed since the call the recording no longer exists. And so I have to look at 
what is most likely to have happened on balance. The call with the bank was on 8 May 2018. Mr B confirmed their financial situation was 
discussed at length. The call was followed up with a letter dated 15 May 2018 that explained 
the account was being passed to recoveries. Halifax then sent further letters explaining what 
would happen during the closure process before eventually closing the account in November 
2018. So I dont agree the account was closed immediately rather the closure process was 
started immediately following the call. And the letters that followed explained the steps being 
taken. 
I have also seen that there were a number of transactions which occurred on the account 
between May 2018 and November 2018 when the account was closed. Which further 
evidences the account wasnt closed in May 2018. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B are very frustrated the bank have chosen to close the account. But 
my role here is to determine this complaint based on what is fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances. Having looked at all the evidence I cant say Halifax did anything wrong here. 
And Im satisfied it acted with the terms and conditions of the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman