DRN-1250751
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc failed to report his current account to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr K says several applications for credit were declined as a result. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Each lender has its own lending criteria and there's no evidence to show any of Mr 
K's applications were declined as a direct result of TSB's failure to report his current 
account to the credit reference agencies. 
TSB has been unable to confirm the specific reason that Mr K's credit card 
application was declined. Now TSB is actively reporting the existence of Mr K's 
current account to the credit reference agency he can decide whether he wants to 
reapply for a credit card. 
TSB failed to accurately update Mr K's credit file for a period of around four years 
and it's clear the situation caused him considerable distress. I think an increase from 
£100 to £150 more fairly reflects the longstanding nature of TSB's error and the 
distress it caused Mr K. 
TSB has agreed to pay Mr K £15 to cover his costs for visiting a branch and 
completing a credit card application. Should Mr K still want to take a credit card with 
TSB, it should arrange for a new application and credit check to be completed. Mr K 
should be aware that any application he makes will need to pass TSB's lending 
criteria before it can be approved. 
 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that TSB should pay Mr K a total of £150 plus £15 costs. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr K a total of 
£165 less any compensation already paid. I also direct TSB Bank plc to check whether Mr K 
still wants to open a credit card and, if so, undertake a new application and credit search. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.Marco Manente
Ombudsman