DRN-3868317
The complaint
Mr V complains about his mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited. He says that 
Landmark has added disproportionate and excessive fees to his mortgage. And he says that 
Landmark has overcharged interest because the interest rate should have been set at a 
consistent margin over the Bank of England base rate. He also complains that Landmark 
hasnt applied the correct terms and conditions, and that hed relied on it telling him hed paid 
his mortgage off.
What happened
Mr V took out a mortgage with the former Northern Rock bank  after its collapse, his 
mortgage was transferred to the nationalised lender which took over Northern Rocks 
business, NRAM, and then on to Landmark in 2016. As the current lender, Landmark is 
responsible for answering this complaint, including in respect of matters pre-dating the 
transfer.
Mr V borrowed around £190,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 23 years, beginning 
in 2006. The mortgage was on an initial fixed rate of 5.49% for two years, reverting to 
Northern Rocks standard variable rate (SVR) for five years and thereafter to a discount rate 
of at least 0.25% below the SVR thereafter. The discount rate was conditional on the 
mortgage payments being up to date; the discount would be removed and the full SVR 
charged if not. 
In taking out the mortgage, Mr V received advice from a mortgage broker. That broker is no 
longer trading, but Mr V has complained to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) about the mortgage advice, and was awarded compensation of around £30,000. The 
FSCS found that the mortgage was not suitable for Mr V and should not have been 
recommended.
Some years ago Mr V fell into arrears on the mortgage. Landmark has added various fees 
and charges to the mortgage. Mr V has complained about this for some time, and in 2017 he 
issued a court claim against Landmark. The court decided in Landmarks favour. In late 2017 
or early 2018, Mr V issued another claim. Landmark didnt originally respond to the claim, 
and Mr V obtained default judgment. Landmark agreed to pay Mr V the sum set out in the 
default judgment pending an application to strike it out. Landmark then decided not to 
proceed with the strike out application but as Mr V insisted on a hearing, the court directed 
him to pay Landmarks costs of the unnecessary hearing in April 2018.
The arrears continued, and in 2019 Landmark took possession proceedings. Mr V contested 
the possession proceedings, but shortly before the hearing paid a lump sum to Landmark to 
clear the arrears. The court issued a suspended possession order on the condition that Mr V 
continued to pay the monthly payments.  
As a result of all this, and for other reasons, Mr V has been in dispute with Landmark about 
the mortgage for a number of years. The present complaint began in 2019, after he had 
cleared the arrears, when Mr V complained that Landmark had added fees and charges  
including legal costs  to his mortgage balance. Since then Mr V has carried out his own 
researches into the mortgage, including making enquiries of the Land Registry, and his 
complaint has evolved as a result. Mr V now questions the validity of the mortgage and 
whether he should be liable for it  or liable to pay anything beyond the capital initially 
borrowed.
Mr V complains that:
Landmark had added excessive and disproportionate fees and charges to the 
mortgage balance, including legal fees.
At the possession hearing in May 2019, the court declined to make a money 
judgment and made a suspended possession order on the condition that Mr V pay 
£850 per month. Mr V says this means that there is no longer a mortgage debt, and 
he only owes the £850 per month set out in the court order. And the court did not 
order costs, so Landmark is not entitled to recover legal costs from Mr V. 
The term of the mortgage contract Landmark says allows it to add fees and charges 
is an unfair term.
In any case, by adding fees and charges Landmark has acted in breach of court 
orders and the rules of mortgage regulation.
The court rejected Landmarks application for a money judgment, and so Mr V only 
owes, and is only required to pay, what is set out in the suspended possession order.
Northern Rock did not lodge the mortgage terms and conditions with the Land 
Registry appropriately. Landmark and its predecessors have sought to rely on 
various versions of the terms and conditions. But because they have never been able 
to produce a particular set of terms and conditions explicitly referencing his mortgage 
and mortgage account number, the mortgage deed is invalid and unenforceable.
The mortgage was mis-sold because it was unaffordable for him and there was no 
assessment of his interest only repayment strategy. Northern Rock had failed to 
include required information in the mortgage offer. Mr V has already received 
compensation for the sale of the mortgage from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme, in respect of the actions of his mortgage broker. This shows 
the mortgage was unsuitable for him and should never have been granted.
The mortgage offer implies that the standard variable interest rate (SVR) should 
always be 1.84% above the Bank of England base rate. But in practice it has been 
significantly in excess of this. As a result, interest had been overcharged throughout 
the time Mr V had been on the SVR. 
By changing the mortgage account number, Landmark changed the mortgage deed 
without his agreement and so the deed is not valid. 
Landmark sent Mr V a letter setting out that his mortgage had been repaid in full, 
though the letter wasnt addressed to him and didnt refer to his property. Landmark 
said that was an error and the letter actually related to a different customer and 
shouldnt have been sent to Mr V. Mr V says this amounts to a negligent 
misrepresentation, he relied on it to not make further payments, and it entitles him to 
have the mortgage rescinded. Mr V is no longer making payments, or willing to make 
payments, to a mortgage the lender has told him has been redeemed.
Mr Vs complaint has previously been the subject of a jurisdiction decision by another ombudsman. That decision  with which, for the avoidance of doubt, I agree  found that any 
part of Mr Vs complaint that relates to matters before June 2013 (six years before he first 
complained to Landmark) is out of time. That means that in this decision I will not be 
considering the sale or lending decision at the start of the mortgage term, or any fees or 
charges added to the balance, or interest charged, before June 2013.
However, as the other ombudsman also pointed out, in considering the part of Mr Vs 
complaint about the fairness of the interest rate, it will be necessary to consider the whole 
history of the interest rate, including before June 2013. Thats because changes to the 
interest rate before that date may have influenced the interest rate charged from then on, 
and so form part of all the circumstances of the case that I am required to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has complained about a number of different things in relation to his mortgage, some of 
which the previous ombudsman said were out of time. Ill deal with each of his complaints in 
turn.
The sale of the mortgage
Mr Vs complaint here is in two parts  that the mortgage should never have been lent to 
him; and that, as a result, it isnt fair and reasonable for Landmark to seek to recover it from 
him (or recover anything other than the capital he borrowed) now.
I note that the FSCS upheld a complaint about the mortgage adviser and awarded Mr V 
compensation. I havent seen the FSCSs file or the detailed reasons for its decision. But I 
accept that this means that its more likely than not that the mortgage adviser mis-sold this 
mortgage. But its important to note that the advice he received from a mortgage broker is 
separate from the lenders lending decision. 
A mortgage broker acts as the representative and agent of the borrower  in this case Mr V 
 not of the lender. At the time, the rules of mortgage regulation set out that the responsibility 
of the mortgage broker was to advise on Mr Vs requirements and recommend a mortgage 
that was suitable and affordable. Separately to that, it was for the mortgage lender to 
consider  based on the information provided by the broker, unless there were common 
sense grounds for doubting it  whether it was responsible to lend, taking into account the 
borrowers ability to repay the mortgage.
Mr V has referred to mortgage rule MCOB 11.6.2  which requires a lender to consider 
affordability in detail as part of the responsible lending assessment. But this rule did not exist 
at the time; it was introduced in 2014. At the time of the lending decision, the relevant rule 
was MCOB 11.3. 
While MCOB 11.6.3 also includes a requirement to assess affordability where there is a 
variation to or replacement of the mortgage  such as porting, changing repayment type, or 
extending the term  it doesnt apply to matters such as adding fees and charges to the loan 
balance. MCOB 11.6.3 therefore isnt relevant to this complaint.
Under the rules as they were at the time, the duties of a mortgage adviser and a mortgage 
lender are different. It doesnt automatically follow that because the mortgage was mis-sold 
by the mortgage adviser (as the FSCS found), it was also irresponsibly lent by Northern 
Rock on the basis of the information it had at the time.The mortgage was lent in 2006, and therefore any complaint about the lending decision 
would be out of time, as the previous ombudsman concluded. So that isnt something I can 
consider here. That means I cant find that it was irresponsible for Northern Rock to lend. 
And in the absence of such a finding about the conduct of Northern Rock, I cant safely find 
that it isnt fair and reasonable for Landmark to continue to hold Mr V liable for the mortgage 
merely because the FSCS upheld a separate complaint about the actions of a third party.
Mr V has also suggested that because it was recorded that he was relying on investment 
vehicles to repay the mortgage when that was not in fact the case, that invalidates the 
mortgage and makes the mortgage deed unenforceable. But I dont agree about that. 
The sale was in 2006, and Mr V has known since at least 2015 that Northern Rock relied on 
information from the broker about the repayment vehicle he now says was not in fact in 
place. And he knew long before that that this was an interest only mortgage that he would be 
expected to repay, and that if in fact he wouldnt be able to do so, that was enough to tell him 
that something might have gone wrong with the lending decision. That means that the 
complaint about the lending decision is out of time, and not one I can consider, as my fellow 
ombudsman decided. I cant therefore make a finding that it wouldnt be fair for Landmark to 
expect Mr V to repay the mortgage because of this part of his complaint either.
I cant consider what the lender took into account in making the lending decision, as that is 
out of time. But even if the mortgage was lent on the basis of investment vehicles Mr V didnt 
in fact have, I dont think that would make the mortgage unenforceable now, or mean that it 
is unfair for Landmark to expect him to repay it. 
Whether a mortgage is enforceable as a matter of law is a question for the courts. But I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to ask Landmark to write the mortgage off because Mr V 
doesnt have a repayment strategy in place. Thats because its for the borrower to repay the 
mortgage, and make sure they have a strategy for doing so in place. That was made clear in 
the mortgage offer at the time Mr V took the mortgage out. The lender relied on information it 
was given to suggest Mr V had a repayment strategy in the form of investments in deciding 
whether it was responsible to lend. But whether or not it was correct to do so, and if not 
whether that is the fault of the lender the broker or Mr V, the fact remains that Mr V borrowed 
this mortgage and has an obligation to repay it. 
Mr V has referred to a decision of the Court of Appeal1, but I dont think that decision is 
relevant to this case  since it related to a complaint about a mortgage broker, which advised 
its customer to take an interest only mortgage relying on an unsuitable repayment strategy 
which later failed. Northern Rock did not give Mr V advice, the broker did. And Mr V has 
already been compensated for the brokers failings. 
In summary, therefore, I cannot consider Mr Vs complaint that this mortgage was 
irresponsibly lent. But even if it was, I dont think it follows that its not fair and reasonable for 
Landmark to expect Mr V to repay it now.
What are the terms and conditions applicable to this mortgage?
Mr V disputes which terms and conditions apply to this mortgage, and says that because 
there are handwritten notes on the version filed with the Land Registry  which therefore 
differs from the version given to him by Landmark  the incorporation of those terms and 
conditions into the mortgage contract is not valid. He also says that Landmark has not been 
able to provide him with the actual terms and conditions applicable to his mortgage, 
1 Emptage v Financial Services Compensation Scheme [2013] EWCA Civ 729including the right reference numbers, and has misled the court about the applicable terms.
Landmark sent Mr V a copy of Northern Rocks 2005 mortgage conditions, saying they were 
the applicable terms. It also said the same thing to the courts. That was an error, as in fact 
this mortgage is not subject to the 2005 conditions. 
Its unfortunate Landmark made this mistake, as it has fuelled some of Mr Vs later concerns 
and complaints. But I dont think this mistake invalidates the mortgage or means that 
Landmark cant rely on the terms and conditions which actually do apply.
The mortgage offer letter sent to Mr V on 26 September 2006 sets out that Northern Rock 
was willing to offer him a mortgage. It said that the following documents were enclosed with 
the letter, and were all applicable to the mortgage agreement:
The mortgage offer
The tariff of charges
The Mortgage Conditions 2001
The Mortgage Offer  General Conditions
Ive reviewed all these documents. 
The mortgage offer is bespoke to Mr V. It sets out the terms on which Northern Rock was 
prepared to offer Mr V a mortgage, including the amount borrowed, the term and the interest 
rate. 
The mortgage offer general conditions supplements the mortgage offer, defining the terms 
within it and setting out more detail on how the mortgage would operate  including how 
interest would be calculated and charged and how the interest rate could be varied. This is 
the document with the footer ADV282. 
The mortgage conditions 2001 are not directly related to the mortgage offer, or specific to 
Mr V or his own loan. These are the more general conditions applicable to all Northern Rock 
mortgages and cover matters such as each partys rights and obligations in respect of the 
property. This is the document registered with the Land Registry with the footer LEG3 
alongside the mortgage deed. 
I dont think the fact that one of the copies the Land Registry gave Mr V had a stamp or 
some handwritten notes on the cover page and elsewhere invalidates the conditions or 
means they dont apply to his mortgage either. They are clearly Land Registry filing notes 
and record of receipt of the document, as well as minor typographical corrections, and have 
no impact on its content or substance. As the Land Registry explained to Mr V, this was a 
draft version superseded by the final version it also provided to Mr V.
Im satisfied the mortgage offer, the mortgage offer general conditions, and the mortgage 
conditions 2021 are all part of the mortgage contract between Mr V and Northern Rock and 
its successors, including Landmark. 
The mortgage offer sets out how much Mr V borrowed and how he must pay it back, and the 
mortgage offer general conditions interpret and expand on the offer. And the mortgage deed 
sets out the security Mr V gave for that borrowing, with the mortgage conditions 2001 setting 
out in more detail the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to that security. Thats 
why its that document which is included with the mortgage deed provided to the Land Registry, not the mortgage offer general conditions. There was no obligation to lodge the 
mortgage offer or mortgage offer conditions with the Land Registry or file them with the 
deed.
I therefore dont think that there is a conflict or inconsistency here. Its not that either LEG3 
or ADV282 apply  its that both do. One set of conditions relate to and expand on the 
mortgage deed by which Mr V gave security to the lender and the rights and obligations of 
each party in respect of the property; the other set of conditions relate to and expand on the 
mortgage offer by which the lender lent money to Mr V in return for that security and the 
terms on which he was expected to repay it. 
I also dont think it matters that various copies of the standard terms and conditions (that is, 
the documents other than the mortgage offer) have reference numbers that dont match 
each other, or dont match Mr Vs mortgage account number. 
Theres no requirement for all documents to contain a single consistent reference number, or 
indeed any reference number at all. Nor is there a requirement for the mortgage terms and 
conditions to contain Mr Vs offer reference number or mortgage account number. This does 
not render the documents invalid or mean they cant apply to Mr V or his mortgage. They are 
described within the offer covering letter of September 2006, which makes clear they formed 
part of the mortgage contract, and enclosed with that letter. That is enough to make them 
part of the mortgage contract, binding both parties. 
There is no requirement to set out all the terms of a contract in one single document. Its 
often convenient to set out information specific to an individual customer  such as the 
security address, the amount borrowed and the mortgage term  in one document, with 
generic information applicable to all customers in another document.
Mr V has referred to MCOB 7.3.3 R. Ive taken it into account. But I dont think it means he 
has been treated unfairly. This rule says 
The information required by this chapter, MCOB 7 [disclosure at the start of the 
contract and thereafter  such as the mortgage offer and terms and conditions], may 
be provided in more than one document, provided the use of several documents 
does not materially diminish the significance of any information the firm is required to 
give the customer, or the ease with which this can be understood.
This rule allows a lender to use more than one document as part of the overall contract  as 
Northern Rock did here  provided doing so does not impact on the ability of the customer to 
understand the agreement. 
Im satisfied that Northern Rock explained the nature of the agreement and the documents 
that were part of it fairly and reasonably, such that a reasonable customer taking out this 
mortgage would have understood what they were agreeing to. So I dont think there was a 
breach of MCOB 7.3.3 R. 
And Im satisfied this was enough to comply with the regulators Principle 7, which requires a 
firm to pay due regard to its customers information needs, and communicate with them in a 
way thats clear fair and not misleading. 
Ive also considered the caselaw and statute Mr V has pointed to in this respect. But Im not 
persuaded they are relevant to this complaint. And in any case, whether or not the mortgage 
debt or mortgage deed is technically enforceable as a matter of law is a matter for the 
courts. But for the reasons Ive given, taking into account the law, Ive not seen anything which 
seems likely to invalidate the mortgage or the deed, or mean that it is unfair for Landmark to 
collect the resulting debt from Mr V. I think its unlikely a court would conclude that, and for 
the purposes of this decision I proceed on the basis that its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that both sets of conditions are part of Mr Vs mortgage agreement, and that its fair and 
reasonable to take them into account when thinking about whether or not to uphold Mr Vs 
complaint. 
I also think its fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis that there is a valid mortgage 
agreement between Mr V and Landmark, and that  subject to the other matters Ill deal with 
below  Landmark entitled is to expect Mr V to repay it in line with the offer and the terms 
and conditions. That includes both the offer general conditions and the mortgage conditions 
2001. 
The relevance of the change of account number
Mr V complains that Landmark changed his mortgage account number without his consent, 
and that doing so is not permitted and invalidates the mortgage deed. 
I dont think the change of account number makes any difference to the legal status or 
enforceability of the mortgage. The specific account number is not part of the mortgage 
contract itself  its merely a reference number by which Landmark refers to the contract and 
which it uses to identify it. As such, its a matter of administration rather than substance. 
I dont agree that Landmark cant change the account number without Mr Vs consent, or that 
by doing so it has invalidated the mortgage deed. I dont think changing the account number 
makes any difference to whether Landmark is entitled to expect Mr V to repay the mortgage.
Adding legal fees to the mortgage balance and the effect of the court not making a money 
judgment
Mr V has taken legal action against Landmark on two occasions, in 2017 and again in 2018. 
Landmark took legal action against Mr V in 2019. 
I havent seen a court order from 2017, though theres a note on Landmarks files that the 
court found against Mr V and ordered him to pay Landmarks costs. 
In 2018, the court ordered Mr V to pay Landmarks costs in the sum of £1,200 including VAT. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that the court made any other decision in respect of legal 
costs at this time.
Later, Landmark took legal action against Mr V, resulting in a suspended possession order in 
May 2019. The court did not deal with Landmarks application for a money judgment, which 
was adjourned generally, and made no order as to costs.
Ive also reviewed the transaction history for Mr Vs mortgage, up to when he complained in 
2019. These are the transactions relating to legal costs:
LEGAL COSTS £ 1354.20 26/06/2017SOLICITORS COSTS REVERSAL - £ 1354.20 26/06/2017
SOLS INSTRUCTION FEE £ 40.00 29/03/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 1957.80 10/08/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 355.20 10/08/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 2860.80 10/08/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 1573.87 12/11/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 273.60 26/11/2018
SOLICITORS COSTS REVERSAL £ 273.60 26/11/2018
SOLS INSTRUCTION FEE REV - £ 40.00 29/03/2018
LEGAL COSTS £ 2170.80 16/05/2019
LEGAL COSTS £ 6118.20 02/10/2019
The costs in 2017 were added in respect of Mr Vs unsuccessful claim against Landmark. 
But they were removed from the balance again, as Landmark recognised that costs had 
been paid direct following the court order and didnt need to be added to the mortgage 
balance as well. So there was no lasting impact in relation to this, and Landmark has not 
included those costs in the balance it is expecting Mr V to pay now.
In court proceedings, a court may require one party to pay the others costs. Or it may make 
no order as to costs, which generally means that each party has to pay their own costs, 
rather than one paying the others costs. 
The court has not ordered Mr V to pay any of the costs Landmark has added to the 
mortgage balance (other than the 2017 costs, which have been removed again).
The 2018 costs relate to Landmarks costs in defending Mr Vs claim (other than the £1,200 
costs of the April 2018 hearing, as ordered by the court), and the 2019 costs relate to the 
possession proceedings. As the court made no order about these costs, Landmark has not 
added them to the mortgage pursuant to a court order.
However, separate to the court order and court process, there is a term in the mortgage 
terms and conditions which says:
Costs means all Costs and expenses which we incur to any other person in 
connection with the Offer. Our Costs include (but are not limited to) all costs and 
expenses which we incur:
(a) in recovering the Offer debt;
(b) in any legal proceedings concerning the Offer (whether or not you are a party to 
the proceedings)

You agree to pay our reasonable Costs on demand. 
You agree to pay our reasonable Costs in full unless you can show that we acted 
unreasonably in incurring them.
We may charge you interest on Costs and Fees as follows:
(a) If you do not pay our Costs or Fees within fourteen days after we demand them, 
we may charge interest on those Costs from the date we incur them
This is a contractual indemnity  under the terms of the contract between them, Mr V agreed 
to indemnify Northern Rock (and its successors, including Landmark) against any costs it 
incurred in relation to his mortgage. This indemnity is not limited to legal costs awarded by a 
court  it allows Landmark to recover any costs it has incurred from Mr V whether or not a 
court has ordered him to pay them, subject to reasonableness.
Mr V says this is an unfair term. But I dont agree about that. Ive taken into account the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR), which is the relevant law 
applicable to this mortgage. The term is clear and clearly expressed. A term along these 
lines is a standard one in the mortgage industry. It doesnt create a significant imbalance 
between the parties contrary to the requirements of good faith  its not unusual for a 
contract to require one party to indemnify the other against various costs incurred. 
I dont think its unusual or inherently unfair for a term such as this to be in a mortgage 
agreement. And the term doesnt allow the lender an unfettered discretion to add any costs  
they have to be both reasonably incurred and reasonable in amount. Im therefore satisfied 
that its not unfair in principle for Landmark to rely on this term. So Ill go on to consider 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Landmark to rely on it on the specific occasions it did 
so in 2018 and 2019.
The courts in 2018 (other than the April 2018 hearing) and in 2019 did not make costs 
orders. But I dont think that means that Landmark cant add its costs to Mr Vs mortgage 
balance. The absence of a costs order either means that the court didnt consider the 
question of costs at all, or that it didnt think it necessary to interfere with what would happen 
if no order was made. 
Entirely separately to any court order, the terms of the contract allow Landmark to recover 
legal costs from Mr V, and its not unfair for Landmark to do so where the court did not say 
that it should bear its own costs notwithstanding the indemnity. In other words, because the 
court made no order as to costs, Landmark is in my view entitled to rely on the contractual 
indemnity. If the court had expressly said that Landmark should pay its own costs and not 
charge them to Mr V I might think it unfair for Landmark to rely on the contractual indemnity 
 but the court did not say that. 
In May 2019, Landmark wrote to Mr V to say that it had identified it had not given him the 14 
day demand required in the terms and conditions Ive quoted above. It recognised that 
meant it wasnt entitled to charge interest on the fees it had added until notice had been 
served, and so it refunded £99.23 of interest to Mr Vs mortgage. As Landmark wasnt 
entitled to charge this interest until 14 days after giving notice, Im satisfied this was fair and 
reasonable. But I dont think it means that Landmark wasnt entitled to add the fees at all, or 
that it cant charge interest on them now it has given notice. 
Mr V says that as a result of this letter the court refused Landmarks application for a money 
judgment or costs because it found Landmark had been in breach of contract. I havent seen 
a transcript of the hearing  but that is not what the court order says, and the court order 
records the decision of the court. The court order says the money judgment application was 
adjourned generally  which in my experience is not uncommon in repossession cases, 
since its the fact of repossession as much as a money judgment which allows the lender to 
enforce the debt  and is silent as to costs. The court therefore did not make an order that 
Landmark wasnt entitled to recover its costs via the contractual indemnity  and it follows that, subject to the requirement of reasonableness, it can do so.
So its fair and reasonable in principle for Landmark to recover these costs from Mr V in 
2018 and 2019  subject to reasonableness. That being the case, Ive gone on to think about 
whether the costs were reasonably incurred and reasonable in amount. 
Given that the mortgage was in arrears until shortly before the possession hearing, it would 
be difficult for me to say that it was unreasonable for Landmark to take possession 
proceedings  or to be legally represented in doing so. And Im satisfied that the costs 
incurred were actually incurred, and were not unreasonable or excessive compared to the 
level of costs Id generally expect to see in possession cases such as this  particularly 
where, as here, Mr V disputed liability for the mortgage and raised other arguments which 
had to be dealt with, increasing the court time and costs incurred. Therefore Im not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable for Landmark to incur these costs, or that they are 
unreasonable in amount.
Mr V also says that because the court did not make a money judgment, he no longer owes 
anything other than the instalments set out in the possession order. But I dont agree about 
that. Landmarks application for a money judgment was adjourned. The court didnt make a 
decision about the application one way or the other. The court did not make any decision 
about the total sum Mr V owed, only that Landmark would be entitled to repossess the 
property if he didnt make the regular monthly payments. The court order does not override 
the mortgage or mean that Mr V no longer owes the mortgage balance  he does.
Mr V has also pointed to a witness statement by Landmarks solicitor in the 2019 possession 
proceedings. The witness statement says that the mortgage is governed by Northern Rocks 
2005 terms and conditions, and exhibits those terms to the statement. As Ive said above, 
thats not in fact the case  Mr Vs mortgage is subject to the 2001 edition of the terms and 
conditions, not the 2005 edition. Whether this is relevant to the validity of the possession 
order is a matter for the court, not for me. But I dont think a mistaken reference to the wrong 
set of terms and conditions means that Landmark is not entitled to rely on the correct terms 
and conditions when exercising the contractual indemnity to recover its costs, or in expecting 
Mr V to repay the mortgage more generally. 
I therefore dont uphold this part of Mr Vs complaint. Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Landmark to add its legal costs to the mortgage balance, and to charge 
interest on them and seek to recover them from Mr V. And I dont think the fact that the court 
didnt make a money judgment affects its ability to recover the mortgage balance from Mr V.
The interest rate applicable to the mortgage 
The mortgage offer sets out that Mr Vs mortgage was on a fixed rate for the first two years, 
reverting thereafter to the standard variable rate (SVR), then to a discount rate at least 
0.25% below the SVR.
The SVR at the time the mortgage was taken out was 6.84%. At the time, the base rate was 
4.75% - so the SVR was 1.84% above base rate. Between then and 2008, the SVR 
increased. From 2008 the SVR reduced  though not to the same extent as base rate.
Since Mr V took the mortgage out, the SVR and base rate have varied as follows:
Date Base rate SVR Difference between 
base rate and SVR09/11/2006 5.00%
01/12/2006 7.09% 2.09%
11/01/2007 5.25%
01/02/2007 7.34% 2.09%
10/05/2007 5.50%
01/06/2007 7.59% 2.09%
05/07/2007 5.75%
01/08/2007 7.84% 2.09%
06/12/2007 5.50%
01/01/2008 7.69% 2.19%
07/02/2008 5.25%
01/03/2008 7.59% 2.34%
10/04/2008 5.00%
01/05/2008 7.49% 2.49%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 7.34% 2.84%
06/11/2008 3.00%
01/12/2008 5.84% 2.84%
04/12/2008 2.00%
01/01/2009 5.34% 3.34%
08/01/2009 1.50%
01/02/2009 5.09% 3.59%
05/02/2009 1.00%
01/03/2009 4.79% 3.79%
05/03/2009 0.50%
01/04/2009 4.79% 4.29%
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/10/2016 4.64% 4.39%
02/11/2017 0.50%
01/01/2018 4.79% 4.29%
02/08/2018 0.75%
01/10/2018 5.04% 4.29%
11/03/2020 0.50%
19/03/2020 0.10%
01/04/2020 4.39% 4.29%
It can be seen that the SVR has varied around the same time as changes to base rate  
though when base rate fell during the global financial crisis between 2007 and 2009, the 
SVR did not fall by as much. This meant that the difference between base rate and the SVR, 
which was 1.84% when Mr V took out the mortgage, increased shortly afterwards to 2.09% 
and then widened further. It was 4.29% by the time he reverted to the SVR (and later the 
discount rate) in 2012. It has stayed at that margin since then, other than a brief period in 
2016 and 2017 when the margin widened to 4.39% before falling back to 4.29%.
The mortgage offer merely says that the SVR and then the SVR less discount will apply. 
There is no mention of the Bank of England base rate, and no suggestion that the SVR  or 
Mr Vs mortgage more widely  was linked to base rate. 
I dont therefore think that Mr V can have had any reasonable expectation that the SVR 
would be linked to base rate, or that the margin between base rate and the SVR would 
always be 1.84%. And I dont think theres any reasonable basis for implying into the 
mortgage contract a term that this would be the case. I dont therefore think that its inherently unfair that Mr V has been charged more than 1.84% 
above base rate since hes been on the SVR. Ill now go on to consider whether what he was 
actually charged was fair. The interest rate Mr V has been charged results from the 
variations to the SVR the various lenders have made since the mortgage was taken out  as 
set out in the table above.
Ive explained that I can only consider the fairness of interest charged to Mr V since June 
2013  which means variations before that are out of time for the purposes of this complaint. 
However, those decisions are important context for the period I can consider. Thats 
because the level of the SVR during the period I can consider is the product not only of 
decisions to vary it during that period, but earlier decisions in the out of time period. To that 
extent, those earlier decisions are important context for the period I am considering, and 
form part of all the circumstances of the case that I am required by our rules to consider 
when determining the part of the complaint that is in time. Im satisfied that this approach is 
required of me by our rules, and is compatible with a recent decision of the High Court2 on 
this question. 
It's clear that each time the successive lenders made a decision to vary the SVR, the SVR 
remained at that level until the next time they decided to vary the SVR. This means that the 
SVR as it was in June 2013, at the start of the period I can consider, was the sum of the 
parts of what went before. And therefore if any of those earlier decisions were made for 
reasons not permitted by the terms of the mortgage agreement, that might mean that it was 
unfair for them to be relied on as contributing to the level of the SVR (and therefore the 
interest charged to Mr V) during the period I can consider.
The fairness of the contractual term
When Northern Rock, and later NRAM and Landmark, varied the SVR they did so relying on 
the terms and conditions. 
Section 7 of the Mortgage Offer General Conditions 2001 (the document Mr V has referred 
to as ADV282) says:
7. Changing the Interest Rate
7.1 We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time.
7.2 We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one of more of the 
following reasons applies:
(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders;
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
2 Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited, R (On the Application Of) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2022] EWHC 1979 (Admin)generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours;
(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
Standard Variable Rate is defined in section 1 as
 such rate as we from time to time decide to set as the base from which to 
calculate Interest on our variable rate mortgage loans (disregarding the restrictions 
on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). The current Standard 
Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. We may change this 
rate from time to time under condition 7 or the Offer. If we transfer or dispose of the 
Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate to its own base 
rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will then be the 
Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the person to whom we make the 
transfer may make further changes under condition 7 or the Offer.
Ive already explained why Im satisfied this term is applicable to Mr Vs mortgage. Mr V says 
in addition that this is not a fair term. 
Ive taken into account the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR), 
which was the relevant law at this time and applicable to this contract. 
Reversion rates  such as the SVR  serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to 
provide for future changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of 
funds are by nature difficult to foresee. There may be other factors relevant to the price 
which vary over time  such as the risk of default or arrears. This is particularly true of a long 
term arrangement such as a mortgage contract. 
So Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself didnt include a rate variation clause, its 
reasonable to assume that national law would provide for a mechanism allowing a lender to 
vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think the average customer could reasonably be 
assumed to accept this and agree to it in hypothetical negotiations. 
I think the real issues regarding fairness are whether the terms in this agreement go further 
than reasonably necessary to protect the lenders legitimate interests, whether the SVR 
variation clauses are sufficiently transparent, and whether there were significant barriers to 
Mr V dissolving the contract. 
Taking all that into account, I think theres a real possibility a court may conclude that the 
variation term does not meet the transparency requirement. While its grammatically clear 
and easy to follow, the term is broad and gives the successive lenders significant scope for 
discretion about when the SVR can be varied and by how much. 
Section 7.1 allows reductions to the SVR for any reason, and is therefore the broadest part 
of the term. But because this creates an unfettered ability to reduce the interest rate payable, 
I dont consider this clause creates a significant imbalance to the detriment of the consumer 
contrary to the requirements of good faith  because while there are no restrictions on the 
lenders power to reduce the interest rate, doing so is in the consumers favour and the 
absence of restrictions increases the circumstances in which Mr V might benefit from a 
reduction in his interest rate. But I consider that the way in which the term is exercised could 
potentially lead to unfairness in individual cases.
Section 7.2 contains the following provisions, allowing the lender to increase the SVR:there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours
for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates we 
pay to our own funders
we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability
there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours
I think theres a real possibility a court might find that these clauses are not sufficiently 
transparent such that an informed consumer would have agreed to them in a hypothetical 
individual negotiation. They give the lender a broad discretion, and may enable it to take into 
account possibly irrelevant factors  for example, a general increase in shortfall risk on 
mortgage accounts owned by other lenders in respect of borrowers not similar to this 
borrower. 
Im not persuaded such a consumer would necessarily be able to understand the 
mechanism for any decision taken in reliance on these clauses, or be able to understand the 
economic consequences of agreeing to them. Nor would such a customer be able easily to 
challenge an increase made in reliance on them. 
Ive said theres a legitimate purpose in variable reversion rates, such as an SVR, in allowing 
a lender to vary the price of the agreement to reflect changes in its costs. But these clauses 
seem to me to be wider than reasonably necessary to achieve that purpose. And they do not 
explain to the consumer the method for determining the new price. Good commercial 
reasons and prudent level of profitability are vague and unclear, and it is not immediately 
apparent why shortfalls on dissimilar mortgages owned by other lenders are relevant to this 
lenders risk position.
For those reasons, while a term enabling the lenders to increase the SVR to reflect 
increases in cost of funds or other legitimate factors would in principle be a fair term, I think 
section 7.2 specifically goes beyond what national law would imply into a contract such as 
this. I think theres a real possibility a court would find that this section causes a significant 
imbalance between the parties and that its unlikely a hypothetical consumer would have 
agreed to a term that allowed the lender such a broad and undefined discretion to increase 
the SVR.
I have also considered whether  at the time the contract was taken out  there were likely to 
be such significant barriers to Mr V dissolving the contract that he could not effectively make 
use of the right to do so. That is something I need to consider both for the sake of deciding 
whether the term may be on the grey list in Schedule 2 of the UTCCR that may be regarded 
as being unfair, as well as part of the wider analysis of whether the term creates a significant 
imbalance contrary to the requirement of good faith.  If there were such barriers, that may 
mean that the variation terms are unfair. 
I have reminded myself that  in assessing whether the term itself is unfair - the test is not 
whether there were significant practical barriers for Mr V at the point at which the SVR was 
varied, but rather whether it was foreseeable at the time the contract was entered into that 
there may have been such barriers.There was no early repayment charge (ERC) applicable to Mr Vs mortgage whilst he was on 
the SVR. So when NRAM and Whistletree exercised their rights to vary the SVR after 
reversion in 2012, if Mr V was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to 
transfer the mortgage to another lender if he wished without having to pay a charge to end 
the existing contract with either lender. And similarly he was free to do so if he was unhappy 
with the level of the SVR at the point of reversion because of variations up to that point.
That may not in fact have been possible, because Mr V was sporadically in arrears from 
2010 to 2017, and then more significantly in arrears until 2019. So it might not have been 
possible for him to move his mortgage to another lender. But that Mr V would later 
experience arrears is not something that would reasonably have been foreseeable at the 
time he took the mortgage out. 
I dont therefore think that there were practical barriers to Mr V moving his mortgage to 
another lender which were foreseeable at the time the mortgage was taken out. 
As Ive said, theres a possibility a court might find that the SVR variation clause wasnt 
sufficiently transparent. But the presence of an arguably unfair term doesnt necessarily of 
itself mean that there has been actual unfairness such that I should uphold the complaint. Its 
important to think not just about what the term says, but also how it was used, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So while I have taken account of the relevant law, Ive also thought more broadly about 
whether the way the term has been used has resulted in Mr V being treated in a way that 
was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It is that question I will focus on next.
Whether the lenders exercised the variation term fairly
Prior to the period I can consider, all the variations were made while Mr V was on a fixed 
rate, and so didnt directly impact the amount he had to pay at the time. But the sum total of 
those variations meant that on reversion in 2012 the SVR was lower  but at a higher margin 
over base rate  than it was when Mr V took the mortgage out in 2006.
While Ive said that there is a possibility that a court might find the specific SVR variation 
term to be an unfair term as drafted, I dont think that a term allowing a mortgage lender to 
vary (including to reduce) its SVR is unfair in principle. I think the relevant question is 
therefore whether Northern Rock and then NRAM exercised their powers to reduce the SVR 
in line with the terms and conditions.
We have received evidence about how the SVR was reviewed over time, and the decisions 
Northern Rock and NRAM took from time to time to reduce it, as well as evidence about 
NRAMs broader circumstances and commercial strategy at the time which form the context 
in which it took those decisions. DISP 3.5.9 R (2) permits me to receive information in 
confidence where appropriate, such that only an edited version, summary or description is 
disclosed to the other party. In this case, I consider that to be appropriate and so we have 
not shared that evidence with Mr V. But I will summarise it in this part of my decision.
The relevant period is from late 2007 to early 2009, when the Bank of England base rate fell 
sharply, and to record lows, during the global financial crisis. At the same time, the UK 
mortgage market was going through a period of significant change and upheaval. The 
funding model of mortgage lenders changed at this time, as did the prudential and regulatory 
requirements imposed on them. During this period the SVR was reduced  but the margin 
above base rate increased. At the time, Northern Rocks mortgage lending business was largely funded by wholesale 
funding, the cost of which was defined by reference to LIBOR rather than base rate. Before 
the financial crisis, LIBOR generally followed base rate  and so changes to LIBOR tended 
to take place broadly in line with changes to base rate, and so changes to base rate tended 
to be reflected in changes to cost of funding. And the same was largely true of Northern 
Rocks retail funding streams, which also contributed to funding its mortgage lending 
business.
However, during the financial crisis, there was an increasing disconnect between base rate 
and LIBOR  with the result that reductions in base rate were not matched by reductions to 
the same extent in LIBOR or cost of funding. Access to wholesale funding became harder 
and more expensive as wholesale funders became more concerned by risk of default  
meaning that where funding was available, margins over LIBOR increased even as LIBOR 
itself decreased. At this time Northern Rocks credit rating was impaired, and it became 
increasingly difficult for it to raise and service its wholesale funding. At the same time, it saw 
a substantial reduction in the retail deposits it held as customers moved elsewhere.
Northern Rock received a government loan in September 2007 to try to avert its collapse. 
There were conditions attached to the loan which impacted Northern Rocks wider strategy 
and cost of funds. Then in February 2008, Northern Rock was nationalised and restructured. 
Following the nationalisation, as part of state aid rules, there were limits placed on the size 
and scope of the business. Assets  such as parts of its loan book  perceived to be higher 
quality (in risk and prudential terms) were transferred to the private sector and those 
perceived to be lower quality retained in the nationalised vehicle that became NRAM. This 
process increased the overall credit risk of the retained book  which also impacted cost of 
funding.
As with any lender, NRAM was required to balance the needs of servicing its funding 
streams (notably the government loan) with the interests of its customers. During this period, 
it reduced its SVR on several occasions. Although it didnt reduce the SVR to the same 
extent that base rate reduced, Ive explained that its costs were not directly linked to, and 
increasingly separate from, base rate at this time. 
Ive not seen any evidence that the reductions it made to the SVR were arbitrary or unfair, or 
led to an excessive SVR being charged. While NRAMs SVR was at the higher end of 
mortgage SVRs across the industry at this time, it was not an outlier. Many lenders charged 
lower SVRs  but many lenders charged higher SVRs, including mainstream lenders. While 
rates charged by other lenders did not directly impact NRAMs own cost of funding, that 
comparison does show that similar pressures were faced across the industry and led  in 
terms of overall SVR levels  to similar results. And that is a relevant factor for me to 
consider in thinking about whether NRAM acted fairly.
Taking all that into account, I am not persuaded that Northern Rock and then NRAM 
operated the SVR variation clause in an unfair way when setting and varying the interest rate 
applied to Mr Vs mortgage. Even if a court were to find that the relevant terms were unfair 
pursuant to UTCCR, Im not persuaded that the exercise of those terms by Northern Rock 
and then NRAM resulted in an unfair SVR payable (subject to the discount) by Mr V from 
June 2013.
After June 2013, there were no further changes to the SVR until changes to base rate in 
2016. When base rate reduced in 2016, Landmark didnt pass on the reduction in full  
although base rate reduced by 0.25%, the SVR (and so Mr Vs discount rate) only reduced 
by 0.15%, increasing the margin over base rate to 4.39%. This was reversed in 2018, when 
base rate increased by 0.25% but Landmark increased the SVR by 0.15%.So Ive thought about whether it was fair that Landmark didnt pass on the base rate 
changes in full when reducing the rate in November 2016, and when increasing it in January 
2018. 
Landmark has explained to us how it made that decision, and the sorts of factors it took into 
account. The detailed information it has given us about that is also commercially sensitive, 
and so its something that again I think is appropriate for the ombudsman service to receive 
in confidence. 
But in summary, Landmark has explained that it considered in 2016 whether or not to pass 
on the base rate cut. Its explained that the interest rates it charges are not based on or 
directly linked to the Bank of England base rate; theyre linked to the costs it has to pay itself 
in respect of the funds lent on its mortgages. It incurs those costs on an ongoing basis. It 
calculated that its own costs would only reduce enough to justify a 0.15% reduction, so it 
reduced its SVR by that amount rather than the full 0.25% base rate cut. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that was fair. Landmark recognised that base rate 
had fallen and that its customers might expect it to reduce the SVR, as other lenders had  
even though it wasnt contractually required to do so, it reduced the SVR (and so Mr Vs 
discount rate) by the amount it expected its own costs to fall, balancing the interests of its 
customers in reducing the interest charged to them and its own interests in not reducing its 
revenues by more than its costs reduced. And when base rate rose in late 2017, reversing 
the 2016 fall, Landmark didnt pass on the full base rate rise  rather, it reversed the 2016 
cut it had made to its own SVR at the start of 2018.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that Landmark and its predecessors charged Mr V a 
fair rate of interest. And so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either. 
The letter telling Mr V his mortgage had been repaid
Landmark sent Mr V a letter about his mortgage. Enclosed with the letter was another letter, 
addressed to another customer. That letter did not include Mr Vs name, address, mortgage 
account number or any other information about Mr V. It was clearly a letter intended for 
another customer entirely about that customers mortgage.
The letter said that the mortgage had been fully redeemed. Mr V says that he relied on this 
letter to believe that his own mortgage had been redeemed. He says that Landmark should 
stick to that. Or, alternatively, that he is entitled to have his mortgage contract rescinded 
because of a negligent misrepresentation.
I dont agree about that. As Ive said, questions of law are ultimately a matter for the courts. 
So it would be for a court to say whether this mistake renders Mr Vs mortgage 
unenforceable.
But, taking into account the relevant law, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
expect Landmark to rescind Mr Vs mortgage, write it off or treat it as redeemed. And I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Landmark is no longer entitled to expect 
Mr V to make mortgage payments in the belief that his mortgage has been redeemed.
There was clearly a mistake. This letter referred to another customer, and another property, 
entirely. It shouldnt have been sent to Mr V in an envelope alongside a letter about his own 
mortgage.However, it should have been obvious to Mr V that this was a mistake in sending him a letter 
about another customers mortgage. I dont think Mr V can have reasonably understood the 
letter to mean that his own mortgage had been paid off, or that he would no longer have to 
make payments. Mr V knew very well he hadnt paid it off, so he cant reasonably have been 
induced into believing he had when he received the letter. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect Landmark to proceed as if Mr Vs mortgage 
had been redeemed. I dont think Mr V can reasonably expected it to have done so. It follows 
that if Mr V has chosen to withhold payments on the basis that  following this letter  he no 
longer owes Landmark any money (when he can have no reasonable basis for that belief), 
Landmark is entitled to take any action it would ordinarily take in respect of a mortgage 
which has fallen into arrears because a customer has decided to withhold payments. I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint either.
Conclusion
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, and taken into account everything Mr Vs said. 
While I understand he feels strongly about the situation, and the arguments hes made, Im 
afraid Im unable to agree with him. Im not persuaded that Landmark or its predecessors 
have charged Mr V unfair interest, or that Landmark has acted unfairly in adding legal fees to 
the loan balance. And Ive not seen anything that would lead me to conclude that the 
balance its seeking to recover is incorrect or unfair, or that its unreasonable for Landmark to 
expect Mr V to repay his mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman