DRN-4497554
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited irresponsibly gave her two 
running account credit agreements she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs E applied for a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £1,000. The limit was increased eight times until it reached £5,000 in 
October 2021. Mrs E also applied for a second catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct 
in November 2021, she was given a credit limit of £1,000 on this account, bringing the total 
amount of credit provided by Shop Direct to £6,000.
In 2022, Mrs E complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts should not have been 
given to her. She said appropriate affordability checks werent completed before lending to 
her and if they had been Shop Direct would have seen she couldnt afford the credit. 
Shop Direct responded to say that it didnt think it had acted unfairly when lending to her. It 
said it had completed affordability checks which didnt reveal any concerns about her ability 
to repay the borrowing.
I sent Mrs E and Shop Direct my provisional decision on 22 November 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Prior to lending to Mrs E, Shop Direct needed to complete proportionate affordability 
checks to ensure the lending would be affordable and sustainable for her. It also 
needed to do this each time it sought to significantly increase the credit it was 
providing to her. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete each time, as 
what is considered proportionate will vary with each lending decision. In deciding 
what was proportionate, Shop Direct needed to take into account things such as (but 
not limited to): the amount of credit, the cost of credit, the size of any regular 
repayments and Mrs Es specific circumstances.
Shop Direct doesnt have much information about the application or checks it 
completed for the first account and what it has provided has been contradictory in 
places. It says that it verified Mrs Es income to be £21,000 per year but has 
provided no supporting evidence to demonstrate how it obtained this information or 
verified it.
It has also provided copies of its credit checks both for the account opening and for 
each month following that. However, the information for the checks completed at 
account opening (which are limited) appear to suggest Mrs E had over £45,000 in 
credit card limits when the checks it did each month after the application show her 
credit card limits to be around £3,800. Shop Direct in response to our investigators 
assessment said it could not have seen the figure of £45,000, yet it has supplied it to 
us. All of this means I can place almost no weight on the evidence Shop Direct has 
provided about the checks it did at account opening because not only is it 
contradictory, but it appears Shop Direct are unclear about what it has even seen 
and provided.
Mrs Es evidence appears to be equally contradictory. Shop Direct says that in her 
initial complaint Mrs E said that she earned between £1,500 and £2,000 per month 
when applying for the first account. But Mrs E has provided copies of her bank 
statements from around the time which suggest her income was around half this 
figure. So, its unclear whether Mrs E has provided incomplete or inaccurate 
information to our service or did so as part of her initial complaint to Shop Direct.
Im mindful that the initial credit limit was £1,000 and that it was a running account 
catalogue shopping facility. This means Mrs E wasnt free to use the credit as she 
wished  she was limited to using it at a particular retailer. Ive also noted that Mrs E 
was accepted for a joint mortgage around one month after entering into this credit 
agreement (to a value of around £180,000). The affordability checks conducted for a 
mortgage are significantly more thorough than what might have been expected for 
Shop Directs facility.
It appears Mrs Es existing credit card facilities at the time of the application for the 
first account were around £3,800. There appears to have been no evidence of 
repayment difficulties on her credit file either. With the added context of her 
successful mortgage application shortly afterwards, I find it unlikely Mrs Es financial 
circumstances were in such a place that providing her with a £1,000 credit limit for a 
catalogue account was unreasonable.
Therefore, even if I thought Shop Directs affordability checks had been insufficient 
for the account opening, Ive not seen anything to make me think that more detailed 
checks would likely have led to a different lending decision. While Mrs E has 
provided copies of her bank statements from around the time, Ive not seen anything 
in those that would indicate a limit of £1,000 was unaffordable. I dont therefore think 
Shop Direct acted unfairly in opening the first account.
The credit limit was increased to £1,500 in February 2017. The only material change 
I can see in Mrs Es financial circumstances from the credit check Shop Direct 
completed was the inclusion of her monthly mortgage repayment (which she was 
sharing with her partner). This effectively increased her monthly outgoings by an 
additional £220. In that time Mrs E had made a small number of purchases on her 
Shop Direct account, most of which had been under a buy-now-pay-later 
arrangement. Shed only used around two thirds of the available limit and made her 
payments on time. I dont think there was anything within the checks that Shop Direct 
completed that ought to have caused it concern about Mrs Es ability to repay a 
larger limit of £1,500. I therefore think it acted fairly when it increased the limit the 
first time. 
The limit was increased to £2,000 in September 2017. At this time Shop Directs 
credit checks indicated a number of concerning factors. It could see that Mrs E had 
been regularly going over her credit limits on her credit cards. The number of 
unsecured credit commitments had also slightly increased and what it calculated as 
her regular monthly debt repayments had almost doubled since the last limit increase 
only around six months earlier.
Shop Directs own checks indicated that Mrs E was likely spending around half of her 
monthly income on repaying debts. Based on all of this, I think it ought to have 
completed more robust affordability checks, including verifying her income and 
finding out more about her committed expenditure.Mrs E has provided copies of her bank statements from around this time in 2017. 
She has provided statements from two different accounts and as Ive only seen two 
current accounts on her credit file, Im satisfied these likely contained her only 
sources of income. Mrs E earned around £930 per month which was made up of a 
combination of employed earnings and benefits. As Shop Directs own checks 
indicated that her monthly credit commitments at this time were likely to be around 
£769, I think any reasonable attempts to appropriately verify Mrs Es income would 
likely have led Shop Direct to conclude that further credit would be unaffordable for 
her. I therefore think it made an unfair lending decision when it increased her limit to 
£2,000.
For completeness, I think it acted unfairly with each subsequent limit increase too, as 
I think reasonable and proportionate checks at those intervals (including when it 
opened the second account) would likely still have shown the lending to be 
unaffordable to her. While I accept that over the course of the lending relationship 
with Shop Direct, Mrs E had few missed payments and on occasion cleared the 
entire balance in full (on four occasions she paid in excess of £1,000, including one 
payment of £4,500), this doesnt mean she was financially secure.
Mrs Es income did increase to around £1,500 much later, but she also continued to 
borrow more from other lenders. The large payments Mrs E made to Shop Direct 
appear to coincide with her taking out loans from other providers. So, these werent 
funds she had, but funds she had borrowed from elsewhere resulting in her overall 
debt increasing.
Over the course of the lending relationship, according to Shop Directs own credit 
checks the number of live credit accounts Mrs E held went from 5 (when she opened 
the first account) to 25. The amount she needed to repay and the amount she owed 
to creditors also exponentially increased. So, while she continued to maintain 
payments with Shop Direct, I cant agree that there were no signs of financial 
difficulty present on the credit checks it completed and any reasonable further 
enquiries would always likely have shown further borrowing to be unaffordable to her.
Both Mrs E and Shop Direct accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. Im therefore 
satisfied that Shop Direct acted unfairly when it increased the credit limit on Mrs Es account 
to £2,000. It should therefore put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to:
Re-work account one as if the limit had never been increased above £1,500. This 
means refunding any interest (including buy-now-pay-later interest), fees, charges 
and insurances (not already refunded) that were charged as a result of the balance 
exceeding £1,500.Re-work account two refunding all interest (including buy-now-pay-later interest), 
fees, charges and insurances (not already refunded).
If the re-work results in Mrs E having paid back more than she borrowed, then any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Shop Direct should add 8% simple interest 
per year on any refund from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
It should also remove any adverse information it has recorded on her credit file since 
September 2017.
Or, if after the re-work there is still a balance outstanding, then Shop Direct should 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs E for the outstanding amount. Once 
Mrs E has repaid the capital Shop Direct should remove any adverse information it 
might have recorded on her credit file since September 2017.
If Shop Direct considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide her with a certificate showing how much it has taken off so she can reclaim 
that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman