DRN-3978037
The complaint
Mr J complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr J says the lending increased his debt and he couldnt afford to repay it.
What happened
In April 2020, 118 118 Money lent Mr J a loan for £1,000. The interest on the loan was 
£732.56 and Mr J had to make 24 monthly repayments of £72.19. Mr J has struggled to keep 
up with his monthly repayments and there is an outstanding balance on the loan.
Mr J complained through a representative to 118 118 Money, it didnt uphold his complaint 
and so he referred the complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that 118 118 Money didnt do enough before agreeing 
to lend to Mr J.
Our adjudicator thought 118 118 Money should have taken its checks further but found that 
had 118 118 Money taken its checks further it would have likely still lent as there was 
nothing within Mr Js financial circumstances at the time that suggested he couldnt afford 
the monthly repayments.
Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr J didnt say why he disagreed 
with the adjudicator and so I dont know what he specifically disagrees with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account 
things such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. A business should also take into account and react appropriately to what it knew 
about the consumer at the time it made its lending decision.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that during the application process, it asked 
Mr J about his monthly income, living expenses and credit commitments. It also searched Mr 
Js credit file.
Mr J declared his monthly income as £2,449 and his living costs including regular credit 
commitments as £1,400.25. Mr J said the loan was for debt consolidation. The results of the 
credit search showed Mr J had historic defaults from 2014 and had a number of active credit 
account. Those results showed Mr J was paying more than he declared towards his credit 
commitments.
The historic defaults still had outstanding balances on them and so Mr J was repaying 
historic debts on three accounts and at least five other active credit accounts. It is also 
unclear which debts Mr J was looking to consolidate and I cant see that 118 118 Money 
took into account the effect of any consolidation to understand how that may have impacted 
Mr Js finances.
Given the above, I think there was sufficient concern to have prompted 118 118 Money to 
have taken its checks further.
Mr J has provided his provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the 
loan and from what I can see in the three months before the loan, his income varied from 
around £2,164 to £2,476. I cant see that he was gambling or had any obvious signs of 
financial difficulties at the time of the loan. From what I can see, his regular living costs and 
credit commitments varied from around £1,600 to £1,800 and would have left him with 
sufficient disposable income to repay the £72.19 per month towards this loan. 
On that basis, I think even if 118 118 Money had taken its checks further it would likely have 
found that Mr J could afford the loan at the time and would have made a fair decision to lend. 
I appreciate Mr J struggled to keep up with the loan repayments within a short time of taking 
the loan but the information available at the time he took out the loan suggests he could 
afford the loan and so I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to lend.
As theres still a balance outstanding, Id remind 118 118 Money of its duty to treat Mr J fairly 
in a positive and sympathetic way as he appears to be struggling to repay the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold his complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman