DRN-4337961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained that when Mr V tried paying for items online with his Lloyds 
Bank Plc (Lloyds) debit card, he is presented with a message saying that a verification 
code will be sent to his phone. Mr V says that no code was received and so the transactions 
timed out.
Mr V is unhappy with the general service he has received from Lloyds. He says he contacted 
Lloyds a number of times to try and get the matter rectified, but says it has not been 
resolved, even though Lloyds said it has been.
Mr V is also unhappy that Lloyds chose to send the verification codes to his landline rather 
than to his mobile.
As this matter is specifically in relation to Mr Vs debit card, I have only referred to Mr V 
throughout this decision.
What happened
After Mr V raised his complaint with Lloyds, Lloyds issued a final response letter on 
22 September 2022 that explained that his debit card payment on 3 August 2022 had been 
blocked for a security check. Lloyds explained that as it had not been able to speak with 
Mr V, itd blocked the next attempted payment on 9 and 13 August 2022. Lloyds explained 
that its fraud team still needed to speak with Mr V and provided him with a telephone number 
to call.
Lloyds apologised to Mr V for the amount of time hed spent trying to reach its fraud team 
and for being passed to different departments on 13 August 2022, and so it paid Mr V £50 in 
recognition of the inconvenience he incurred.
After Mr V had referred his complaint to our service, one of our investigators assessed the 
complaint and he concluded that there was no information in the evidence that Lloyds 
provided, to show that it was at fault for Mr V not receiving the text messages containing the 
verification code. The adjudicator also didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
because it tried sending the messages to Mr Vs landline instead to see if that resolved 
matters. The investigator concluded that the £50 paid by Lloyds was reasonable redress for 
the difficulties Mr V experienced in trying to contact Lloyds.
The investigator also explained that Mr V will need a raise a separate complaint if he is 
unhappy that Lloyds voice recognition software didnt work when he tried calling Lloyds.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr V has asked for a very detailed assessment of everything that has 
occurred in this complaint. Although I understand why Mr V has asked for this, I have 
focused on the key aspects of this complaint in this decision. But I would like to assure Mr V 
that I have considered all the information he has provided. And having reviewed everything, I 
dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Overall, I think its clear that Mr V did experience difficulties in making a payment online with 
his debit card. Mr V says that he never received a verification code, and this led to his 
attempts to verify the payment to time out. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr V says and this 
seems to be reflected (at least partially) in the evidence that Lloyds has provided  which 
indicate that the verification attempts on the 13 August 2022 were unsuccessful as they 
timed out, which is consistent with what Mr V has said.
I appreciate that such an experience is frustrating, especially as Mr V tried to make the 
payments a few times, yet faced the same issue each time. I can see that there has been a 
lot of focus on whether the verification codes were or werent sent to Mr V. But it seems to 
be the case that Mr V couldnt proceed with the payment on 3 August 2022 because - as 
Lloyds said in its letter dated 10 September 2022 - it had placed a security block on his card. 
Again, I recognise that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr V. But equally, I cant say that 
Lloyds was being unreasonable by doing this. Afterall, its fraud prevention systems are there 
to detect payments that could potentially be fraudulent and therefore protect account holders 
from suffering a loss.
It also seems that as Lloyds had been unable to speak to Mr V about the payment, the block 
hadnt been lifted since 3 August 2022. So in the circumstances, it seems to be most likely 
the case that Mr V experienced further issues when trying to use his debit card for online 
payments on 13 August 2022 because of the block that had previously been applied to his 
account.
Mr V says that the matter with his debit card is, as far as he is aware, still ongoing. Whereas 
Lloyds has said that it is not aware from its system records of any remaining issue with 
Mr Vs debit card. 
Because of this, in an attempt to look into Mr Vs concerns further, we asked Mr V for 
evidence that the issue is still unresolved - such as further unsuccessful attempts to use the 
debit card to pay for items online since August 2022. 
However, Mr V has not provided any such evidence. On the contrary, Mr V responded by 
saying the investigator has never bothered to sort the problem and simply said that the 
problem, as far as he was aware, was still ongoing.  
It is the case that our service can only go on the evidence that is available. But Mr V has not 
provided any evidence to show that there still is an issue when using his debit card for online 
payments. So in the circumstances, I can only reasonably conclude that the matter likely 
was a one off issue that Mr V faced in August 2022.
Lloyds has checked its records for Mr V and it says that there are no outstanding blocks or 
indicators for Mr V and says that there have been two payments since August 2022  which 
show the payments were authenticated and successful. So based on all the evidence that is 
available, Im unable to conclude that there is an outstanding issue with Mr V not receiving 
the verification codes for online payments when using his debit card.
I understand that Mr V is also unhappy that Lloyds tried sending the verification codes to his 
landline without his consent. However, I cant see that Lloyds was being unreasonable by 
doing this. It only did this to try and troubleshoot the problem that Mr V said he was 
experiencing. Attempting to send the codes to a different telephone number that it already 
had stored for Mr V seems like a reasonable approach to take to show that codes were 
being sent out. Although I understand it wasnt successful in Mr Vs case, possibly because  
he has a nuisance call blocker on his landline.
Finally, Mr V has said that he had to contact Lloyds a number of times to resolve this matter. 
I recognise that it wouldve been frustrating for him, and he was on the phone for lengthy periods of time. Lloyds has already paid Mr V £50 to reflect the inconvenience and 
frustration this matter has caused him. 
When considering if this is a reasonable amount of compensation, I have to bear in mind that 
there is a general level of inconvenience that we all face in day-to-day life or when dealing 
with financial businesses or when things dont go quite as they should do  that doesnt 
warrant compensation. But I can see that Mr V has had long wait times when calling Lloyds 
and has been passed between different departments within Lloyds. I recognise that this 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr V and I think Lloyds couldve handled matters better in 
assisting Mr V in removing the block from his card. So taking everything into account, I think 
that the £50 compensation paid by Lloyds fairly reflects the inconvenience that Mr V 
experienced. Because of this, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further in relation to 
this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman