DRN-3141022
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, called an Additions Active account; and then added two packs of potential benefits, 
called a Tech Pack and a Travel Pack, to a fee-free account without his permission. 
Barclays charged Mr S monthly fees for both the Additions Active account and the two 
additional packs. He thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees paid. 
What happened
Barclays has told us that its records show it sold the Additions Active account to Mr S in 
August 2011 and then switched him to a fee-free account, with the two additional packs, 
during January 2017. I think Barclays records about this are probably reliable and I have 
taken this account history to be correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Barclays 
had acted unfairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays should refund any 
money to Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr S and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
As this complaint covers two different events, separated by around six years, to make sure I 
havent missed anything, I have considered each event individually. 
The way Barclays sold Mr S the Additions Active account in 2011
Both Barclays and Mr S have told us that it sold the Additions Active account to him during a 
meeting in one of its branches. In 2011, along with other banks, Barclays was allowed to sell 
packaged bank accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Barclays used for Mr S, as well as giving him a choice, I would have 
expected it to tell him about the Additions Active accounts costs and benefits fairly and 
clearly; and in an advised sale I would also have expected it to check that the account was 
appropriate for his circumstances. 
The main point of Mr Ss complaint is that he doesnt think Barclays told him about the 
Additions Active accounts cost. He has said that at the time he was employed by a staffing 
agency, was working for Barclays through that agency, and Barclays told him that he could 
have the Additions Active account for free. Hes told us that he only found out that he was 
paying the monthly fees several years later.
Barclays has denied that it told Mr S that he could have the Additions Active account for free. 
Its said it told him about both the costs and benefits. To support its position, it has sent us a 
copy of a letter and an associated form from the time. The letter was addressed to Mr S and 
the opening sentence said: 
Were delighted youve decided to open and an Additions Active account for a fee of 
£15 per calendar month.
The form had several statements about the Additions Active account. One said: 
I have chosen this account and I am aware that other accounts are available which do 
not offer any additional  features and do not have a monthly fee.
The statement has been ticked and Mr S has signed underneath. 
Obviously, I cant tell exactly what Barclays said, or didnt say, during the meeting, but I very 
much doubt that it said Mr S could have the Additions Active account for free when its letter 
told him the opposite and set out the monthly fee. From the second statement I have quoted, 
Im also satisfied that Barclays let Mr S know the he had a choice to take a different account, 
without a fee.
I understand that Barclays did give Mr S a staff discount on the monthly fee, and for a while 
(Im not sure how long) he paid less than the £15 per month stated in the letter. But as this 
was to his advantage, I do not think Barclays caused him any loss. 
There isnt any dispute that Barclays told Mr S about the benefits of the Additions Active 
account during the meeting. Hes said that it told him these included a car breakdown 
service and other insurance. One of these other types of insurance covered mobile phones 
and I understand that Mr S registered phones for this cover. He also used the car breakdown 
service. 
In 2011, Barclays usual practice was to sell Additions Active accounts on an information-
only basis. On our questionnaire, Mr S said Barclays had recommended the Additions Active 
account to him. However, he linked this to his comments about it telling him that as a 
member of staff he was entitled to the account for free, which I dont think it did. I havent 
seen sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think that Barclays changed its usual 
procedures for Mr S. I think it sold the Additions Active account to him on an information-only 
basis. Im satisfied that it met its obligations to Mr S and didnt mis-sell him the Additions 
Active account.
The way Barclays switched Mr S to a fee-free account in 2017 but added a Tech pack and a 
Travel Pack for which it charged fees. 
During 2016, Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions Active account from its customers. 
This was a commercial decision, which it was allowed to make providing it told its customers 
what it was planning and gave them reasonable choices.
Barclays has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to Mr S about changing his account. It 
sent the first letter in September 2016. This letter told Mr S that Barclays proposed to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account with no monthly fee, but that it would add a Tech Pack and 
a Travel Pack. The letter explained that Barclays would add these two packs as their 
potential benefits were similar to those of Mr S s Additions Active account. The letter told Mr 
S how much the two packs would cost and what features they would provide. It mentioned 
he would get a staff discount and told him he could opt out of these packs and that if he did 
so his account would not have a monthly fee. It described how he could do this either by 
visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr S in January 2017. This letter told Mr S that Barclays 
had changed his account and had started to charge him for the two packs. It set out the price 
and mentioned again that he would get a staff discount. The letter also told him that both 
packs were optional, and he could remove them from his account at any time. 
 
Taking these two letters together, I think that Barclays told Mr S what it was planning to do 
and gave him reasonable choices. I think it treated him fairly when it switched him to a fee-
free account and added the Travel Pack and the Tech Pack. 
Mr S has also mentioned that Barclays has marked his account as belonging to a member of 
its staff and this has affected his credit rating and stopped him receiving a loan or a 
mortgage. Hes pointed out that he worked through an agency and was never employed 
directly by Barclays. 
I do not know a great deal about the employment relationship between Mr S and Barclays, or 
how long it lasted. Mr S has not given us many details of how he thinks his employment 
relationship may have affected any application he made for a loan or mortgage. So, I have 
not considered this point within this decision. Mr S is free to raise it with Barclays if he so 
wishes. If he does, and is not satisfied with Barclays response, then he may be able to bring 
a new complaint about it to us. But I cant give him any advice about this. Nor can I tell if any 
complaint he does bring to us will fall inside or outside the rules and time limits that 
determine which complaints we can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman