DRN-3325289
The complaint
Mr A complains about the redress offered by Link Market Services Trustees Limited, trading
as Link Asset Services referred to as the business, for failing to pay the proceeds, from the
sale of his shares, in a timely manner.
Mr A says that he had planned to use the money towards a business venture abroad, but as
a result of the delays he was unable to do so. Mr A also says that he had to take several
trips abroad, lost out on a land purchase (valued at $12,000) and incurred an additional cost
of £300.
To resolve this complaint, Mr A would like a refund of his airfare plus £300 totalling
£2,173.08, along with compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr A worked for the company for 15 years that sold him company shares after his
employment ended.
On 14 May 2019, Mr A sold 2,256 Stagecoach Group Plc shares, via the business online
share dealing service. According to the business, this was at a share price of £1.3572 per
share.
The settlement didnt complete until 7 February 2020, and Mr A received £3,010, paid
directly into his bank account the next day.
Mr A says that since his instructions, in total he made three business trips abroad on the
following dates:
21 May 2019 to 23 July 2019.
18 September 2019 to 17 December 2019.
26 February 2020 to 26 October 2020.
He says he did so because the business venture for which he needed the money, couldnt
go ahead without the funds, therefore the trips were necessary.
The business says that following the sale of Mr As shares, it emailed him on three
occasions  on 21 May 2019, 29 May 2019 and 5 June 2019  asking for the CREST
transfer form and share certificates, so that it could proceed. In other words, it couldnt
proceed without the relevant documents.
On 9 June 2019, Mr A replied to say that he was out of the UK but would return on 24 July
2019. He also confirmed that the documents had been sent via signed for delivery service. I
note the business in response asked for the tracking reference number.
On 30 July 2019, Mr A called the business helpline and provided the tracking reference
number that had been previously requested. It seems this information was referred to the
business settlements team to investigate and get back to Mr A, but this never happened.
Mr A called the business again on 10 September 2019 and arranged for someone to call him
back. The business says that someone called back, but Mr A wasnt available.
Subsequently, various emails were sent by Mr A chasing his money, until February 2020
when he eventually complained to the business, and the money was then paid into his
account on 8 February 2020.
Mr A says that he received a letter from the business dated 3 March 2020 in which it said
that it received his instructions on 14 May 2019, and the trade was due to settle 16 May
2019. The business also said that having investigated the matter, it found that it had the
required documentation to settle the trade on 17 May 2019. He said he cant understand why
then it took the business until February 2020 to do so.
I understand the business upheld the complaint. In summary, it said that an item with Mr As
tracking reference number had been received but in error hadnt been passed on to the
settlements team, so it couldnt proceed with paying him the money.
Although it has no record of what was contained within the delivered item, its willing to
assume that it was the documents requested, namely the CREST transfer form and the
share certificates. On that basis, it actioned his request for the money on 7 February 2020
and paid the money into his account the next day.
The business also initially offered Mr A a total of £250 compensation  including £175.56 for
the 266-day lost interest  in light of the time taken to settle the trade. It doesnt accept that
its responsible for Mr As decision to travel abroad or any costs he may have incurred.
Unhappy with the outcome Mr A referred the complaint to our service. The business in the
meantime offered an additional £100 compensation bringing the total to £350.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In
summary, he said:
The business hasnt provided the best service it could during the sale of the shares, 
but he cant reasonably say that the delay in settling the trade was the only reason 
Mr A incurred business costs. In other words, he cant say that the business caused 
the loss that Mr A is claiming for.
Hes not seen any evidence that the foreign trips were due to the business inaction. 
He cant say the trips werent already planned, therefore the costs were something 
that Mr A was always going to incur.
The first trip was undertaken before the trade was settled. The second and third trip 
was undertaken whilst Mr A was aware that the instructions hadnt been completed. 
So, he cant say that the £300 and airfare Mr A says he incurred was due to the trade 
not settling sooner.
Nevertheless, the delay has caused Mr A some distress and inconvenience. So, in 
the circumstances, £350 compensation  including £175.56 interest payment  is 
broadly fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decision. In
summary, he made the following key points:
The shares he sold in May 2019, had been held by him for over a decade, which 
would reasonably demonstrate that they werent meant for luxurious use.
He shouldnt have to announce/disclose to the business, his reasons for selling his 
shares, as he had no contractual obligation to do so.He shouldnt have to wait over seven months for the sale of his shares. The business 
ignored his numerous calls and emails to try and resolve the matter sooner.
He was told, by the company with whom he held the shares, how he could liquidate 
his shares and how long the process would generally take. He called the business to 
confirm the position.
He had no doubt in his mind that hed receive his money on time and that hed be 
able to do whatever he wanted to do.
In an email received on 22 May 2019, the business confirmed that the cheque for the 
proceeds had already been issued, and that if he was happy for it to be cancelled 
and replaced with a bank transfer, he could do so, at a cost of £25 which he declined.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his
mind. In summary, he said:
The email dated 22 May 2019, made clear that a cheque could be cancelled, and a 
bank transfer arranged.
In the email dated 25 May 2019, Mr A informed the business that he didnt wish to 
pay the fee and that the business should send him the cheque. Whilst this would 
suggest that the business had received the information it needed to settle the trade, 
he still cant say that the cost of the trips abroad was incurred as a result of the late 
settlement.
The dates would suggest that Mr A had already departed  on 21 May 2019  before 
hed received the settlement. And as the cheque was to be sent to his UK address, 
where he was unlikely to have received it until his return.
If Mr A wanted to receive the funds whilst abroad, he couldve asked for the money to 
be sent direct to his account.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view. He said that he was married and had adult
children who couldve received and deposited the cheque on his behalf. He maintains the
business acted negligently. He said the business asked him for the documents that he sent
but then tried to dupe him by claiming that the documents hadnt been received. He still cant
understand why it took seven months to pay the settlement.
As no agreement had been reached the matter was passed to me for review.
In January 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
part of my final decision. I said:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. For the record, I dont think the 
business behaved reasonably in dealing with Mr As request to sell his shares. However, on 
balance I dont think the business is responsible for paying Mr A his airfare and costs.
Because the business has already upheld the complaint and offered redress, and
subsequently increased the compensation, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and
whether (or not) its offer is fair and reasonable. But having done so, in the circumstances,
and on balance, Im not persuaded that it is.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it
should pay Mr A £175.56 for the 266-day lost interest, plus £350 compensation for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr As strength of feeling about this matter.Mr As provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr A, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its
for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
I note on 14 May 2019 the business couldnt initially proceed with paying Mr A the sale
proceeds, because it didnt have his CREST transfer form and share certificates, or it wasnt
aware that it did.
I note the business says that it emailed Mr A on several occasions  on 21 May 2019, 29
May 2019 and 5 June 2019  asking for the relevant documents, coinciding with his first trip
abroad. On balance, I agree with the investigator, that Mr A embarked on this trip, of his own
volition, without any encouragement or advice from the business.
Im mindful of the email Mr A says he received from the business dated 22 May 2019, asking
whether he wanted his payment via cheque or bank transfer  giving him the impression that
his money was available and ready to be transferred. Nevertheless, Im mindful that he 
already left for his trip not knowing whether (or not) his funds were available.
I note on 9 June 2019, Mr A responded to the emails to say that he was abroad and that the
documents had been sent via signed for delivery service. In my opinion, Mr A, certainly by
this stage, knew that his request hadnt settled. I think its also safe to say that the business
didnt know that Mr A had gone abroad or why.
I note from the final response letter dated 3 March 2020, the business said that having
investigated the matter, it found that it had the documentation to settle the trade on 17 May
2019. So, its likely that Mr A had already provided the necessary documentation needed to
proceed by this point.
Instead, the business  in response to Mr As email dated 9 June 2019, and unaware of the
whereabouts of the documents  messaged him back asking for the tracking reference 
number  which Mr A duly provided on 30 July 2019.
By this stage Im satisfied that Mr A had already done everything he reasonably could do to
ensure that the sale proceeds were paid to him. On balance, I dont think Mr A couldve
reasonably done anymore, having already sent original CREST transfer form and share
certificates.
I note the business says that it forwarded the information to its settlements team with a view
to it getting back to Mr A, but it didnt. In my opinion, not only does this demonstrate further
poor service but another reason why the issue wasnt detected and rectified sooner. In other
words, the business still didnt know where Mr As documents were, or indeed what it had
done to them.
Had the business done what it had undertaken to do  and examined its post and got back
to Mr A  it had another opportunity to make right the situation by the end of July
2019/August 2019 but failed to do so.
I note on 10 September 2019, Mr A arranged for someone to call him back. The businesssays that someone called back but Mr A wasnt available  whether (or not) this was correct
the damage had been done. I note that subsequently, various emails were sent by Mr A
chasing his money, but to no avail. It wasnt until he raised a complaint in February 2020,
that matters were investigated by the business, and Mr As money was paid to his account 
on 8 February 2020.
I note the business says that in the end it just assumed that Mr A had provided the
necessary documents, even though it didnt have sight of them. In the circumstances, and on
balance, I think the business couldve made this concession a lot sooner. I dont think it was
necessary for Mr A to make an official complaint before things were reasonably looked into
and dealt with.
Its for the reasons set out above, I think the business should pay Mr A £350 compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to the £175.56 interest payment for
the 266-day lost interest, which I assume is for the period between 17 May 2019 and 7
February 2020.
In terms of the cost of the other flights, Im mindful that Mr A embarked on the second trip on
18 September 2019  for a period of three months roughly  knowing that his instructions
hadnt been actioned, despite him sending the documents via signed for deliver. I note there
was no guarantee from the business  which I think was still unaware of his reasons for
going abroad again  that matters would be resolved before or during his second trip and his
funds would be available.
I note the third trip abroad, in February 2020  for a period of eight months  coincides with
Mr A making a complaint to the business, after which he was paid the money on 8 February
2020, so by then Mr A was free to do what he wished with his money.
Whilst I appreciate Mr As point about his lack of obligations to tell the business anything
about his plans, there was nothing to suggest that the business was aware that he was
going abroad or why, or indeed why he might need the money sooner rather than later. I
appreciate its not an excuse for the business for not actioning Mr As instructions in a timely
manner.
Had the business been aware, and had it advised/encouraged Mr A to go abroad, on the
premise that his money would be available imminently, the circumstances would be different.
But in this instance, Mr A chose to go abroad, of his own volition without any consultation or
acquiescence from the business.
Despite what Mr A says, on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to safely
say that the business is responsible for paying Mr A the £300 and the airfare for the three
trips he made abroad, over the two calendar years, between two and eight months each
time.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr A is free to do what he wants with his money, I cant safely say
that the business is responsible for him not being able to proceed with his business interests.
I appreciate Mr A will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
only going to ask the business to award redress as set out below.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr A what he wants.I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. Neither party responded to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new submissions, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, no new points have been made that persuade me to change my decision. In 
this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been 
considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
I still dont think the business behaved reasonably in dealing with Mr As request to sell his 
shares. However, on balance I dont think the business is responsible for paying Mr A his 
airfare and costs.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it
should pay Mr A £175.56 for the 266-day lost interest, plus £350 compensation for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Link Market Services Trustees Limited should pay Mr A £525.56, comprised of £175.56 for 
the lost interest, plus £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay, less any payment already made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
Link Market Services Trustees Limited should pay Mr A redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman