DRN-3093755
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited is refusing to pay 
her appointed representatives legal fees in full. She says by doing this, it is restricting her 
freedom of choice.
What happened
Mrs R first contacted DAS in June 2020 when shed been made redundant by her employer. 
As the appeals process hadnt completed, DAS asked Mrs R to get back in touch once it 
had.
This completed in September 2020 and Mrs R contacted DAS for assistance. Her claim was 
submitted to one of DASs panel firms S1 shortly after. S1 didnt think the claim met the test 
for prospects of success. 
Because Mrs R didnt agree she got a second opinion. The second firm of solicitors S2 
looked into things and believe that the chance of success met DASs criteria. 
In November 2020 DAS accepted the second opinion. It also agreed to her appointing her 
own representatives and Mrs R decided to remain with S2. 
There was a delay in confirming cover, but DAS backdated the cover to early December 
2020 when the form had originally been submitted.
S2 also informed DAS that they wouldnt accept the hourly rate of £100 plus VAT and 
requested it be increased to £200 plus VAT. Additional requests for information were made 
between December 2020 and January 2021 without response.
In January 2021, DAS informed S2 it was unable to increase the hourly rate offered as per 
the terms and conditions of the cover.
A complaint was raised in February 2021 and DAS provided its response later that month. Its 
position in relation to the hourly rate remained unchanged, but it offered £200 compensation 
for the delays in corresponding with Mrs R and S2.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it was made clear 
in the terms what the payment limits are.
She also noted that in its final response letter, DAS set out the different options available to 
Mrs R. These being;
Entering a private top up retainer with S2;
Nominating an alternative firm of solicitors who would agree with DASs terms; or
Passing the claim to an alternative preferred firm.
It also confirmed that the last option doesnt have to be with S1, and it has several 
alternative providers for Mrs R to choose from.
The investigator thought as there were several options available DAS hadnt restricted her 
freedom of choice and that the options it had suggested were reasonable.
She noted there were several delays in DAS confirming cover and in responding to either S2 
or Mrs R. But she thought the compensation offered by DAS was fair.
Mrs R disagreed with the view. She says her case is extremely complex and therefore 
requires legal attention from a solicitor who has substantial experience; a grade A lawyer 
from the start. She says that when she researched other law firms online, she found three 
different employment law firms and they all had only the option of a paralegal for £100 per 
hour. They also state that anything more than a straightforward unfair dismissal case is 
considered complex. 
She says the options offered by DAS are restrictive and continue to limit her freedom of 
choice. She says that she lost all trust and confidence with DAS when it failed to correctly 
assess her claim and initially denied placing her on cover. She refers to case law and says 
that her freedom of choice cant be restricted to the point that it becomes meaningless 
because she cannot get a solicitor with the correct level of experience, or indeed any 
solicitor that is not on their panel, for £100 per hour. She says there are over 11,000 
regulated law firms so the handful that DAS has is not freedom of choice. She says having 
researched fees with various law firms she couldnt find anyone with the relevant experience 
that charged £100 per hour plus VAT. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As with virtually all legal expenses insurance, the policy terms say a claim must have 
prospects of success, which means it must be more likely than not that the policyholder will 
win their case. I would expect an insurer to get legal advice when deciding whether a claim 
has reasonable prospects. And its reasonable for the insurer to rely on that advice, unless 
its obviously wrong. 
Mrs Rs concerns with DAS began after S1 reviewed her claim and said it did not meet the 
prospects of success test. Mrs R says there were several errors in the assessment. And she 
therefore obtained a different assessment from S2. I appreciate this must have been 
upsetting and stressful for Mrs R, but having looked at the advice S1 gave I think DAS was 
initially entitled to rely on it. I say this because I think to someone who wasnt an expert in 
employment law or intimately involved in the case the advice from S1 appears logical and 
well-reasoned. 
Once DAS had something new to consider  from S2  it accepted Mrs Rs claim. I think this 
was a fair response. I appreciate Mrs R would like her costs for getting the second opinion 
but  as I said  I dont think DAS was wrong to rely on the advice from S1 initially, so I wont 
be making an order for it to pay for the cost of the second opinion.
I understand that after this initial experience with both S1 and S2 why Mrs R might have 
preferred for her case to be handled by S2. 
The policy terms say: If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not 
a preferred law firm, we will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the same 
terms as a preferred law firm. However, if they refuse to act on this basis, the most we will 
pay is the amount we would have paid if they had agreed to the DAS Standard Terms of Appointment. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as the appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour. The amount may vary from time to time.
Mrs R has said this term is hidden in the policy. I dont agree. The legal expenses insurance 
cover is only a few pages long and it is fairly easy to find this term within those pages. 
Insurers must provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on the cover, such as an hourly rate lower than the amount the policyholder 
might pay their own solicitors, the insurer needs to make this clear - policyholders should 
know at the outset what cover they are getting. I think the policy terms are clear. They tell 
the policyholder, when they take out the policy, what the usual rate is. As the insurer that will 
be paying the legal costs under the policy, I think its reasonable for DAS to have a say in the 
amount being charged by the policyholders solicitor. 
Mrs R has said that her case is complex. She says that she has investigated the rates 
charged for cases and that only a paralegal would work for £100 per hour. I appreciate that 
this might be what Mrs R thinks. But DAS is an experienced procurer of legal services and 
can buy those services in bulk. It is therefore able to negotiate rates that she might not be 
able to negotiate herself. It has given me the names of law firms who would have been able 
to assist her at the rate of £100 and the name of a solicitor at S1. I am therefore satisfied 
that had Mrs R persisted with using a panel solicitor she could have obtained legal advice at 
the rate of £100 per hour.
Mrs R says that there are 11,000 law firms so the handful of panel firms are not freedom of 
choice. In this context freedom of choice is not limitless. The relevant law does allow a 
policyholder to choose their own solicitors, once they are ready to start proceedings. But the 
courts have said an insurer can limit that choice, so long as its not restricted so much as to 
be meaningless. I appreciate that Mrs R preferred to use her own solicitor, but DAS has a 
large panel of firms and has confirmed it was able to offer a choice of different firms with the 
ability to deal with this type of case. I think thats reasonable, and I dont agree that it has 
limited her choice so much as to make it meaningless. Mrs Rs solicitors havent shown that 
her case is so complex or unusual that only a non-panel firm could deal with it. 
I think it was a fair response to Mrs Rs wish to use S2 to agree to offer to allow her to top 
up the fee and thereby allow her to use S2 whilst ensuring its own contribution to the fees 
remained at £100 per hour.
I agree that there were several incidences where the quality and speed of DASs 
communications with Mrs R and S2 werent good enough in December 2020. I appreciate 
this was stressful and upsetting for Mrs R at what was already a stressful and upsetting time. 
But I think the £200 DAS has offered is fair compensation and I wont be asking it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision is that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay £200 to 
Mrs R as it has offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman