DRN-1896351
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) has rejected his claim.
What happened
Mr K had an income protection policy with Vitality. In 2018, he was diagnosed with Multiple 
Sclerosis (MS). 
Mr K started a new role in December 2018 but resigned in February 2019. He then made a 
claim on the policy which had a deferred period of three months.
Vitality declined the claim as it didnt think Mr Ks condition met the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr K referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had done anything wrong 
but Mr K disagreed. In summary, he said:
He was paying a lot of money to protect himself and his family but Vitality had done 
everything to get out of its financial obligation.
He had tried to fight through his condition and work, even though he was signed off 
by his GP  which seems to have gone against him.
Mr Ks GP had written a letter confirming he was unable to carry out his role.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Its important to note before I begin that its not my role to diagnose Mr Ks medical condition. 
I need to consider all available medical evidence and decide whether or not Vitality has dealt 
with the claim fairly against the background of the terms and conditions.   
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  
The policy terms and conditions say:
We will pay if you become ill, injured, or disabled, and your incapacity meets one of the 
following definitions:
If you become unemployed or take a career break and claim under income protection cover 
within a month of leaving work, we will assess your claim against your previous own 
occupation. If you claim more than one month after leaving work, we will assess you as a 
houseperson. We may also change the deferred period that applies to your income 
protection cover.
Mr K hadnt performed his new role in full in the run up to his absence and was unemployed 
before that which meant he would be assessed using the houseperson criteria. Through 
medical evidence, Mr K would need to demonstrate that he was unable to perform three of 
the following six daily activities:
Washing
Getting dressed and undressed
Feeding yourself
Maintaining personal hygiene
Getting between rooms
Getting in and out of bed
The evidence didnt demonstrate that Mr K was unable to perform three of the above tasks. 
But Vitality exercised its discretion and assessed Mr Ks claim in line with the standard 
definition which says:
A standard definition means that illness or injury makes you unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of your own occupation. These are the duties that are normally 
needed to do your own occupation and that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you 
or your employer.
Vitality assessed the claim based on Mr Ks previous role as an Aftercare Sales Manager. 
But said the medical evidence didnt show that Mr K was unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his role.
Vitality reviewed Mr Ks medical history and a letter from his GP dated April 2019. This said 
Mr K had been diagnosed with MS in April 2018. He had been taking Citalopram to help with 
anxiety and stress and whilst he hadnt had a full relapse, he did have multiple flares which 
caused extreme chronic fatigue, feeling weak, reduced mobility and becoming clumsy. This 
meant Mr K hadnt been able to work as a motor service sales manager and in light of the 
multiple flare ups and the chronic nature of MS, it was unlikely Mr K would be able to return 
to this role.
Mr Ks GP wrote a further letter in June 2019 which said, in summary:
Mr K struggled with persistent and relapsing symptoms which had a significant 
impact on his ability to continue his role as a service manager.
He has ongoing fatigue which presents as acute episodes of brain fog which can 
cause cognitive dysfunction and impact on his role working with the public, and in 
managing finances.
He has acute rapid onset symptoms of back pain, and leg and arm spasms as well 
as muscle weakness. This can make him weak and unstable with reduced mobility. 
These symptoms pose a significant risk in the workplace, particularly in the 
workshops with car engines, ramps and other potentially dangerous engineering 
material.
Mr K struggles with fatigue  he is at risk of relapsing and therefore his role working 
50-60 hours was unsustainable.
 
Vitality arranged for Mr K to be examined by a Consultant Neurologist in June 2019. He 
completed his report and said, in summary:Mr K had chronic fatigue which was his main symptom, by far.
He has brain fog and memory loss and is clumsy and walks into things.
Mr K says he generally cant function and doesnt have the energy to look after his 
younger child  he is trying to keep active and would like to get back to work.
On examination, there was no obvious cognitive impairment.
His psychological state with anxiety and a lowness of mood is impacting on his 
performance and clinically he should be referred for a psychiatric opinion and engage 
with a clinical psychologist for talking therapies.
The specific factors which continue to prevent a return to work include  the 
diagnosis itself, the profound fatigue and his anxiety and depression about the 
disorder combined with the balance disturbance.
Mr K could make a return to work in his own occupation.
Vitality reviewed the additional medical evidence and Mr Ks appeal and maintained its 
decline. It confirmed a mental health exclusion applied to the policy which included:
Any disease, disability, disorder, injury, any operation, or treatment, whether directly or 
indirectly caused by anxiety state, depression or any mental or functional disorder. 
And so Vitality would exclude any symptoms that were linked or related to any mental health 
issues. It said Mr Ks symptoms of anxiety and low mood would impact performance. It had 
considered the fatigue described and whether it was consistent with activities such as 
running 20km over the weekend. In addition, Mr K had started a new role in July 2019 and 
the recruitment process would have needed to have been followed weeks before. Finally, 
Vitality said it wasnt dismissing Mr Ks condition out of hand and recognised that Mr K was 
affected by the diagnosis and symptoms. Although it didnt accept the claim, it made an ex-
gratia payment of £2,525 outside of the policy provisions.
As Vitality explained why Mr K doesnt meet the definition of incapacity, I dont think Vitality 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Im satisfied that it gathered appropriate medical 
evidence and arranged for an independent examination to understand the effects of Mr Ks 
symptoms. As Mr K didnt meet the requirements defined under the houseperson definition, 
Vitality went outside of the terms to consider a claim using the standard definition. And 
based on the evidence available, Vitality found that Mr Ks anxiety was contributing to his 
absence from work and inability to work. It also didnt think the description of fatigue was 
consistent with his running activities. And so it declined the claim on the basis of the mental 
health exclusion and Mr Ks activities.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman