DRN-2063165
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was bought in 2002 in connection with a further advance Mrs K took out on her 
mortgage. It covered Mrs K if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mrs Ks needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs K the information she needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mrs K is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs K says she doesnt remember PPI being discussed, either with her original mortgage or 
the further advance she arranged in 2002. As the adjudicator has explained, there was no 
PPI sold with Mrs Ks original mortgage in 1987. The policy wasnt taken out until Mrs K 
arranged her further advance in 2002.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much paperwork from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im also mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But Halifax has supplied a copy of its electronic records from 2002. These include details of 
the questions it asked Mrs K so that it could provide a quote for the PPI, together with her 
answers.
So without anything else to support what Mrs K has told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make her aware of the PPI, or that she had a choice 
about buying it. 
Halifax accepts that it advised Mrs K to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mrs K was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mrs K says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to
sickness or accident, and that her husband or family wouldve helped if things went 
wrong.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ks employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mrs K could use her employer benefits to pay for 
other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to rely on her family. So I still 
think the policy wouldve been useful to her, despite her existing arrangements. 
- Mrs K wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- Halifax has supplied a copy of the PPI quote it produced for Mrs K. So I think she 
wouldve known how much she would be paying for the policy and found it 
acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely Mrs K would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs K wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mrs K would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
Mrs K has mentioned that when she was made redundant Halifax told her there wasnt 
anything in place to cover her mortgage repayments. If Mrs K considers Halifax gave her  
information that was wrong, she may want to think about raising this as a separate complaint 
with the bank. If shes unhappy with the banks response, she may be able to refer the 
matter to this service for further consideration.
But for the purpose of this complaint Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold, so I wont be 
upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman