DRN-2809139
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Tesco Underwriting Limited have handled his motor insurance 
claim. Mr H thinks Tesco have acted unfairly and shown poor customer service by not taking 
his car to a salvage yard closer to his home. He says this made it difficult for him to retrieve 
the alloy wheels which he wanted to keep. 
What happened
On 23 September 2020 Mr Hs car was unfortunately stolen after thieves broke into his home 
and took the keys to his car. The car was located by the police and towed to Mr Hs local 
garage by a breakdown service provider. Both Mr Hs garage and the breakdown service 
provider said the car would need to be written off.  
Mr H made a claim under his motor insurance policy and, early on when registering the 
claim, he told Tesco that he wished to keep the new alloys he had recently fitted on his car 
as well as retrieve his personal number plate. 
Before progressing the claim Tesco confirmed with their underwriters they were happy to 
proceed with the claim as Mr H hadnt informed them that he had upgraded the alloys on his 
car. The underwriters confirmed the claim could continue and I understand from Mr H he 
was not seeking the cost of the upgraded alloys through the claim. 
Several calls took place between Mr H and Tesco during the course of the claim, including 
before Mr Hs car was picked up from his garage on 1 October 2020 and taken to a salvage 
yard some 120 miles away from his home. 
After Tescos engineer completed their review of Mr Hs car, it was agreed Mr H could have 
the alloys back. Mr H was also made aware of the separate process he needed to follow to 
deal with his personal number plate. 
However, Mr H felt the car was now too far away for him to go and retrieve the alloys. As an 
alternative option, the salvage yard was able to source replacement alloys for the car and it 
was proposed that Mr Hs own alloys could be posted back to him for a small cost. However, 
the insurers notes record that Mr H later said he would cut his losses, not take back the 
alloys and that he just wanted to settle the claim. The claim was then paid out to Mr H. And 
around this time Mr H complained to Tesco about what had happened. 
Mr H cant believe Tesco wasnt able to store his car somewhere closer. Mr H feels that 
given his situation and being a long-standing customer of Tesco, they should pay him £500 
for his alloys as this would not mean much to Tesco, but would demonstrate good customer 
service. Mr H wasnt asking for the full cost of his alloys, but broadly the difference between 
the cost of his alloys and the replacement ones the salvage yard had sourced. 
Tesco were not able to agree this with Mr H, so the complaint was brought to our service 
and one of our investigators considered the matter.  
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs case as they didnt think Tesco had done anything 
wrong. They explained that where Tesco had taken the car was a matter for Tesco to decide 
and an offer had been made to get Mr Hs alloys back to him which he hadnt accepted. The 
investigator also said it was fair for Tesco to carry out the inspection where they wanted, and 
noted Mr H had been told the alloys and personal number plate could not be removed until 
the inspection had been completed and confirmed that it was ok to do so  therefore, 
carrying out an inspection at Mr Hs garage wouldnt have been something Tesco would do. 
Copies of relevant telephone recordings between Mr H and Tesco were sent to Mr H. 
Mr H strongly disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr H didnt accept it was fair or 
reasonable to take the car so far away, or that Tesco did not have a storage facility closer to 
his postcode. Mr H also didnt accept that Tesco could not have inspected the car at his 
garage. Mr H therefore felt Tesco were lying to him and that theyd ignored his requests. Mr 
H did not think Tesco had been helpful in the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering everything Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, 
for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained below why I dont think Tesco needs to do any 
more here. 
 
From the submissions I recognise Mr Hs frustrations with what has happened, particularly 
as he indicated to Tesco from the outset of the claim that he wished to keep his alloy wheels 
along with his personal number plate. It seems to me that Mr Hs concerns are mainly 
around why Tesco could not have been more pragmatic with his claim as I believe he 
wouldve viewed this as good customer service. 
Tesco, as the insurer, is required to consider the claim in line with the terms of their 
insurance contract with Mr H and they will have their own processes in place to determine 
claims that are made to them. Commercial decisions such as a businesss processes are not 
something I can interfere with, rather the role of this service is to look at whether Tesco has 
acted fairly when assessing the claim.  
There is no dispute that Mr H had made it clear he wished to get his alloy wheels back. But 
Tesco explained Mr H couldnt remove his alloy wheels until theyd inspected the car and 
said it was ok to do so  I dont think this was an unreasonable thing for them to say as they 
needed to complete their own assessment of the car as part of the claim, regardless of what 
Mr Hs garage and the breakdown recovery provider had said. And I think Tesco did make 
these things clear to Mr H. 
Mr H believes Tesco couldve been pragmatic and arranged an engineer to inspect the car at 
his local garage where it was towed to. But this wasnt something Tesco had to do, and it 
wasnt part of their processes. Holding a car at a garage incurs a cost and by using their own 
storage facilities Tesco did not have to pay storage costs. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Tesco to move the car somewhere they could hold it until their engineer 
would be available to review it. Mr H says they took the car too far away. I agree that 120 miles is a long distance from Mr 
Hs postcode, and given his personal circumstances this would not have been an easy 
journey for him to make. But Ive seen no obligation on Tesco that they should store the car 
somewhere near to Mr Hs home address. So where they took the car isnt something I can 
comment on. Its Tescos decision where the car is stored. 
Mr H has told us Tesco were unhelpful each time he tried to find out where the car was 
being taken so Ive listened to the available call recordings. 
While the earlier Tesco call handlers Mr H spoke to werent able to let him know where the 
car was going to be taken, Tesco did let Mr H know where it was going the day before it was 
picked up. Mr H expressed concern in the call that it was a long way for him to go and it 
would be expensive for him to arrange collecting the alloys. Tesco told Mr H the car needed 
to go to one of their depots due to the storage costs and that these are not always local. So I 
think Mr H was made aware before the car was picked up where it was going to go, he was 
also given the phone number for the salvage yard. And Ive noted that Tesco has explained 
their call handlers would not have known from the outset where the car would be taken, so 
this wasnt something they couldve shared with Mr H until it was confirmed. 
Tescos contact notes for early October 2020 show that once the car had been reviewed, it 
was confirmed to Mr H that he could take his alloys back. It seems Mr H considered 
collecting them himself, then considered Tesco sending them back to him through the post 
and then ultimately decided to cut his losses and leave the alloys. 
I understand Mr Hs points are principled and he feels that Tesco shouldve acted more 
flexibly with his claim to demonstrate good customer service. I can see how Mr H has 
reached his conclusions, but this doesnt mean that I think Tesco has handled the claim 
unfairly. 
While I recognise Mr H is without the alloys he bought and fitted to the car, I think it was fair 
for Tesco to allow the claim after finding out Mr H hadnt let them know hed modified it. I 
also think it was fair for Tescos engineer to review the car before agreeing whether Mr H 
could take back the alloys and that Tesco could choose where to store the car until that 
happened. Im also mindful Mr H was offered the option of having the alloys returned to him, 
and this was something he chose not to explore further in terms of cost or accept as a 
resolution. So its difficult for me to say Tesco have acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my findings, but our service is not here to fine or 
punish firms or to tell a firm to change their processes  that is the role of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Hs complaint is not upheld and I make 
no award against Tesco Underwriting Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman