DRN-3329155
The complaint
Ms F complains that Vanquis Bank Limited acted unfairly when it refused to allow her to 
operate her credit card account with it after she asked it to remove a freeze on the account. 
She also complains about charges applied to the account.
What happened
Ms F had a credit card account with Vanquis. She says that due to her personal 
circumstances shed asked Vanquis to freeze her account. Her circumstances changed 
and she contacted Vanquis in July 2020 and asked it to remove the freeze from the 
account so that she could use it again. Shed made four recent payments to the account 
and she told Vanquis she intended to continue to reduce the outstanding balance but 
wanted to be able to use the card if she wanted to.
She spoke to Vanquis by telephone on 3 July 2020. It told her there was a Repayment 
Option Plan on the account. It agreed to remove the freeze from the account. It told her 
that because of this the Repayment Option Plan would end and charges and interest 
would start to be applied to the account again. It told her she could start to use the card 
again and would be required to make the monthly payments. Ms F agreed to make 
manual payments to the card account.
A few days later Ms F says she tried to access her account using the Vanquis online 
banking App - but it was blocked. She spoke to Vanquis again. It told her the credit 
facility on her account had been removed in 2018. At that time the account had been 
passed to debt collection agents. It had been pulled back to Vanquis when the 
Repayment Option Plan had been put in place. But, because the credit facility on the 
card had been removed in 2018, it wasnt possible to allow her to start using her card 
again. Vanquis told her shed have to clear the outstanding balance.
Ms F complained to Vanquis about what had happened. It investigated her complaint. It 
said shed been sent a Notice of Default on 9 July 2018. She hadnt paid the amount set 
out on that Notice and as a result her account had been closed. It confirmed that the 
account was not with a debt collection agency. Vanquis acknowledged that Ms F 
shouldve been given this information when she contacted it on 3 July 2020. It 
apologised for this. But, it said it wasnt willing to wipe the balance off her account and 
wasnt willing to reactivate the card.
Vanquis agreed to credit her account with £50 for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused. It said she could contact its specialist team to discuss available options to 
repay the balance.
Ms F wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She said thered been a miscommunication during the 
telephone conversation on 3 July 2020 and the situation regarding the status of Ms Fs 
account couldve been better explained. Vanquis had credited Ms Fs account with £50 by 
way of compensation for the poor service shed received.
But, our investigator didnt think thered been any error when Vanquis had revoked the 
credit limit on Ms Fs account. She said the default notice had been clear and it wouldve 
been irresponsible for Vanquis to have left the credit facility in place given Ms Fs 
financial circumstances. She didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think Vanquis needed 
to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Ms F didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision (the first provisional decision) in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I can see that Ms F was entitled under the terms and conditions for her 
account to opt into the Repayment Option Plan (ROP). Under these 
terms and conditions if Ms F experienced difficult financial 
circumstances she could request to opt into the ROP. This would mean, 
whilst the ROP was in place, she wouldnt be able to use her card but 
she also wouldnt have to make any repayments or pay any interest or 
charges.
Ms F did request to opt into the ROP. The history of her account 
shows that she did this during the following periods:
 August 2015 to November 2015 (the first ROP);
February 2016 to January 2018 (the second ROP); 
and
September 2018 to July 2020 (the third ROP).
Ms F says that when she told Vanquis in July 2020 she wanted to opt 
out of the ROP she expected to be able to use her credit card again. 
Vanquis refused to do that. It relies on the fact that it says it terminated 
the agreement with Ms F in July 2018.
Ive thought about what both Ms F and Vanquis have said here and 
considered the following things, in particular:
The sequence of events in July 2018
Having looked at the history of Ms Fs account, I can see she first appears 
to have reported difficult financial circumstances to Vanquis in August 
2015 and the first ROP was put in place at that time. Apart from the gap 
between November 2015 and February 2016, the ROP remained in place 
until January 2018. It also appears that the reason why the ROP was in 
place during this period was for the same event. So, Vanquis had 
permitted the ROP to be in place for longer than 24 months. It hasnt 
explained why that was permitted. But, Ms F was able to avail of the 
benefits of the first and second ROP during that period since she didnt 
have to make any repayments or pay interest or charges.
Ive looked at the statements issued to Ms F during the period from 
February 2016 to January 2018. I can see that after April 2016 all of 
these statements (with the exception of October 2017 when the ROP was temporarily suspended) included the following Important 
Information:
As you have ROP activated on your account no payment is 
required this month. However, if you wish to reduce your 
Overlimit amount you can continue to make payments.
This Important Information doesnt appear on statements issued 
after 3 December 2017. The statements issued in December 2017 
and January 2018 state that the minimum payment required is £0. I 
can see that the statement for February 2018 does indicate that 
charges have started again. Ms F made a payment of £14 on 9 
January 2018.
So, I think Ms F was aware that the ROP had ended and she was 
required to make payments. She made a further payment of £40 on 2 
February 2018 and I can see she used her credit card to make purchases 
that month also. She made another payment of £10 on 2 May 2018. But 
the payments she made were insufficient to prevent the account being 
more than two months in arrears.
From the notes Vanquis has provided it appears that Ms F contacted it in 
June 2018 and told it about her personal circumstances. Those 
circumstances wouldve given rise to a new event for the purposes of 
the ROP. Vanquis asked her to provide it with certain documentation to 
support what shed told it but it appears she didnt do that until around 
August 2018.
After 2 May no further payments had been made to the account, and in 
the absence of the documentation Vanquis had requested in June, 
Vanquis sent Ms F a Notice of Sums in Arrears. Her account statement 
dated 2 July 2018 informed her that her account was suspended. 
Vanquis also issued her with a Notice of Default on 9 July 2018.
The Notice of Default is an important document. It made clear that 
Ms F had until 28 July 2018 to make a payment of £88.79 to bring the 
account up to date. It warned her that if she didnt do that then Vanquis 
could file a default about her account with credit reference agencies 
and would terminate the agreement with her.
Ms F didnt make the payment set out on the Notice of Default and, as 
mentioned above, she didnt provide the documentation about her 
personal circumstances until August 2018. By that stage the account 
had been passed to a debt collection agency.
Vanquis hasnt produced a copy of any correspondence it sent to Ms F to 
formally tell her that the account had been terminated. Ive also noted that 
in November 2020 Vanquis sent Ms F a further Notice of Default. So, its 
not clear why it wouldve done that if it had already terminated the 
agreement. In March 2021 it reported the default to credit reference 
agencies.
Having considered the sequence of events, Im not persuaded that 
Vanquis had terminated the agreement on 28 July 2018 after Ms F failed 
to make the payment requested in the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default had made it clear that that would happen. But, theres no 
evidence it sent her a termination letter before it passed her account to 
debt collection agents.
And, its confirmed that it didnt inform credit reference agencies at 
that time about the default.
What did Vanquis tell Ms F?
Ive also considered the information Vanquis provided to Ms F about her 
account. I can see that after the account was referred to the debt 
collection agency, Ms F did provide the documentation about her 
personal circumstances to Vanquis. It sent her an email on 12 
September 2018 and told her it would freeze her account for a period of 
six months after which it would review the account again. It said she 
didnt have to make any payments and no interest or charges would be 
applied to her account. The heading on the email states Repayment 
Option Plan Account Freeze Successful.
Subsequently Vanquis sent letters to Ms F. Ive looked at letters 
dated 15 February 2019 and 30 December 2019  both of which 
refer to Repayment Option Plan Renewal Declaration.
Ive also looked at the statements sent to Ms F after September 2018. 
Ive noted that none of these make reference to a ROP being in place on 
the account but no interest or charges were being added to the account 
and no repayments were required to be made.
The terms and conditions for the ROP state that when an account was 
opted into a ROP, Vanquis would freeze the account for as long as 
the difficult financial circumstances continued up to a maximum of 24 
months per event (or series of connected events). The terms also 
state that after the difficult financial circumstances ceased to apply or 
after 24 months (whichever is sooner) the cardholder would be able to 
use their card or account but interest, fees and charges would start to 
accrue again.
Having looked at all of the correspondence, Im not persuaded that 
Vanquis did make clear to Ms F that because her account had been 
terminated the usual terms and conditions associated with the ROP did 
not apply. So, I can understand why Ms F thought that she could 
reactivate the account when she contacted Vanquis in July 2020. Ive 
commented further about that below.
Was it fair and reasonable not to reactivate the credit card when Ms F 
asked Vanquis to do that?
At the date when Ms F asked Vanquis to reactivate the card, the 
account was at or very close to the credit limit. She hadnt made any 
payments to the account in the period since 2 May 2018. And, even 
though Ms F agreed to start to make payments to the account, those 
payments were relatively small.The terms and conditions for the account make clear that Vanquis can 
change the credit limit at any time. So, it wasnt obliged to continue the 
credit limit at the level it had previously been set at. And, it is the case that 
Vanquis is required to act responsibly when setting and agreeing credit 
limits.
Vanquis told Ms F it would reactivate the account. That was an error on 
its part. It subsequently acknowledged that error, agreed to repay the 
four payments of £10 Ms F had made to the account and paid her £50 
by way of an ex gratia payment for its error. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
But, having considered everything here Im not persuaded, on 
balance, it would be fair or reasonable to require Vanquis to 
reactivate the card.
Fees and interest applied to the account in the period after July 2020.
Ive looked at the fees and interest Vanquis has applied to this account 
in the period after July 2020 when Ms F asked it to reactivate her card.
I can see Vanquis has applied interest and fees. Its also applied a 
monthly charge for the ROP. Given what its told us, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for Vanquis to have applied charges for the ROP. If it 
had terminated the account in July 2018, as it says it did, Ms F 
wouldnt have been entitled to opt into a ROP after that date. Any 
freezing of her account would have been dealt with in line with 
Vanquiss obligations to treat her positively and sympathetically when 
she told it about her financial circumstances. So, Ive provisionally 
decided it should refund all ROP charges applied after July 2020.
Ive also thought about what wouldve happened if Vanquis had correctly 
informed Ms F that it had terminated her account in July 2018 and told her 
she couldnt reactivate her account. If it had told her that I dont think she 
wouldve asked for the freeze to be removed from her account in July 
2020 and fees and interest wouldnt have started to be added to her 
account at that time. So, I think Vanquis should refund all fees and 
interest added to the account after July 2020.
Vanquis has now filed a default with credit reference agencies. For the 
reasons set out above, I dont think that wouldve happened had Ms F 
known she couldnt reactivate her account. If shed known that I think the 
account wouldve remained frozen and the Notice of Default wouldnt 
have issued. So, my provisional view is that Vanquis should remove the 
default it filed with credit reference agencies.
Ms F will still owe the outstanding balance to Vanquis after any 
refunds have been applied and she will need to contact Vanquis to 
make arrangements for the repayment of that balance.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive also thought about the loss of expectation, trouble and inconvenience 
Ms F has experienced as a result of whats happened. Vanquis has already paid her £50 because it incorrectly told her it would reactivate her 
credit card. But, shes continued to be charged fees and interest and has 
been sent a further Notice of Default. Shes told us that because of her 
personal circumstances shes been extremely upset by the demands for 
payment and was concerned about being put into a state of hardship 
because she couldnt afford the amount stated in the Notice of Default.
As I mentioned above, I think Ms F should repay the balance 
outstanding. And, we would expect Vanquis to treat her positively and 
sympathetically given her circumstances.
Vanquis did refund the four payments of £10 shed paid. In its final 
response letter, it also told her she could contact it to discuss available 
options to agree a suitable repayment plan. And, as mentioned above, it 
paid her £50 by way of compensation for the incorrect information itd 
given her when she telephoned it in July 2020. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. Having considered everything here, Im currently not minded 
to require it to pay her any further compensation for distress and 
inconvenience because of whats happened.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is to uphold 
this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited. I intend to require it to:
Refund all interest and fees (including the Repayment Option 
Fees) applied to Ms Fs account after July 2020; and
Remove the default filed with credit reference agencies about Ms 
Fs account.
Ms F responded to my first provisional decision. She said she could afford to make 
repayments to clear the debt if all the charges were refunded  although she said this 
would cause hardship. She then sent copy statements. She said the treatment shed 
received from Vanquis had been disgraceful. She thought the interest rate had been 
extortionate. She also said that the balance on her account was made up mostly of 
charges. She thought the debt should be wiped.
Vanquis also responded to my provisional decision. It said it had nothing further to add 
but it pointed out that if the default was removed, Ms F was at risk of this reporting again 
in the future. It said it was important that Ms F got in touch with it to agree an affordable 
and sustainable payment arrangement to avoid the default reporting again.
We asked Ms F to comment on what Vanquis had said. We pointed out to her that after 
the balance on her account had been reworked in line with what was set out in the 
provisional decision, there would still be a balance outstanding. We told her that unless 
she was able to repay that balance in full or restart the contractual payments there was a 
risk that the account could default again and Vanquis could record another default which 
would remain on her credit file for six years.
Ms F said she wanted the default to be removed. She said she could make payments 
each month but couldnt afford to pay it off quickly due to her circumstances.
In light of the responses to my first provisional decision I issued a further provisional 
decision (the second provisional decision) in which I said:What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ive thought firstly about what Ms F told us concerning the charges and 
interest thatd been applied to her account. As I said in my previous 
provisional decision, I think all charges and interest after July 2020 should 
be refunded to the account. That will still leave a balance outstanding 
which Ms F will have to repay.
I have examined the statements for the account prior to July 2020 and I 
havent found evidence to support what Ms F says about unfair charging. 
Ive also noted there were a significant number of refunds of interest and 
charges made to the account during that period. There was also an ex 
gratia payment of £25 made on 31 January 2018.
I remain of the view that Vanquis should refund all charges (including the 
Repayment Option Fees) applied to the account after July 2020. But, that 
does mean there will still be a balance outstanding and Ms F should make 
arrangements to repay that balance. I dont think that Vanquis should be 
required to wipe the debt.
Ive then thought about the default thats been recorded. In my provisional 
decision I said that I thought Vanquis should remove this default. Ms F has 
been made aware of the consequences if she isnt able to agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Vanquis for repayment of the outstanding balance. 
Shes told us she wants the default removed from her credit file.
When thinking about how this case should be resolved, Im currently 
minded to change my provisional decision about how the default should 
be dealt with. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to put Ms F into a 
position where the default could report again. Shes told us that even with 
the payments shes proposing to make (which could take several years to 
repay the debt) shed be in financial hardship.
So, Ive looked again at the default recorded. I can see Vanquis recorded 
this in March 2021. It will remain on Ms Fs credit file for six years from that 
date. As I said in my provisional decision the last payment made by Ms F, 
after the second ROP ended was May 2018. A notice of default was issued 
in July 2018 and the account passed to a debt collection agency. Vanquis 
didnt terminate the account at that time and it hasnt been able to explain 
why. It says it thought it had done so  but hasnt provided evidence to 
support that.
So, having thought about everything again, although Im still persuaded for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that Ms F believed she 
could reactivate the ROP in September 2018 and Vanquis did reactivate 
the ROP at that time, Im currently minded to ask Vanquis to backdate the 
default to 28 July 2018. That was the payment date stated in the default 
notice issued at that time and no payments were received after May 2018. I 
think thats a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. It would 
also mean that the default wouldnt be reported again if Ms F is unable to 
agree a suitable and sustainable repayment plan with Vanquis.My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited. I intend to require it to:
Refund all interest and fees (including the Repayment Option 
Fees) applied to Ms Fs account after July 2020; and
Backdate the default filed with credit reference agencies 
about Ms Fs account to 28 July 2018.
Vanquis responded to my second provisional decision. It confirmed that it accepted the 
second provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Ms F also responded to my second provisional decision. She said that due to her personal 
circumstances, she could only afford to pay a small amount each month. She said that 
because of the default other credit agreements were more expensive than they would 
otherwise have been. She said she wanted the default removed.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms F has told us in response to both provisional decisions. 
She hasnt told us that she can clear the full outstanding balance with Vanquis. And it 
appears that the proposed repayments which she says she can afford to make would mean 
that the balance wouldnt be cleared for some time. Ms F has also told us previously that the 
repayments she is proposing to make would cause her hardship.  
As I said in my second provisional decision I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to put 
Ms F into a position where the default could report again. And, having considered everything 
Ms F has told us, I remain of that view. 
So, for the reasons set out above and in my first and second provisional decisions, Ive 
decided that Vanquis should refund all interest and fees (including the Repayment Option 
Fees) applied to Ms Fs account after July 2020. And for the reasons set out in my second 
provisional decision and above, Ive also decided that Vanquis should backdate the default 
filed with credit reference agencies about Ms Fs account to 28 July 2018.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited. I now 
require it to take the following actions:
Refund all interest and fees (including the Repayment Option 
Fees) applied to Ms Fs account after July 2020; and
Backdate the default filed with credit reference agencies 
about Ms Fs account to 28 July 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman