DRN-3763721
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, (Tesco Bank),  
opened a credit card account for her and later increased her credit limit. 
What happened
Miss C opened a credit card account with Tesco Bank in September 2017. Tesco Bank gave 
her a £3,200 credit limit to start with. It then increased the credit limit to £4,200 in          
March 2018 and again increased it to £6,200 on 28 August 2019.
Miss C said that Tesco Bank lent to her irresponsibly. She has existing health issues which 
have been worsened by the whole situation. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that he couldnt fairly say that Tesco Bank had made an error when it initially 
opened Miss Cs credit card, or when it provided her with credit limit increases. 
Miss C disagreed. She said her credit file showed she was using nearly all of her credit limit 
when her limit was increased, and she was making small payments. Additionally, she had a 
high level of other credit in relation to her income. Her credit file also showed how she 
managed her other accounts. Miss C believed if Tesco Bank had done more thorough 
checks, it would have seen she would struggle with the management of the credit card 
payments. Over the duration of having the credit card, she had taken out multiple money 
transfers which was a sign of unaffordability. She didnt miss payments as she was taking 
out further credit to cover the payments and pay the balance. Her credit file showed the link 
between the fluctuations of her credit card balance in relation to the payments made and 
increases in her other credit.
The investigator responded to say that Tesco Bank had shown that it conducted fair and 
appropriate checks when the account was first opened, and each time the credit limit was 
increased. Hed looked at Miss Cs cash transfers again. He couldnt agree that they could 
be considered a sign of unaffordability on their own and they would need to be considered in 
context. From looking at Miss Cs statements, the money transfers shed requested came 
under 0% promotional interest rates. And he couldnt see that her account was poorly 
managed after those transfers. 
Miss C responded to say that she was able to manage payments by taking out further credit 
to fund those payments over time. Miss C also provided her current account statements. She 
also said that she had another similar credit card complaint open with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service which had been upheld. 
The investigator responded to say that each complaint was investigated on its own individual 
merits, and the outcome of one complaint wouldnt influence the investigation of another.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C
and to Tesco Bank on 21 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Miss C had referred to another decision of this Service, but Id said that we 
assess each case on its own merits.
Id said that Tesco Bank would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we considered when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. So, I didnt consider it necessary to set all of this out in my decision. 
Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Tesco Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. At the 
time of account opening, this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss C could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, Miss Cs lending history and her income and 
expenditure. 
Account application
Tesco Bank told this Service that it carried out a credit check and obtained information from 
Miss C. Miss C said that her net monthly income was £1,335, she lived with her parents and 
worked full time. Tesco Banks file showed Miss Cs monthly rent was £401, her monthly 
credit commitments were £404, and it estimated her monthly living costs as £401. After 
allowing £79 for its monthly card repayment, Tesco Bank said that Miss C had a net 
disposable monthly income of £130. So, it had no concerns the additional borrowing was 
unaffordable. Furthermore, from its review of the information available at the credit reference 
agencies, it was satisfied Miss C was a low risk, having not identified any adverse 
information to indicate she had been, or could have been, a bad debtor.
Id noted from Tesco Banks credit checks that Miss C had nine credit accounts with a loans 
balance of £14,584 and a revolving credit balance of £1,590. I thought that Tesco Bank 
might have had concerns about the amount of Miss Cs outstanding credit. I thought it might 
have reasonably thought that Miss Cs monthly credit commitments would have been 
somewhat higher than £404. So, I didnt think it was reasonable for Tesco Bank to have 
relied on its estimated disposable income of £130 to assess whether Miss C would be able 
to sustainably repay the money shed borrowed within a reasonable period of time. And I 
thought it might have been reasonable and proportionate for Tesco Bank to gather some 
more information about Miss Cs actual credit commitments. 
I also noted that CONC 5.3.1G said that: 
(9) For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit the firm should set the credit 
limit based on the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) and taking into account the matters in CONC 5.2.3 G, and, in particular, the 
information it had on the customer's current disposable income taking into account any 
reasonably foreseeable future changes.
So in order to satisfy itself that Miss C would be able to repay the money shed borrowed 
sustainably and within a reasonable period of time, I thought Tesco Bank needed to 
understand that Miss C had the means to do so, in other words sufficient disposable income. As I hadnt seen evidence that Tesco Bank gathered information about Miss Cs actual 
regular living costs at the time of her application, I didnt think Tesco Bank could have had an 
accurate understanding of Miss Cs disposable income and I didnt think it made 
proportionate checks here.
However, concluding that Tesco Bank ought to have done more before lending to Miss C 
didnt automatically mean her complaint should succeed. So, Id considered what information 
a reasonable and proportionate check would likely have produced. 
Id looked at Miss Cs bank statements in July 2017 and August 2017 and Miss Cs own 
credit reports to see what better checks would have shown Tesco Bank. Im not suggesting 
Tesco Bank ought to have done this, but these gave me some understanding of Miss Cs 
living costs, credit commitments and how she was managing her money.
Id noted that Miss Cs credit reports showed that she already had four credit cards at the 
time of taking out Tesco Banks credit card. And in the 12 months before her application to 
Tesco Bank, Miss C had taken out a loan for £3,320 in September 2016, a car loan in 
October 2016 for nearly £12,000, another loan for £1,842 in January 2017 and another loan 
for £1,580 in August 2017. Shed also taken out a catalogue credit account with a £1,000 
limit in September 2017. I thought all this relatively recent credit might have caused       
Tesco Bank some concerns if it had made better checks.
I could see from Miss Cs bank statements that her net monthly income was less than shown 
in Tesco Banks application. She earned around £1,267 in July 2017 and around £1,114 in 
August 2017. I could also see that Miss Cs monthly credit commitments were significantly 
higher than noted by Tesco Bank. They were around £702 in July 2017 and £848 in     
August 2017. Miss Cs identifiable living costs were around £410 in July 2017 and around 
£320 in August 2017. I could also see that in  August 2017 she had received a loan for 
around £889. Over half of this amount was used to repay an existing loan two days after 
receipt. Miss C also received a total of £167 from a family member in July 2017 and a total of 
£260 from a friend in August 2017. So, Id thought if Tesco Bank had carried out what I 
considered to be proportionate checks, it ought reasonably to have realised that Miss C was 
over committed financially and that it was unlikely that Miss C wouldve been able to repay 
her credit card repayments sustainably. I thought there was a very real prospect that Miss C 
would need to borrow again in order to repay her new credit card and that would likely have 
an adverse effect on her financial situation. 
So, I thought that Tesco Bank made an unfair lending decision when it opened Miss Cs 
account. And as I found that Tesco Bank shouldnt have opened an account for Miss C, it 
logically followed that it shouldnt have gone on to offer her either of the credit limit 
increases. 
So for the reasons given above, but subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, I intended to say that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld and I set 
out a method of putting things right for Miss C which addressed Tesco Banks failings and 
Miss Cs loss.
Id noted that Miss C had asked in her complaint form for the remaining balance on the 
account to be written off. In her complaint form, she had told us about how the situation had 
affected her health and that Tesco Banks actions had made this worse. Id not seen 
anything to persuade me that the remaining balance should be written off. And I could see 
from the information provided by Miss C earlier this year that she was able to work. Id said 
that if Miss C would like me to consider the writing off of the balance, she should send me 
evidence in support of this request (including recent health reports) in her response to my 
provisional decision.Miss C responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with the decision. 
She hadnt sent this Service any evidence in support of her request for the balance to be 
written off.  
Tesco Bank disagreed with my provisional decision and responded to say, in summary, 
that:-
- It estimated Miss Cs housing costs as 30% of her income in its assessment. If Miss C 
wasnt paying these, her disposable income would have been over £500.
- It referred to my saying that Miss Cs monthly credit commitments were likely higher 
than £404. It had relied on information from the credit reference agency about her 
commitments. This said that her loan repayments were £47 and her credit commitments 
were £48.
- It hadnt gathered information on Miss Cs actual regular living costs. It had used 
industry standard estimations for these costs which it said were aligned with the industry 
in 2017.
- It said that verifying Miss Cs income wasnt necessary in the absence of negative risk 
indicators at the credit reference agency. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Tesco Banks response, I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it 
to have agreed the credit card for Miss C. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional 
decision and Ive also responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision 
below. 
As Ive said above at the time of the application CONC 5.3.1G suggested taking into account 
actual disposable income. So, I would have reasonably expected Tesco Bank to comply with 
CONC here.
In view of the comments made by Tesco Bank in response to my provisional decision, I 
asked the investigator to ask Tesco Bank for some more information. I wanted to see the 
actual credit report received by Tesco Bank to see whether there was information such as 
missed or late payments, overlimit accounts and more detailed loan information. Tesco Bank 
was unable to supply this. I also asked why Tesco Bank had used the amount of £404 for 
Miss Cs monthly credit commitments if the commitments on its credit checks were 
substantially less than this figure. Tesco Bank said that it calculated credit commitments by 
using 2.5% of Miss Cs total existing debt at the time. Tesco Bank also said that it used 30% 
of Miss Cs net monthly income to determine what her living and housing expenses were.  
As it appears that Tesco Bank didnt have an accurate picture of Miss Cs financial situation 
and that its credit assessment was largely based on estimated amounts, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Tesco Bank to have relied on its estimated disposable income of £130 to 
assess whether Miss C would be able to sustainably repay the money shed borrowed within 
a reasonable period of time. As Ive said above, I think if Tesco Bank had carried out 
proportionate checks, it ought reasonably to have realised that Miss C was over committed financially and that it was unlikely that she wouldve been able to repay her credit card 
repayments sustainably.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that I should depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and 
require Tesco Bank to take the following steps.
Putting things right  what Tesco Bank needs to do
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have opened Miss Cs account, I dont think its fair for it 
to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss C 
should pay back the amounts she borrowed. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
  Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
  If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss C along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement and Tesco Bank should remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Miss Cs credit file. 
 If after the rework there is still an outstanding balance,  Tesco Bank should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss C for the remaining amount. Once Miss C has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file.
  If Tesco Bank has sold the outstanding balance on the account to a third party debt 
purchaser, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments, or pay Miss C an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, to put things right as Ive set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what Tesco Bank needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman