DRN-3624252
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
On 25 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision and invited IFM and Mr H to comment on 
it. For ease of reference I've copied the relevant extracts from that provisional decision 
below.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1 , or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In August 2017 Mr H approached a firm of financial advisers (Firm F). It didnt have the 
relevant regulators permission to advise on DB transfers and referred Mr H to IFM.
IFM met with Mr H and gathered information about his entitlement under his current DB 
scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It completed a fact-find with 
him and an assessment of his risk appetite. Amongst other things, it noted that:
Mr H was aged 49, divorced with two children and living with his partner.
He was employed with a yearly salary of around £36,000, with a net monthly income 
of £2,000 and expenditure of £1,750.
He wished to retire at age 55.
He anticipated he would need an income of £1,250 a month in retirement.
He wanted to use the tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum from his pension to repay his 
mortgage which he estimated would have around £40,000 owing at retirement.
He was a member of his employers new money purchase pension scheme to which 
both he and his employer contributed 6% of his salary.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from
the original scheme.
He had a moderate attitude to risk.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from his BSPS fund was £413,453 which 
would pay him an estimated yearly pension at age 65 of £23,056.
The growth rate required (the critical yield) to match that income from investment in a 
personal pension was 6.4%.
On 10 September 2017 IFM sent Mr H its suitability report setting out its recommendations 
and the reasons for those. It recommended that Mr H transfer his BSPS benefits to a named 
personal pension. Amongst other things IFM:
Summarised Mr Hs objectives as wanting to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a 
personal pension to provide greater flexibility.
Said that if he were to retire at 55 his BSPS pension would be reduced by around 
30%. So it said that at todays value that would equate to a full pension of £16,888 
a year or TFC of £55,800 and a yearly pension of £8,350.
Remarked that early retirement was unlikely to be an option under the PPF.
It said the early retirement options from the BSPS2 weren't known but would 
undoubtedly be inferior to those from the BSPS.
Set out some of the advantages and disadvantages of a DB pension against a 
personal pension.
Said that as Mr H didnt intend to take an annuity on retirement then the results from 
its TVAS were largely academic. But it added that its analysis to date showed that 
investment returns of around 8% were required to match the benefits available from 
the BSPS. And that achieving those returns was probably an unrealistic 
expectation.
By assuming an investment return rate of 5% a year from a personal pension and 
taking income from it at 55, it could sustain him well into his old age.
Said Mr H placed a higher value on flexibility and control of his pension than a 
guaranteed income
Noted that Mr H was very uncomfortable about the DB schemes future prospects.
Said that Firm F would provide ongoing financial advice.
Would charge Mr H a fee of £5,000 for its advice and arranging the transfer.
The suitability report gave the following three reasons for Mr H to transfer out of the DB 
scheme:
He required flexibility and control to take an income which suited his circumstances 
as opposed to a guaranteed income.
He didnt want to take the risk of having restrictions in place if the scheme entered 
the PPF or moved to the BSPS2.
He was prepared to take more risk in return for greater flexibility.
Mr H signed an instruction to go ahead with the DB transfer on 17 September 2017. In 
December 2017 the BSPS administrators paid a revalued CETV of £426,935 into Mr Hs 
newly set up personal pension.
In 2021, after receiving a letter from the FCA telling him that he may have been misadvised, 
Mr H complained to IFM. IFM replied that it thought its advice was suitable for Mr H.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators upheld it. In short he said he 
didnt think that IFMs advice was suitable for Mr H. The investigator said that IFM should 
have advised Mr H to allow his DB benefits to go into the PPF. The investigator 
recommended that IFM compensate Mr H for his losses as well as paying him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.Mr H immediately replied. He said that he felt that he would have opted for the BSPS2 rather 
than the PPF. Our investigator said he felt that, given Mr Hs preference for early retirement 
then the PPF was more suitable for him.
After asking for more time to respond IFM said that it would accept our investigators 
decision. Around two months later Mr H contacted us. He said he hadn't heard from IFM. 
Our investigator referred the complaint for an ombudsmans decision. IFM then contacted 
us. It confirmed that it had previously instructed an actuarial firm which had calculated that 
Mr H had not suffered a loss because of the pension transfer. Mr H told us that he wasnt 
satisfied with the situation as he didnt agree that a comparison with the PPF was suitable for 
him as he believed he would have chosen to go to the BSPS2.
The complaint has since been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IFM accepted our investigators assessment of the complaint and carried out a loss 
assessment based on a comparison of Mr Hs benefits being transferred to the PPF. But, for 
reasons I go onto explain, I dont think that recommending a transfer to the PPF was in 
Mr Hs best interests. So, although it seems IFM has already acknowledged the flaws in its 
advice process, for clarity I've provided an analysis of the key reasons for my decision 
below.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as those given by the investigator.The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests and that IFM should have 
instead recommended that Mr H opt into the BSPS2. 
Distrust and uncertainty
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr H had serious concerns about the security of 
their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in March 2017. There 
was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for 
members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr H. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. And Mr H might well have been leaning towards transferring when he sought 
advice. But IFM was tasked with rationally addressing Mr Hs concerns and providing an 
appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And in order to recommend that 
Mr H should transfer out of his DB scheme IFM needed to be able to clearly demonstrate 
that doing so was in his best interests.
When Mr H approached IFM there was still the possibility that his pension could move to the 
PPF. And the BSPS2 had still not been confirmed. But, some months earlier, in May 2017, 
the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Under the announced 
plans, Mr Hs employer agreed to set up and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The Pensions Regulator approved the 
RAA on 11 August 2017.
Subsequently, on 28 August 2017  around two weeks before IFM produced its suitability 
report  the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, including Mr H, with an 
important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update said an expected payment 
into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Hs employer, as part of its agreement with The Pension 
Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer values, like Mr H, administrators would issue updated valuations in 
October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. The confirmation 
that Mr Hs employer had made the payment referred to was announced on 
11 September 2017. And on 27 September the scheme trustees provided an update to 
members to announce that, in October 2017, they would be sending out options packs to 
give members the information they would need in order to make the right choice for them.
IFM noted in its suitability report that it was expecting the BSPS2s full details to be 
announced shortly. But, despite the development with the BSPS2, IFM didnt provide any 
further advice or guidance in terms of what this might mean for Mr H. And in order to ensure 
he had all the information he needed in order to make an informed decision before 
transferring, I think it should have done that.
Further, even if Mr H remained concerned about the possibility, even if it was a slim one, of 
the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I think IFM should 
have addressed that concern. A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a 
reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension 
increases. But the 10% reduction didnt necessarily mean Mr H would be worse off, as for 
those taking early retirement the PPF could have been more beneficial to them. But, IFM didnt give Mr H all the information he needed in order to see if that was something that 
might be suitable for him.
Its notable that the TVAS said that if Mr Hs benefits were to transfer to the PPF then in 
order to match those the personal pension would need a critical yield of 3.2% if Mr H took a 
full pension at age 65. But it didnt provide any figures if Mr H chose to retire early. In fact the 
TVAS says Mr H had shown no indication he wished to retire before age 65. And, given 
Mr H had said that ideally hed like to retire at age 55, that plainly wasnt the case. The TVAS 
said that Mr H would be entitled to a pension of £20,166 from the PPF if he retired at 65. But 
it didnt say what Mr Hs TFC entitlement would be from the PPF at either 65 or if he decided 
to retire early. And given that the PPF was known to be more generous when calculating 
TFC figures for those retiring early, then thats something that IFM should have made him 
aware of. In fact IFMs suitability report says that early retirement is unlikely to be an option 
under the PPF. But that is simply wrong. So IFM didnt give Mr H a clear reference of what 
the PPF would have paid him if his benefits had moved into it.
Also its likely that Mr H could have met his needs in retirement and retained guaranteed 
benefits if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move his pension to the PPF. As 
I've said above the TVAS shows that Mr H would have a yearly pension, at age 65, of 
£20,166 a year. That sum is comfortably above the £15,000 a year (£1,250 a month) Mr H 
thought hed need in retirement. And that income figure would be bolstered when Mr H 
began receiving his state pension at age 67. So, I'm not persuaded that the uncertainty that 
Mr H experienced when he entered into the advice process was sufficient reason to 
recommend that he should transfer his safeguarded benefits from a DB scheme, even with 
the possibility of that going into the PPF. Thats because, to do so would expose those funds 
to the volatilities and risks of the investment markets. So, I dont think those concerns should 
have led to IFM recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
IFMs advice process
IFM carried out a TVAS (as the regulator required) showing how much Mr Hs pension fund 
would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to provide the same benefits as 
his DB scheme at age 65. But, this was based on his existing scheme benefits and Mr H 
didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or 
move with the scheme to the PPF.
As I've said above, more information about the BSPS2 became available while IFM was 
going through the advice process. It wouldnt have been aware of the precise details from 
the BSPS2 at the time it drafted its suitability report. But, it should have known that the 
BSPS2 would very likely go ahead. And, in order to give Mr H enough information to make a 
fully informed decision about what was in his best interests, I think IFM should have told 
Mr H to defer making a decision on the transfer until further details of the BSPS2 were 
known. And that would have given IFM the opportunity to provide an analysis of the 
comparison between the BSPS2 benefits, the PPF and the named personal pension. But 
IFM didnt provide any advice or guidance about what the likely benefits from the BSPS2 
were. In fact IFM recognised in its suitability report that a comparison of benefits against the 
current BSPS scheme didnt present a true picture and arguably didnt add value to the 
process. But it went ahead with its advice process whilst recognising that it was flawed.
The BSPS2 was thought to be of greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF for the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65. So, in reality, the growth rates required to match the 
BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF and those 
for the BSPS. And IFM should have updated its advice to include, in one place, a 
comparison of the relevant benefits of moving to the PPF, moving to the BSPS2 or transferring to the named personal pension. Had it done so Mr H would have been in a 
better place to make an informed decision.
I understand that all of the information IFM needed about the BSPS2 wasnt available when 
it drafted its suitability report and wouldnt become available until the following month. I also 
appreciate that Mr Hs CETV was only guaranteed initially for three months and as such was 
due to lapse on 21 October 2017, but the BSPS administrators had said they would issue 
revalued CETVs guaranteed until December. So IFM had no urgent need to issue its 
suitability report when it did.
Further, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no 
going back, so the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. So, regardless that 
IFM might have felt that its advice process was at an end, it should have ensured that Mr H 
had sight of all the information he needed in order to make an informed choice before 
making that decision. And that included the information about the likely benefits of the 
BSPS2, even though this information didnt become available until after it had drafted its 
suitability report. But IFM didnt do that.
Also, there are other flaws in IFMs evidence gathering and advice process. For example, 
Mr H and his employer, together, were contributing to Mr Hs money purchase pension 
scheme a sum of around £4,320 a year. So, without allowing for any investment growth or 
increased contributions to reflect increasing wages, that pension could have a fund of 
around £26,000 by the time Mr H turned 55 or £65,000 by the time he reached 65. But IFM 
didnt provide any analysis of whether those funds could have supported Mr H in early 
retirement while taking his guaranteed income from the DB scheme. So I dont think IFM 
presented all the information Mr H needed in order to make a fully informed decision.
Also theres very little analysis within IFMs suitability report which shows how Mr H could 
meet his income needs. IFM did include a graph within its report showing Mr H taking 
income from a personal pension by draw down. But that model shows Mr H taking the same 
sum as he could take from his DB scheme. So that is with him taking an income of around 
£8,000 a year  using prices at the time of the advice  and not the £15,000 a year Mr H 
thought he would need to live off. So it wasn't helpful in ensuring Mr H had a full 
understanding of IFMs proposals.
There is a cashflow model elsewhere on the file, which shows that Mr H could take an 
income of £15,000 a year from age 55, which he would need to reduce once his state 
pension became payable at age 67. And while its possible that IFM discussed this model 
with him when it met with him, theres no reference to it whatsoever within IFMs suitability 
report. So its not clear whether Mr H had ever had sight of it. And given that allowing Mr H 
to retire early was the key reason for its recommendation, I think this is something it needed 
to make sure Mr H had sight of and should have been included within its suitability report.
Financial viability
The TVAS shows the critical yield at age 65 for Mr H taking a full pension from the BSPS 
was 6.4%. Although IFM said in its suitability report that Mr H would require a yearly 
nvestment return of 8% in order to match the DB scheme benefits. In its response to Mr Hs 
complaint IFM said it used a higher growth rate required in order to represent a worst case 
scenario and to build in some tolerance. But whatever rate it used IFM acknowledged that 
achieving such a yield was unlikely to be a realistic proposition. I agree thats the case, but 
its comparison was against the BSPS. However, as I've said above, Mr H didnt have the 
option of staying in the BSPS.The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 was 
3.2%. While IFM didnt know at that time what the BSPS2 figures would be we can assume 
the lower annual increases under the BSPS2 would have likely decreased the critical yield 
compared to the BSPS. But, I think those would have been higher than the critical yield 
matching the PPF benefits at age 65.
IFM gave its advice during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of the transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.3% a year for 15 years to retirement. And 
its notable that the discount rate would drop to 3.1% when adjusted for Mr H retiring at age 
55. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year.
I've taken these figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Hs medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. While those critical 
yields didn't reflect the benefits from BSPS2, as I've already said, its likely that the BSPS2 
benefits would have been higher than the PPF at age 65. So I think the critical yield would 
likely have been nearer to the BSPS than the PPF figure. And in those circumstances its 
unlikely that the discount rate or the regulators middle growth rate would have met or 
exceeded the critical yield required to match the benefits from the BSPS2. So it seems 
unlikely that investing in the named personal pension could match the benefits from the DB 
scheme.
Further, there would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through 
a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, similar levels of benefits outside the scheme. The 
critical yield to match the BSPS at age 65 was 6.4%. So it would likely have been slightly 
lower to match the BSPS2 benefits. But that still would almost certainly have been above the 
discount rate of 4.3%. It also would most likely have been above the regulators mid-level 
projection of 5%, which is the level of growth Mr H could reasonably expect with his attitude 
to risk. So, I think Mr H was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those 
provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension and took benefits at age 65, 
as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
In addition, if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real 
chance that Mr Hs fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And while 
IFM did point out some of these risks to Mr H, as I've said above, I believe it should have 
deferred providing its advice until more was known about the BSPS2. And then it should 
have advised Mr H that opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which would be 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension 
would have been better suited to his needs.
Also, its notable that IFM has itself identified that the critical yields were unlikely to be met by 
transferring. But it said in its suitability report that, as Mr H didnt wish to buy an annuity, the 
critical yield figure was largely academic. In other words its dismissed the figure as being 
of little use. However, I find the critical yield is a useful tool as it is a reasonable comparison 
of the growth required in order to replace DB benefits with something of a similar nature, that 
is a product that would provide a guaranteed income for life.
Also, at the time of IFMs advice, the regulator required it to consider the rate of investment 
growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think its a relevant consideration 
here. Thats particularly the case as I dont think Mr H could realistically say with any 
certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. While he said 
he wanted to retire at age 55, over five years away, the scheme retirement age of 65 was 
still over 15 years away. And its entirely possible that Mr H would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
But, critical yields are not the only measure we use to compare pension benefits. And, in this 
case I've also looked at the regulators projection rates. But, as I've said above, those figures 
dont, in my view, support a transfer away from Mr Hs DB scheme as being in his best 
interests on financial grounds.
I note that our investigator felt that, given his wish to retire early, IFM should have advised 
Mr H to allow his funds to go to the PPF. But, for the reasons I expand upon below, I dont 
think that early retirement was in Mr Hs best interests or something that Mr H was genuinely 
set on. And as such, whatever Mr H told IFM at the time, I don't think that moving to the PPF 
was the right thing for him to do. Further, once Mr Hs benefits had moved to the PPF he 
wouldnt have had the option of transferring those benefits to another scheme at a later date 
if he felt that was suitable for him at that time. So I dont think that a recommendation to 
move to the PPF was in Mr Hs best interests. And, given that a transfer to a personal 
pension wasnt financially viable for Mr H, I think IFM should have advised him to move his 
benefits to the BSPS2.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And IFM 
has said that its recommendation allowed Mr H to achieve his other objectives. So I've gone 
on to consider whether IFM has clearly demonstrated that the advice to transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that IFMs role was to find out what 
Mr Hs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr H wanted 
without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its 
recommendation was in his best interests.
Flexibility, early retirement and income requirement
A key reason IFM recommended Mr H transfer was for the flexibility it offered him. Having 
considered the evidence, I dont think Mr H had a genuine need to access his pension funds 
earlier than the normal scheme retirement age.
Mr H told IFM that his preference was to retire at 55. I can fully understand his wish to retire 
early. In fact I think most people would say that they would like to retire early if given the 
chance. I also think most people would understand that having the opportunity to retire early 
isn't worth compromising their income security for the remainder of their retirement for. It 
seems to me that this is something Mr H was likely to reassess once he reached age 55. In 
fact Mr H will turn 55 this year and hes confirmed to us that he has no concrete plans to 
retire at present. And as such, I think early retirement was something that was  most likely 
 nice to have rather than a genuine need for Mr H.
Further, if Mr H had a genuine need for early retirement then he might have been better off 
by opting for a transfer to the PPF. It was well-known that the manner in which PPF 
calculates its early retirement factors, including TFC sums, are more generous than in many 
DB schemes, including the BSPS. But in this case IFM told Mr H that early retirement from 
the PPF wasnt an option for him, which  as I've already said  was simply wrong. And as a 
result IFM hasnt presented the information needed in order to see what Mr H might have 
been entitled to from the PPF if he retired early. And, while I dont think a move to the PPF would have been in Mr Hs best interests, in order to allow him to make a fully informed 
decision this was something that IFM needed to do.
In any event I dont think Mr H had a concrete need to take early retirement. As I've said 
above I can understand why he would want to retire at age 55. But, for most people, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely 
prospect for Mr H. But theres no evidence that IFM seriously challenged his wish of early 
retirement at age 55. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light 
of what he would be giving up.
Mr H was still over five years away from 55 and 15 from 65. So he had no need to make an 
urgent decision to transfer out of his DB scheme, as  if IFM had deferred completing its 
advice process  he could have opted to move into the BSPS2. And, if he still felt that he 
wanted to retire before age 65, and felt that the income from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for 
his needs at that time, he could have considered transferring his DB benefits to another 
scheme at that point. But that wasnt a decision he needed to make when he was still only 
49 years old. However, it doesn't appear that IFM put that option to him.
That said, its true to say that Mr H couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take his DB 
one early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time 
as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow 
Mr H to draw down funds as he saw fit. But while I can see why that might have been an 
attractive prospect to him, Im not persuaded that Mr H had any concrete need to take TFC 
at all or to vary his income throughout retirement.
I'm aware that Mr H said hed like to pay off his mortgage if he retired early. But theres no 
evidence he was in mortgage arrears or struggling to meet those payments. So he had no 
requirement to take TFC in order to pay his mortgage off early. And its not the case that 
Mr H wouldnt have any flexible access to funds, as he would have been able to draw down 
sums from his money purchase pension. So while the option of drawing all his pension 
income flexibly might seem like something that would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr H 
had any genuine need for that flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits 
for at the time that IFM gave its advice. So I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And I note that the suitability report says 
that a key objective for Mr H was allowing his family to inherit his pension on his death. So 
the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive 
feature to Mr H. Thats because whatever was left within Mr Hs personal pension at the date 
of his death would be passed on to his children. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr H about 
what was best for his retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr H was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his family that they may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund 
could have been depleted by Mr Hs withdrawals from it.IFM said Mr Hs pension fund would last beyond his life-expectancy. So Mr H might have 
thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for family on his death. But, IFMs models 
were based on the fund growing by 5% every year. And if the fund grew by less than IFM 
expected, or suffered losses, then there would be less available as a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr H drew down money from it. And if he drew down 
heavily from it in the early years of his retirement, then those deductions would reduce the 
lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. In fact every time Mr H took a 
withdrawal he would be reducing the amount available as a legacy for his family.
If Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life insurance might 
have been a better solution for him. Mr H already had a significant death in service benefit 
through his employer. He also had the funds invested in his money purchase pension 
scheme. But if he wanted an extra sum to cover his retirement years, then he could have 
taken extra cover out on a whole of life basis. But theres no evidence that IFM discussed 
this with Mr H.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But IFM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
IFM was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr H about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Hs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And 
ultimately, I dont think the advice IFM gave to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension Mr H was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think 
there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when IFM gave its advice. But it became 
clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead and IFM said itself that full details 
were expected shortly. Mr H had at least five years to his preferred retirement age and over 
15 years to the schemes normal retirement age. So his needs in retirement could have 
changed in the meantime. And by opting into the BSPS2 Mr H would have kept the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. So, I think IFM 
should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2. Also, while unmarried at the date of the 
advice, Mr H was living with his partner. And if he chose to re-marry in the future, under the 
BSPS2 his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr H chose to do so). The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for IFMs advice. And, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he 
would have done so. Thats because, Mr Hs BSPS pension accounted for a significant portion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and 
that he would likely be worse off as a result of doing so, I think he would have accepted that 
advice. Im also not persuaded Mr Hs concerns about the future of the DB scheme was so 
great that he would have gone against IFMs advice. Thats because IFM had the opportunity 
to clearly explain that the scheme trustees and his employer were not one and the same. 
And that the future of the pensions scheme was in the process of being taken out of the 
employers hands. So IFM could have allayed Mr Hs concerns about the uncertainty of the 
scheme. And I don't think those would have been sufficient reason for Mr H to insist on a 
transfer.
It follows that I don't think IFMs advice to Mr H to transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable 
for him. And I think it should have advised him to opt into the BSPS2 instead. So, I think IFM 
should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology. And, as this matter has been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr H, I think IFM should also pay him £300 to address that.
Neither IFM nor Mr H made any substantive comments concerning my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither IFM nor Mr H objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document  
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He would like 
his complaint to be settled in line with the new guidance/rules.
I consider its fair that IFM calculates Mr Hs redress in line with the new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have most 
likely opted to move his benefits to BSPS2 if IFM had given suitable advice.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr H.
IFM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).
For clarity, while Mr H had told IFM hed prefer to retire at age 55, hes told us he has no 
concrete plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and IFM has 
received notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes IFM to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IFM deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. IFM should give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman