DRN-3445977
The complaint
Mr W complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) refused to extend his 
income protection cover, after previously advising this was possible. 
What happened
Mr W held an income protection policy with LV since 2011. And he said he took the policy 
out to cover his mortgage payments in the event that he was unable to work. 
The policy was planned to run until October 2021. However Mr W had seen information on 
his annual statement suggesting the policy term could be extended. Mr W decided he 
wanted to extend the cover beyond 2021, and asked LV about this. LV said it no longer sold 
the product Mr W held, so it was unable to extend the term beyond the planned end date. 
The statement sent to Mr W in April 2021 contained the following wording under the heading 
Increases or decreases at any other time. 
You can also increase or decrease your cover, change the end date of your cover, 
or change some other aspects of your Plan, at any time. Depending on the change 
you are requesting, there may be some instances where we will ask you for 
information on your health or occupation before agreeing to change your cover. All 
changes will be subject to the limits which apply at that time .
And the terms of Mr Ws policy set out the conditions around making changes to the cover. 
You can apply to change the amount of your cover, your waiting period or the term 
of
your policy at any time.
Unfortunately, we cant guarantee that youll be able to do this, as it will depend on 
your age,
health and medical history, leisure activities and whether were offering the same 
type of insurance at that time.
Mr W complained to LV. LV said the wording on the statement it sent in April 2021, stating 
that Mr W could change the end date of his cover, was an error. It said it had stopped selling 
the particular policy Mr W had in 2017, so it could no longer offer an extension on the cover. 
And it said it didnt think it needed to inform Mr W it had stopped selling his type of policy, as 
this change didnt impact the cover term he had in place at the time. 
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said they thought LV had made an error in the 
information it provided in the statement. And because of this, they thought it should pay £150 
in compensation.
LV accepted the investigators view. However Mr W disagreed. In summary he said LV 
should have informed him when it stopped offering his type of policy in 2017. And had it 
done so, it would have given him more time to look for a new policy, which might have been 
cheaper than the ones he could access in 2021. 
Mr W asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say LV has a 
responsibility to communicate in a way which is clear fair and not misleading. And must act 
honestly and fairly.
Having done so, I think LV needs to do something to put things right. And Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy with LV state policyholders can apply to 
make changes to their cover. However, they go on to say that requested changes are 
not guaranteed. The terms specify that LV may need to check various information 
with the policyholder to confirm the change. And they say the change is also 
dependant on whether or not LV is still offering the same type of insurance. So in this 
case, although Mr W was entitled to ask LV if it would change the terms of his cover, 
I think the policy terms make it clear that this is dependant on checks LV may want to 
make, and that the same policy still has to be available. And at the time Mr W 
enquired about the change in 2021, his type of policy had not been sold since 2017. 
So I dont think LV acted unfairly in not agreeing to extend Mr Ws cover beyond the 
planned end date. 
Mr W has said LV should have informed him in 2017 when it stopped selling the 
policy he held. Ive considered this and the points Mr W has made. However, LVs 
decision to stop selling the product to new customers didnt impact Mr Ws policy, 
and this continued to run as normal until the planned end date. LV is entitled to 
decide which products it wants to offer and when it wants to stop offering a product. 
And Mr W hadnt told LV he had any intention to extend his cover term at the time the 
product was withdrawn to new customers. So I dont think it would be fair to expect 
that LV would notify Mr W of a change that wouldnt necessarily impact him.
Mr W has said if LV had informed him it was no longer offering his policy in 2017, he 
would have had more time to look for a new policy, and this may have been cheaper 
at that time. Whilst I dont dispute what Mr W has said, I think he may be exercising 
some benefit of hindsight. He first contacted LV about the possibility of extending his 
cover in February 2021 and was correctly advised that the policy couldnt be 
extended. So this persuades me that had Mr W contacted LV at any earlier point 
since the policy was withdrawn to new customers in 2017, he would have been given 
the same correct information about being unable to extend his cover. But as he didnt 
ask LV about this until 2021, I dont think it would be fair to hold LV accountable for 
the extra time he could have had to look for a new policy, had he raised the question 
sooner. 
The annual statement sent to Mr W in April 2021 said the end date of the cover could 
be changed at any time. And it went on to say LV may need to check information 
before agreeing to make the change, and it said changes would be subject to the limits which apply at the time. I agree that this information was misleading, as in 
2021, the cover could no longer be extended, because the product was no longer for 
sale. LV said this information was included on the 2021 statement in error. And it 
accepted our investigators recommendation that it should pay Mr W £150 because 
of the mistake. 
I think £150 is sufficient to compensate Mr W for the impact of the error in the 
information he was provided on his statement in April 2021. I say this because when 
Mr W previously contacted LV in February 2021 to discuss extending his cover, he 
was correctly informed that this wasnt possible. And, both the statement and the 
terms and conditions contain wording which explains that changes to the cover are 
subject to limits, or to the policy still being offered. So although LV made an error in 
stating that the end date of the cover could be changed, Im satisfied it was clear this 
wasnt guaranteed to be possible. So I dont think any higher amount of 
compensation is warranted in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to pay Mr W £150 in compensation. 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman