DRN-3426881
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was impacted by Covid-19.
Mr F, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf. 
My references to Lloyds include its underwriting syndicate and the agent it used to look into 
the claim.
What happened
G operates a caf business. G held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. 
G claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. Its director Mr F had 
symptoms of Covid-19 and he called the NHSs 111 helpline. He says he was instructed to 
self-isolate until his symptoms disappeared, after which an additional two-week self-isolation 
period was necessary. He was specifically told that his staff members should isolate for two 
weeks because interacting with them for longer than 15 minutes meant that he could have 
passed the virus on to them.
Lloyds initially referred to an exclusion for epidemic to reject Gs claim. G pointed out why 
this didnt apply, which Lloyds accepted. But it still turned down Gs claim under the 
business interruption extension of the policy. Lloyds said that Mr Fs symptoms were not the 
cause of Gs closure, given G had been forced to closed on 20 March 2020. 
Mr F said that G had been permitted to stay open to provide takeaway and delivery services, 
so Lloyds was wrong to say G had been forced to close on 20 March 2020. Lloyds said this 
did not change its position because Mr Fs symptoms did not meet the policy requirements of 
an outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at Gs premises. 
Unhappy with Lloyds handling and response to his complaint, G brought its complaint to our 
service. Mr F said he was forced to close G for a three-week period to protect his staff and 
customers. He has sent evidence of this in his spreadsheet of daily takings for the caf. At 
the end of the three-week period Mr F deep cleaned and disinfected the premises and only 
then reopened for takeaway and deliveries. As the manager of a new business his presence 
was required for it to be run efficiently. Therefore, G could not re-open until his three-week 
isolation period was over. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but did not uphold it. Ultimately, she did not 
consider that G had shown it was most likely that there had been an outbreak of Covid-19 
at its business premises. She said an outbreak would mean more than one case. 
G did not agree and Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said Lloyds had failed to 
deal with Gs claim properly. He cannot now provide any evidence of his call to NHS 111, 
and it is unfair and obstructive that Lloyds did not tell him the evidence he would need to 
provide to support Gs claim at the time he made it. He and his staff have provided 
statements of truth about the circumstances of the closure, but they cannot now provide any 
additional contemporaneous evidence of the reason for the closure such as WhatsApp 
messages. Also, he does not agree that an outbreak of an infectious disease occurs when 
more than one person has the disease.
Our investigator contacted Mr F to explain in more detail why she did not think G had shown 
there had been an outbreak of Covid-19 at its business premises. As outbreak had not 
been specifically defined in the policy, she referred to definitions both in the dictionary and 
on the World Health Organisations website. She also referred to legal cases including the 
Financial Services Authoritys (FCA) business interruption insurance test case. She thought 
it likely that a court would find there needed to be more than one occurrence of Covid-19 at 
the premises in order for it to be an outbreak, and that an ombudsman would also follow this 
approach.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view about an outbreak of disease. In summary, he 
said: 
Covid-19 was a pandemic. The Government and NHS guidance was that anyone 
displaying symptoms of Covid-19 should consider themselves infected with the 
disease and isolate themselves. In normal circumstances, an isolated incidence of 
the disease would not be considered an outbreak because there is an assumption 
that it might not be directly related to the premises where the incident happened. But 
this logic doesnt extend to Gs case, because Covid-19 was a highly infectious 
disease, where anyone with symptoms were deemed to have been infected and 
should isolate. This applied to anyone in contact with a person deemed to have 
Covid-19 and so plurality is established. 
With reference to the FCA test case, there is a clear argument that one occurrence 
described as an outbreak has a sufficient degree of unity in relation to time, locality, 
and cause to establish that multiple cases are present. These conditions are satisfied 
when viewed from the perspective of official advice, where any contact with an 
infected individual should be treated as an infection, to include anyone in contact with 
that individual. This logic was the entire basis for the Test and Trace app and the 
Governments guidance. 
When Mr F had symptoms of Covid-19, his team were also deemed have contracted 
Covid-19 and were all required to isolate and abide by the rules as though they were 
all infected, which means there was more than one case in the premises and thus 
plurality.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only briefly summarised the evidence, I have read and carefully considered 
all the evidence that Mr F, on behalf of G has provided in support of its claim. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Gs claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Gs policy covers loss of net takings directly as a 
result of:
Closure  of the premises by a competent authority due to:
a) An outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. So, for this extension to 
provide cover for Gs claim, the closure of the premises would need to be as a result of an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises. 
An outbreak isnt defined in the policy, so Ive thought about how it should be interpreted. As 
our investigator has explained, some dictionary definitions give the meaning of an outbreak 
as something (generally unwelcome, such as a war) suddenly occurring. In the case of war, 
for example, this would require only one war. The World Health Organisations website says 
that an outbreak is:
an occurrence of cases of a disease in excess of what would normally be 
expected in a defined community, geographical area or season
However, I think its likely that a court would find that there needs to be more than one 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises in order to be an outbreak. 
In the FCA business interruption test case, the Supreme Court didnt specifically consider 
how many cases would be needed for an outbreak. But at paragraph 69 the court said:
Nor for that matter could an outbreak of disease be regarded as one occurrence, 
unless the individual cases of disease described as an outbreak have a sufficient 
degree of unity in relation to time, locality and cause.
Also, in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), the
Judge referred to an outbreak as plural.
Ive considered that any case of Covid-19 at Gs premises would be part of the wider general
outbreak of Covid-19. But I think its clear in Gs policy that its the occurrence of the
outbreak itself that needs to be at Gs premises, rather than an occurrence of the disease
itself.
Ive therefore considered whether G has shown there was most likely as outbreak of Covid-
19 at its premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their 
policy covers. 
Mr F has told us that he phoned the NHSs 111 helpline on 24 March 2020 as he had 
symptoms of Covid-19. The staff members then working for G have also provided 
statements to confirm that Mr F had flu like symptoms. They said that he had contacted 
them the same day to ask them to self-isolate in line with the instructions he had received 
from the NHS. 
The difficulty that I have is that there is no additional, contemporaneous evidence to show 
that G had an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises. On Mr Fs evidence, only he had 
symptoms and theres no additional evidence that these symptoms were Covid-19. I have to 
bear in mind that many people with symptoms of Covid-19 at that time didnt actually have 
the disease.  
Mr F says, in summary, that the Governments and NHSs guidance was that someone with 
symptoms of Covid-19, or had been in contact with Covid-19, should isolate because they 
were deemed to be infected. So, he says this establishes the sufficient degree of unity in 
relation to time, locality and cause as described by the Supreme Court in the FCA test case. 
He says that as he and his staff were deemed to have been infected, this also satisfies the 
requirement for plurality, with reference to the Rockliffe Hall case. 
I have carefully considered Mr Fs arguments for why he considers G has satisfied the 
requirements to show there was an outbreak at Gs premises, but I dont agree. I say this 
because I dont think that Mr Fs symptoms or the guidance for both he and his staff to 
self-isolate is enough to show Covid-19 at the premises. The absence of WhatsApp 
messages with Gs staff does not make any difference to the outcome, because the staff 
statements say that they isolated only because of Mr Fs symptoms.
  
I appreciate that Mr F closed the takeaway and delivery side of Gs business for three weeks 
for the safety of its staff and customers, and because the staff had been asked to self-
isolate. But to uphold Gs complaint, Id need to decide it was more likely than not that there 
was an outbreak of Covid-19 at Gs premises. In this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence 
that there was a case of Covid-19 at Gs premises or, in turn, an outbreak of Covid-19 at 
Gs premises. So, I consider that Lloyds fairly turned down its claim. 
As Mr F says, Lloyds was wrong to say his business had been forced to close on 20 March 
2020 and this was most frustrating for him. He pointed out that G had been permitted to 
remain open for takeaway and delivery business. Lloyds did then confirm the correct reason 
for Gs claim being turned down, and I think it fairly concluded that G had not shown there 
had been an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises, as required for the policy to respond. 
Mr F did not suggest to Lloyds or to our service that his staff also had symptoms of
Covid-19, during their self-isolation period.
Mr F has said that Lloyds should have told him the evidence that he needed to supply. But it 
did explain that he needed to show Covid-19 at the premises. And in any event, I dont think 
Lloyds handling of the claim made any material difference to the outcome. 
I say this because Mr Fs own testimony and that of his staff is that only Mr F had symptoms. 
There is no additional evidence that these symptoms were due to Covid-19 and, in any 
event, one case would not be enough to show an outbreak of Covid-19 at Gs premises for 
the reasons Ive explained. So even if Mr F had obtained evidence from the NHS 111 
services records, this would not be enough for Gs claim to succeed. I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to Mr F but, having considered the matter 
very carefully I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman