DRN-2405056
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans 
(Satsuma)) gave him unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr L took four instalment loans from Satsuma between January 2016 and July 2019. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
Instalments*Amount 
Borrowed
1 16/01/2016 21/10/2016 39 £500.00
2 29/10/2016 16/03/2017 39 £750.00
3 04/03/2017 16/03/2017 9 £900.00
     
4 16/07/2019 outstanding 12 £2,000.00
*Loans 1 and 2 were to be repaid in 39 weekly instalments. Loans 3 and 4 were to be repaid 
in monthly instalments.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ls complaint. He didnt think Satsuma were wrong to 
provide loans 1 and 2 based on the information it gathered about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances. But the adjudicator thought that further checks were warranted for Mr Ls 
third loan. And had Satsuma done this, the adjudicator thought it would it would have seen 
that Mr L could not sustain the loan repayments.
For loan 4, the adjudicator thought that Satsumas checks were proportionate given that this 
was a new chain of lending due to the break in borrowing between loans 3 and 4. The 
adjudicator thought loan 4 appeared affordable based on the information declared by Mr L.
It appears that Satsuma agreed with our adjudicators opinion as it made an offer to settle 
loan 3. Mr L disagreed and provided the following complaint points;
Mr L says further checks should have been carried out by Satsuma at the time of 
applying for loan 4. 
In the two months prior to loan 4 Mr L had taken out six loans totalling over £10,000. 
Mr L says he had numerous other debts as well which added with these more recent 
loans, totalled around £20,000. Mr L told us he had an arrangement to repay a 
£3,000 overdraft. Mr L has told us details of all of this were on his credit report and 
this should have triggered the need for Satsuma to look further into his finances. 
Satsuma also ought to have seen that Mr L had a gambling problem and was reliant 
on payday and high cost loans.
Mr L finally said that he has had other complaints with our service which have been 
upheld when his financial situation was the same. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr L could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
To begin with, both Mr L and Satsuma seem to accept our adjudicators opinion in relation to 
loans 1-3. It appears that Mr Ls main concerns is about the checks Satsuma carried out 
before granting loan 4. So, this decision will focus on loan 4, and whether Satsuma was 
wrong to approve it. 
But Ive outlined what Satsuma needs to do to put things for loan 3  which is what it seems 
it has already agreed to do. 
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are two lending chains  loans 1-3 
and then loan 4. I say this because Mr L took out loan 4 more than two years after he repaid 
loan 3. And I think this amount of time that had passed was long enough for Satsuma to 
have reasonably assumed that Mr L had overcome whatever financial event that had led him 
to take his previous three loans. So, it wasnt unreasonable for Satsuma to have treated Mr 
Ls application for the fourth loan afresh  and as if he was a new customer. For loan 4, Satsuma asked Mr L to declare his monthly income and expenditure, and it 
completed a credit check. Mr L declared that he had a monthly income of £3,700 and his 
monthly expenditure amounted to £1,750. This left Mr L with a disposable income of around 
£1,950 of which to meet the monthly repayments of £332. So, Satsuma couldve reasonably 
believed Mr L would afford the repayments he was committed to making. Given this was the 
first loan in a new chain I think the checks that Satsuma carried out were proportionate. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has concerns about these figures because they are the same 
figures, he declared in his previous loan applications. I can understand Mr Ls concerns, but 
as this was the first loan in a new chain of lending, and the figures didnt appear to be 
unreasonable, I dont think Satsuma needed to take additional steps to verify the information 
Mr L had provided about his income and expenditure. 
Mr L has also told us he feels his credit file would have shown adverse information which 
Satsuma should have known about before approving the loan.  The information I have 
shows Satsuma completed a credit check before the loan was approved. But the information 
Satsuma received wasnt as detailed as Mr Ls full credit check, but that doesnt mean it was 
unreasonable for Satsuma to reply on the information it was given. 
The credit check results showed Mr L had no County Court Judgements and he wasnt 
subject to a Bankruptcy, IVA or a debt management arrangement. In addition to this, based 
on what Satsuma was given none of his active accounts were in arrears. Satsuma was also 
told that Mr L didnt have any active payday loans and it had been one month since his last 
payday loan.
Mr L has provided a copy of his full credit file showing he had taken out a significant number 
of loans prior to this application. And I acknowledge that his circumstances were very 
different to what Satsuma were aware of. And had Satsuma asked to see a copy of Mr Ls 
full credit report it may have felt this loan shouldnt have been provided.
But Satsuma did carry out a credit check of its own and it was entitled to rely on the 
information that it was provided. In my view, the information it was provided didnt suggest 
that it needed to carry out more in-depth checks or to decline Mr Ls application. And I think, 
given what else Mr L told Satsuma, it wasnt alerted to anything else that may have needed 
further investigation.  So at this stage of the lending relationship, and given what Satsuma 
knew about Mr L, I wouldnt have expected it to verify the information Mr L told it by obtaining 
his bank statements. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has had some of his other complaints upheld about other short-term 
lenders. But, at this service, we look at each individual complaint on its own merits, taking 
into account the individual circumstances of the consumer as well as checks the lender did 
when the loans were approved.   
And in the individual circumstance of this case, based on the information Satsuma gathered 
about Mr Ls circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that it made the decision to 
lend. I understand that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr L, but I hope my explanation 
will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right
Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards 
interest, fees and charges for loan 3.It should then calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L 
which were considered as part of the above, calculated from the date Mr L originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Satsuma should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loan 3.
If Satsuma still has control over the outstanding balance due for loan 4, then Satsuma can, if 
it wishes, use the above refund to offset any balance due. If Satsuma doesnt have control 
then it needs to work with the third to achieve the same results as Ive outlined above.
Finally, Id remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr L fairly. 
*HMRC requires you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr L asks you for a certificate 
showing how much tax youve taken off, you should provide this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Mr Ls complaint is partly upheld. 
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman