DRN-3854328
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
Capital One registered a default on Mr Bs account on 31 January 2022 as no payments had 
been made since 6 June 2021. 
Mr B says he asked for breathing space on his account in September 2021, Capital One 
agreed but he says he was not told when it would end, nor that his account was still at risk of 
being defaulted. Mr B says Capital One did not do enough to make him aware of the 
situation before registering the default. It knows he does not live primarily in the UK yet it 
sent the notices to a UK address, and not even the right one.
Mr B wants the default removing and compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. He says it is causing him substantial issues, impacting his ability to get credit 
elsewhere.
Capital One says it cannot remove the default as it must report how he managed his account 
accurately to the credit reference agencies. It applied breathing space, stopping all interest 
and charges to assist Mr B, after he told it he was struggling to make his repayments.  The 
call recording from this date is not available so it is not known if Mr B was told his account 
could still default, but it sent an email on 13 September 2021 that confirmed this. It sent a 
default notice to Mr B on 4 December 2021 and confirmation the account had defaulted on 
30 December 2021. It said it has used the address Mr B provided at the time of application 
and that he had not wanted it to be updated when he spoke to Capital One on 14 February 
2022.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He found Capital One had fairly defaulted 
the account. He said Capital One had sent the required notices in advance and followed the 
industry guidelines for defaulting accounts. He said Mr B had not requested for mail not to be 
sent to his UK address. And the address was the one Capital One had used over the years 
without any issues, it was confirmed as technically correct by Mr B in February 2022 and he 
had declined to update it.  
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the 
investigation showed bias. All of his communication with Capital One since 2013 has been 
via phone or secure messaging. The breathing space email was worded in a very 
subjective way and no default notice was sent by email. He asks why he did not receive the 
default notice in January 2022  as if he had, why would he not have made a payment to 
avoid the long-term detrimental impact of a default? He says there is no proof of delivery. 
And the fact he did not update his address in February is not relevant as that was after this 
event. Overall, it is not reasonable to conclude he should have been expected to receive his 
default notice by post. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I will explain why, but first want to address his point that 
we are siding with Capital One and showing bias. We are an independent and impartial 
organisation and we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers - it is not in our interest to 
find in favour of one party over the other.
I have not found evidence of errors on the part of Capital One in this case. Given the number 
of missed payments it was reasonable for it to start the default process when it did. It had 
responded fairly when Mr B was struggling, putting a hold on interest and charges. And I find 
it was fair to send the regulatory notices by post to the address it held for Mr B. I accept that 
they may not have reached Mr B but as the bank has evidenced they were sent, I cannot 
fairly hold it liable for the non-receipt. It issued the default notice to Mr B by post as it does 
for all such regulatory notices. 
I disagree with Mr Bs point that it was not reasonable to use the post. He had not made a 
request that mail was no longer used and had opted in to post when he opened the account. 
I disagree that knowing Mr B lived overseas was a reason not to use the post  Capital One 
had used mail successfully during the life of the account for things like issuing replacement 
cards.  Mr B argues it is not relevant that he did not want to update the address in February 
2022. But I think it is as that in effect confirms he was still happy his correspondence could 
be sent to that same address that the default notice was sent to.
Unfortunately the call recording from the discussion about breathing space is not available 
for me to listen to so I cannot know what Mr B was told. But I think the follow up email is 
clear that his account could still default. It said Well still send you important messages, 
including if you are at risk of being defaulted or permanently using the use of your card. If 
you receive any of these, they still apply. 
So, on balance, I am satisfied Capital One met is regulatory obligations and took reasonable 
steps to notified Mr B of its intent to default his account. And the default was an accurate 
reflection of how he had managed the account.
Overall I have found no failings on the part of Capital One. It follows I am not instructing it to 
remove the default and I am not awarding any compensation to Mr B.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman