DRN-3387631
The complaint
Miss B has complained that AvantCredit of UK LLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in March 2022 that I summarise below.
Miss B was given a loan of £5,800 by AvantCredit in March 2017. The loan was due to be
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of about £156. If the loan ran to term, the total amount
repayable including interest was just over £7,523. I understand the loan was settled in 2018.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
AvantCredit needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure.  I said that AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't 
lend to Miss B irresponsibly. And that the lender should have carried out proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that she could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this matter 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
AvantCredit asked Miss B for information about her income and expenditure and it acquired
a credit report. AvantCredit says it verified Miss Bs income and assessed that the loan was
affordable in her circumstances.
Miss B declared her monthly expenses and a net monthly income of around £1,963. The
credit report that AvantCredit acquired showed that in addition to her mortgage, Miss B had
existing debt of over £16,00 from an unsecured loan, an overdraft and two credit cards which
were at 95% of their balance to limit ratio. The credit report also showed that Miss B had
previously defaulted on at least two credit accounts, but I think it would have been
reasonable for the lender to consider these defaults to be historic.
I thought that whilst the credit report didnt show significantly adverse information about Miss 
Bs credit history, it did show that she had a high level of personal debt, in addition to her 
mortgage. AvantCredit says it took this into account when it calculated that Miss B had 
sufficient disposable income to meet her repayments. But Miss B was applying to 
AvantCredit for a costly loan, repayable over an extended period. Taking everything into
account, I would have expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of
Miss Bs financial circumstances  including an independent check of her regular monthly
expenses - to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay her loan over the whole loan
term. Overall, from what Id seen, I could not fairly say that the checks AvantCredit carried 
out were fair reasonable and proportionate.
So as well as asking Miss B for information and acquiring a credit check, I thought 
AvantCredit should have carried out more detailed and independent checks into Miss Bs 
financial circumstances  for example by asking to see her bank statements.
However, even if AvantCredit had carried out more in-depth checks at the time, it was not 
clear to me whether the lender would have uncovered anything that would have shown that 
Miss B might have difficulty repaying her loan sustainably. Miss B was asked to provide her 
bank statements by this Service, but she hasnt been able to do so. I couldnt fairly say, from 
what Id seen, that better checks ought reasonably to have led AvantCredit to conclude that 
it shouldnt lend to Miss B.
And from what Id seen so far, Miss B appeared to have sufficient disposable income to be
able to afford the loan, despite her high levels of personal debt. On balance, I couldnt fairly 
say that I thought AvantCredit ought simply to have declined the loan application based on 
the information it had gathered about Miss Bs circumstances. But I did think its checks 
should reasonably have prompted AvantCredit to look further into Miss Bs financial position.
Id not seen anything which made me think that AvantCredit treated Miss B unfairly in any
other way. But as I explained, on the information provided, I couldnt fairly say that I thought 
AvantCredit ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Miss B.
I invited both parties to send me further evidence or comment. Ive not seen any new 
information from AvantCredit. Miss B has said she doesnt agree with my provisional 
decision and she doesnt think I am treating her fairly as a consumer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss B disagreed with my provisional decision, but she hasnt provided any 
further information about her financial circumstances at the time she took the loan. I 
explained in my provisional decision that whilst I thought the lender should gone further with 
its checks, without additional information, I couldnt fairly say that I think AvantCredit ought 
reasonably to have declined Miss Bs loan application.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I know Miss B will be disappointed by my decision. But Id like to reassure her
that I have carefully considered everything that both she and AvantCredit have told us and
all the information that has been provided. Having done so, I do not uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
AvantCredit of UK LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman