DRN-2803591
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly by granting him a loan that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S took out a single loan with Bamboo. Heres a table showing loan details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Number of Monthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
Amountmonthly  
repayment*
1 15/11/2019 Not paid 24 £2,000 £123.46
When Mr S complained to Bamboo that the loan was unaffordable it agreed to uphold his 
complaint. Bamboo offered to waive the amount of ££962.99 which was all the interest 
that was due under the loan agreement. 
Mr S didnt feel this went far enough to address all his concerns. His view was that Bamboo 
shouldnt have sold the unpaid loan to a third-party debt collection agent and he wants 
Bamboo to write off the full balance as he says he will never be in a position to repay it. 
Mr S also told us that the money Bamboo irresponsibly lent him has directly caused his 
already poor mental health to deteriorate dramatically. And that the constant insistence on 
the money being repaid, despite Mr S explaining his health problems and bad financial 
situation, is destroying his chance of recovery. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ss concerns and she didnt think Bamboo had acted fairly. 
Although our adjudicator felt it was fair that Mr S should repay the money he had borrowed 
and had the use of, her view was that Bamboo should refund all of the interest and charges 
Mr S paid on his loan.
And our adjudicator also suggested that Bamboo should do the following:
 Purchase the debt back from the third-party debt collection business it sold the loan to 
(from now on in my decision Ill refer to this business as T)
 Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan.
 Attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S and keep in mind that he 
has said that he is in extreme financial difficulty.
In response to our adjudicators view, Bamboo agreed to settle the complaint the way she 
had suggested  except that it wasnt prepared to buy back the debt it had sold to T. It said 
that requesting T to adjust the balance and set-up an affordable repayment plan direct with 
Mr S was the simplest option, as this process was already in place. 
Our adjudicator felt that overall this was a fair and reasonable way to settle Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view. In brief summary, he has provided medical 
evidence which shows that when he took out this loan he was already facing serious mental 
health problems as a result of being the victim of a violent crime.
Mr S mentioned a phone call with someone at T. I have only seen what Mr S has told me 
about this  I havent heard the call so I dont know exactly what was said. But its clear to 
me that Mr S had a very distressing experience on the phone with T when hed been spoken 
to in a way that hed found completely unsympathetic. Mr S said this led to him needing to 
see his doctor and left his mental health in a very poor state. 
As a result, Mr S has told us that he will not accept any offer that includes the involvement of 
T. And he has asked again if Bamboo will write off the debt which it admits having 
irresponsibly lent which Mr S says has become one of the single biggest factors in the 
decline of his mental health. 
At my request our adjudicator approached Bamboo again to ask if it will reconsider its 
decision not to buy back the debt from T. Bamboo confirmed it would not change its position 
on this as it said it has a contractual right to sell a debt and this is transparently stated within 
its contracts.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive taken carefully into account everything that hes told us. 
And Im very sorry to learn about the impact of this debt on him and how difficult his 
circumstances are. But I must be impartial and act in a way that is fair and reasonable to 
both Mr S and Bamboo. 
The Ombudsman approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our 
website and Ive followed it here. 
Both Mr S and Bamboo are in agreement that this loan shouldnt have been provided to 
Mr S. So, I dont need to look at Bamboos decision to provide this loan. I simply need to 
decide whether what it has offered to do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Bamboo putting Mr S in 
the position hed now be in if he hadnt been provided with his loan.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr S 
was given the loan in question and he used the funds. 
So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not 
possible to put Mr S back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been given the loan in 
the first place  even if a relatively short period of time has passed  because Mr S doesnt have the £2,000.00 or so available to return to Bamboo for the agreement to be immediately 
unwound.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind the particular circumstances of the case. And Id like to 
explain the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Bamboo to put things 
right in the following way.
As we explain on our website (which Mr S and Bamboo have both referred to) where we 
find, or a lender agrees, credit was provided irresponsibly, wed typically say its fair and 
reasonable to expect the borrower to repay the funds they were lent but not any associated 
interest, fees or charges. But having given careful thought to the matter before me and the 
circumstances of this particular case, I dont think that such an award goes far enough here. 
I think that this is the case for two reasons.  
Firstly, it seems to me that Bamboo lent to Mr S at a time when he wasnt working and his 
only income was from universal credit. And in these circumstances, proportionate checks are 
likely to have shown he was unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent let alone the 
associated interest. Bamboo accepts that it shouldnt have lent in these circumstances.
Its also my understanding that Mr Ss mental health has worsened due to the current 
situation and hes unlikely to be returning to work anytime soon. So I think that things will 
clearly be difficult for him in these times given his current financial position. And its difficult 
to see how Mr S will be able to make payments to this loan going forward or repay the 
outstanding capital within a reasonable period of time, in these circumstances, without 
experiencing severe financial difficulty. 
Bamboo accepts that the available evidence shows Mr S has a mental health condition. And 
it seems to me that it may have sold Mr Ss debt in the knowledge of this. 
Bearing this in mind as well as Mr Ss current financial position and the amount of distress 
and inconvenience caused by Bamboo unfairly providing this loan to Mr S in the 
circumstances it did, I dont think removing the interest fees and charges goes far enough 
here. 
The circumstances of this case and in particular the financial hardship which is likely to be 
caused by requiring Mr S to pay funds he doesnt have and is unlikely to get, lead me to 
think that the fair and reasonable thing for Bamboo to do here, given all the circumstances, 
is to either buy-back the debt and write off the outstanding balance on the loan, or pay T an 
amount to settle the outstanding balance in full.
As this will result in Mr S having repaid substantially less than the amount he was lent, Im 
satisfied that this also encompasses fair compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
Bamboos actions in relation to providing this loan and its subsequent decision to sell on the 
debt to T caused him. 
So while Ive carefully thought about matters and I may have told Bamboo to pay a 
significant amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions in relation 
to this loan caused Mr S were it not for my direction to write off the outstanding balance, Im 
not making an additional award for distress and inconvenience.
I turn now to Mr Ss credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information on a loan, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is upheld for 
irresponsible lending. However, I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable 
thing to do here given what Im asking Bamboo to do in terms of the loan balance. 
To explain, the basis for Mr Ss referral of his complaint to us was and is that the outstanding 
balance on his loan should be written off because he has no reasonable prospect of repaying it. Ive accepted this is the case and this has played a large part in my intended 
decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
As Im asking Bamboo to do this, removing any adverse information here would require it to 
record that Mr Ss loan was repaid in full and on time. I think that this wholly inaccurate 
information would increase the chances of Mr S being able to access further funds in 
circumstances where he says he has no reasonable prospect of repaying. In my view, this 
would be counterproductive and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any potential 
lender. And I think that it would be unfair to Bamboo and Mr S, unreasonable its logic and 
inaccurate if I asked Bamboo to amend Mr Ss credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect 
what actually happened or will happen here. 
So while this isnt a decision that Im taking lightly, I think its fair and reasonable for Bamboo 
to reflect on what Im asking it to do in relation to the outstanding balance on the loan.
Im planning to say that in the particular circumstances of this case, Bamboo should either 
buy back the debt from T and write off the whole outstanding balance or pay T an amount 
sufficient for the loan to be settled in full. Bamboo should record that it wrote off an 
outstanding balance on Mr Ss credit file should it buy back the debt and take this course of 
action.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S has accepted what I've said in my provisional decision.
Bamboo has sent me detailed representations  in brief summary, it has mainly said:
its lending decision wasnt irresponsible as it completed proportionate checks and the 
credit report it obtained showed Mr S was managing his money well 
it couldnt reasonably have known about Mr S vulnerability when it provided the loan 
 but since it found out that Mr S was suffering from poor mental health and in 
financial hardship it has treated him fairly by removing all interest and putting the 
account on hold
T is effectively an extension of Bamboo and Bamboo doesnt have a process to 
enable it to buy back a debt 
it would like me to explain what Bamboo did wrong which warrants Mr S not having to 
repay money which he has had the benefit of
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Bamboo that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything they have asked me to reconsider.  
Bamboo hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. I appreciate that Bamboo takes a different view to me. But I still 
think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Bamboo should now take the following steps:
A)  either buy back from T the debt Mr S owes in relation to the loan Bamboo provided 
to him and write off the whole outstanding balance or pay T an amount sufficient for 
the loan to be settled in full. 
B) Bamboo should record on Mr Ss credit file that it wrote off this outstanding balance 
(if it buys back the debt and takes this course of action) or otherwise ensure that T 
notes on Mr Ss credit file that the loan balance was written off.
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman