DRN-3216682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that National Westminster Bank Plc would not allow them to extend 
the term of their buy to let mortgage.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a buy to let mortgage with NatWest in 2008. They borrowed around 
£51,000 on interest only repayment over a term of seven years. In 2015, the mortgage term 
came to an end.
Mr and Mrs C asked to extend the term of the mortgage. NatWest declined their request. It 
explained its policy was to only lend up to age 70, and Mr C would turn 70 very shortly. It 
gave Mr and Mrs C six months to re-mortgage elsewhere or sell the property.
Mrs C discussed the possibility of moving the mortgage into her sole name and extending 
the term, but NatWest said that she didnt meet its affordability criteria. 
From the middle of 2017, a number of Mr and Mrs Cs direct debit payments were returned, 
and from January 2018 they made no payments towards the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C sold the property in October 2018, for less than the outstanding mortgage 
balance, leaving a shortfall of around £27,750. 
In 2019, NatWest wrote to Mr and Mrs C about the shortfall balance, to try to reach a 
payment arrangement. Mrs C contacted NatWest and said she wasnt able to pay. She says 
she was told the shortfall would be written off. NatWest then passed the debt onto a third 
party debt collection agency, which Ill call A.
Mr and Mrs C complained. They were unhappy that NatWest declined their request to 
extend the term of the mortgage. They feel they were pressured into selling the property for 
less than it was worth. Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that NatWest and A have pursued them 
for the shortfall balance, particularly when Mrs C says she was told it would be written off, 
and about the fees added to the balance. NatWest didnt uphold their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought NatWest had acted 
reasonably. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs C took the mortgage out, they agreed to repay the outstanding capital at 
the end of the term in 2015.
I think the term of the mortgage is clearly stated in the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs C took out 
the mortgage via a broker. It was therefore the brokers responsibility to explain the terms of 
the mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs C, including the length of the term and that the capital 
balance would need to be repaid at the end.
That said, Id expect NatWest to give fair and reasonable consideration to Mr and Mrs Cs 
request to extend the term.
NatWest declined to extend the term of the mortgage in Mr and Mrs Cs joint names, as they 
said their policy was only to lend up to age 70  and Mr C was turning 70 very shortly. Mr 
and Mrs C think that was discrimination on the grounds of age. 
As our investigator explained, its not our role to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  that is a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. In order to decide that, we need to take a 
number of things into account, including the relevant laws and what we consider to be good 
industry practice at the time. So although it would be for the Courts to say whether or not 
NatWest breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint.
Age is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010, and those provisions came 
into force on 1 October 2012. Prior to that date, there was no restriction on lenders using 
age as a factor in their decision making.
After 1 October 2012, where businesses have carried out a risk assessment based on age, 
the business must base its assessment on relevant information from a source on which its 
reasonable to rely.
NatWest has provided its lending criteria, and the risk assessment it completed when setting 
its age criteria  which pre-dates the Equality Act 2010. It says it reviewed that policy in 2019 
 after Mr and Mrs C made their request to extend the term of the mortgage, and after they 
sold the property. So I cant reasonably say that NatWest acted unreasonably in not 
considering the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 in setting its lending policy.
Ive also thought about whether it was reasonable for NatWest to apply its policy that it would 
not lend after age 70 to Mr and Mrs Cs request to extend the term of the mortgage.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest acted reasonably in declining that request, and the 
request to transfer the mortgage into Mrs Cs sole name. I say that because the property 
was in negative equity and NatWests maximum loan to value for buy to let mortgages was 
75%. And NatWest had reasonable concerns about whether the mortgage would continue to 
be affordable.
Ive carefully considered NatWests notes of its contact with Mr and Mrs C following the end 
of the term, as well as what Mr and Mrs C have told us about the impact on them. I 
appreciate how stressful Mr and Mrs C found the situation, but overall I think NatWest 
treated them fairly. I see it agreed six month extensions with them to give them time to put 
the property on the market or make arrangements to re-mortgage elsewhere. 
I also think NatWest acted reasonably in referring the account to solicitors in mid-2018. I say 
that because, by that point, the mortgage term had ended three years before and the 
property had been on the market for over two years. Mr and Mrs C had also not made any 
payments to the mortgage for several months  so the balance was increasing. So I think its 
reasonable NatWest applied a litigation fee to the account.Mrs C said she was told during a call with NatWest in 2019 that the shortfall balance was 
written off. I cant see anything in NatWests notes of its calls with Mrs C to suggest one of its 
agents said that it wouldnt pursue the shortfall balance. In any case, Mr and Mrs C remain 
liable for the shortfall, and I think its reasonable for NatWest  and its agent A  to contact 
Mr and Mrs C to try to come to an affordable payment arrangement.
Mrs C has raised concerns the shortfall balance was increasing. Following our involvement, 
NatWest realised that it was continuing to apply interest to the account due to an 
administrative error. Its confirmed its reversed the interest charges and wont charge 
interest moving forwards. I think thats fair and I dont think it needs to take any further 
action.
Mr and Mrs C may wish to seek debt advice to help them explore their options regarding the 
shortfall balance. There are independent organisations which provide free debt advice who 
may be able to provide them with support.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that removing the shortfall interest is fair and reasonable and I dont 
require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further action beyond that. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman