DRN-2196923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay their 
home insurance claim for clearing a blocked pipe and carrying out repairs to it.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs W had to have work carried out to their drains to clear a 
blockage. The blockage was cleared by their contractor, who then put a CCTV camera in the 
pipe. He said there was root infestation. He recommended remedial works to the pipe which 
consisted of installing a 7 metre long polyester felt sleeve. Mr and Mrs W presented their 
claim to Lloyds, requesting that it pay the contractors invoice. Lloyds declined the claim, it 
said that while there was cover under the policy for clearing blockages this only applied 
where the pipe had to be broken into to clear the blockage. And that was not needed in this 
case.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. On review our investigator ultimately 
found that the blockage was cleared without it being necessary to break into the pipe. He 
pointed out that there was cover for accidental damage to services in the policy. But as there 
was no evidence that there was physical damage to the pipe and the work carried out was 
preventative work, he didnt think that the damage was covered.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and showed us an opinion from their contractor that the joint 
around the pipe must have been broken in order for the roots to get in. And they showed us 
an opinion from a second contractor who said the blockage was caused by tree roots.
Our investigator maintained his view and the matter has been passed to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to the claim for damage  the clearing of the blockage and the 
subsequent repair to ther pipe.
In respect of clearing the blockage the following policy term applies:
Clearing drain blockages.
If there is a blockage in an underground pipe connecting your home to the main sewer and 
normal methods of releasing the blockage to restore service are unsuccessful, we will pay 
the cost of breaking into and repairing the pipe.
According to the contractors report The engineers attempted to clear the blockage using 
manual methods but discovered the blockage required high pressure equipment, which 
cleared the blockage successfully.
As the pipe didnt require breaking into to clear the blockage, this cover didnt apply.
But as blockages to a pipe can cause damage to it, its possible that the following cover 
might apply in respect of the subsequent repair of the pipe:
Accidental damage to services.
To which there is an exclusion for 
The cost of clearing a blockage which has not caused physical damage to the pipe, drain or 
tank.
But here were talking about accidental damage to the pipe rather than the blockage. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force and 
is not expected and not deliberate. 
The damage itself can be said to have been caused suddenly, when Mr and Mrs W noticed 
the drains overflowing. But it still has to be shown that there was physical damage. The 
contractors said their engineer diagnosed root infestation following a CCTV inspection and 
recommended remedial repairs to the pipe consisting of installing a 7 metre long polyester 
felt sleeve. 
Mr and Mrs W understandably felt they had to get the repairs done straight away. 
Nevertheless the area was unable to be inspected before any repairs were undertaken. So 
there was an assumption that the pipe was damaged rather than any inspection that 
revealed such damage. Mr and Mrs Ws contractor said there must have been damage to 
the pipe by the roots getting in, so they would have had to break the joint. I understand there 
is a DVD of the CCTV inspection. But Mrs W tells us that its not clear and I dont think it 
would show damage to the pipe.
I bear in mind that the blockage was cleared successfully by high pressure equipment, rather 
than cutting equipment. This would indicate to me that the roots werent extensive enough to 
cause the pipe to break. Ive noted that Mrs W has sent us a second opinion from, I 
presume, an engineer. He said the roots entering the pipe were the cause of the blockage. 
But he also said the pipe itself was in good condition. And in order to put the sleeve into it I 
would think it would have to be.
I think it likely that without clear evidence of any break in the pipe or the joint, that the roots 
didnt cause physical damage. I dont know the nature of the roots that entered or whether 
they could have entered the pipe from elsewhere. I think the repairs carried out were 
preventative to stop the roots building up in the future enough to break the pipes. 
So I dont think the clearing the blockage cover in the policy applied because the pipe didnt 
need to be broken to clear it. And I dont think the accidental damage cover applied because 
the works were remedial or preventative rather than required to mend any physical damage 
which hasnt been shown to have happened.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman