DRN-2777036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to make a direct 
debit payment. 
What happened
In October 2019 an annual direct debit for a professional body (N) in Mrs Cs name was paid 
from her account. 
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C opened a new joint account and switched their payments to 
it. Halifax says the direct debit instruction for N was moved to the new joint account. 
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs C complained that there were problems with the direct debits and 
automatic payments that shouldve been moved to their new joint account. Halifax 
apologised and paid Mr and Mrs C £100. 
In October 2020 Mrs C received notification from N that Halifax had cancelled the direct 
debit instruction which meant her membership fee wasnt collected. Mrs C was able to 
resolve the situation with N. 
Mr and Mrs C complained and Halifax responded in February 2021. Halifax said it couldnt 
find any evidence that N had attempted to collect a direct debit from Mr and Mrs Cs account 
in October 2020. Halifax also confirmed there were no blocks in place that wouldve 
prevented the direct debit being collected. 
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Halifax had dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr and Mrs C asked to appeal, so their complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs Cs direct debit payment to N wasnt made in October 2020 as required. 
And I can understand why Mr and Mrs C feel frustrated, given a history of problems theyve 
experienced in relation to direct debits on their joint account. But, in this case, Im only 
looking at the payment N attempted to collect in October 2020 and whether Halifax made 
any errors. 
Mr and Mrs C have confirmed the membership fee was made up which meant there was no 
lapse in any professional memberships. Im pleased the situation didnt impact Mrs C further. 
I recently asked both parties to send us additional information. Mr and Mrs C have forwarded 
an email from N that says it couldnt collect the direct debit payment because the instruction 
had been cancelled by their bank. But, Halifax has also sent us systems information that it 
feels verifies its claim that no payment request was received. 
Halifax has sent evidence of the direct debit instructions that were moved to the new account 
in January 2020. The list includes Ns direct debit and I can see it was brought over from Mrs 
Cs sole account when the joint account was opened. Halifax has also sent systems 
evidence to show there were no blocks or issues in place that wouldve prevented Ns direct 
debit being collected. The statements also show direct debits were being collected 
throughout October 2020 which adds weight to Halifaxs claim there was nothing preventing 
the direct debit going through. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C will find my decision frustrating as its clear the direct debit wasnt 
collected as expected. But, I havent seen anything that shows Halifax made a mistake, 
declined the payment or caused it to fail. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have been given 
contrary information from N and may feel like theyre caught between two large 
organisations, but I can only look at Halifaxs actions. And, as Ive said above, the 
information Ive seen doesnt show an error was made. 
Even if I were to agree Halifax had made an error, Id still need to be satisfied the issue had 
caused an unreasonable level of trouble and upset to make an award on that basis. And, 
whilst frustrating, Mrs C appears to have been able to make up the payment with N in a short 
period of time which meant there was no lapse in her professional membership. I understand 
a new direct debit instruction is now in place. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but as I havent found Halifax made a mistake and Im 
satisfied it dealt with their complaint about the direct debit payment to N fairly, Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman