DRN-1696004
 
The complaint
Mr V says The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr V bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case.
Ive concluded that Mr V's PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr V doesn't consider RBS gave him a proper choice about buying the policy. I've 
noted everything Mr V has said about the way in which the PPI was presented on the 
credit card application form. But having considered the content of the form, I'm 
satisfied that the optional nature of the policy was clear enough. Mr V had to actively 
tick to accept the policy, and I'm not persuaded that the application form wording 
meant there was any obligation for him to do so. 
Mr V considers the wording on the credit card application form was a 
recommendation to take the PPI. I accept that the PPI section of the form said 'We 
strongly recommend you take out this cover.'  But if RBS had been recommending 
the PPI to Mr V, I would've expected to see it provide personal advice tailored to his 
particular circumstances. That wasn't the case here, so I'm not persuaded that RBS 
recommended the PPI to Mr V. 
But even if RBS had recommended the policy to Mr V, it doesn't look like it was 
unsuitable for him, based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr V 
says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he was off work sick. But the 
policy would've paid out in addition to his employer benefits and would've meant he 
could use those benefits to cover other expenses. So I think Mr V would've had some 
use for the policy, despite his existing arrangements.  
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. Mr V says he thinks it's unlikely RBS provided any information 
about the PPI at all. He's also told us he had a medical condition which means he may not have been covered by the policy if he was off work in connection with that 
condition. I accept it's unlikely that RBS pointed that out to Mr V when the policy was 
sold. But even if RBS had pointed out the exclusion to Mr V, on balance I think its 
unlikely it would've changed his decision to buy the cover. That's because I think Mr 
V would've thought the likelihood of him being off work for more than thirty days (the 
waiting time before the policy would pay out) in connection with his condition to be 
low. The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr V about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr V, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
what the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr V any extra interest he paid because of 
that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr V the difference between 
what Mr V owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr V 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr V can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr V any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman