DRN-2746638
The complaint
Mrs S says Activtrades Plc (AP) denied her best execution in the course of its margin stop 
out closure of her short USD/TRY trade (the trade) on 26 August 2019. She says the trade 
was closed at an unrealistic price based on an unrealistic spread and that it would not have 
been closed but for these reasons. She seeks compensation for the resulting loss.
What happened
AP disputes the complaint. It summarised the following in its submissions to this service:
The trade was opened at the price of 5.76297. Due to the state of the account and 
because it was a short trade the stop out was triggered, and closed the trade, when 
the buy price increased and reached 6.10843 (which is the price the trade was 
closed at). This price movement caused the account margin to fall below the 50% 
level, hence the stop out.
In its response to her complaint it proved to Mrs S that the closing price was 
consistent with pricing from Bloomberg, an independent source, at the relevant time. 
It shared tick pricing evidence from Bloomberg with this service, showing that at 
00:27:48 on 26 August 2019 (the same time and date Mrs S position was closed) the 
lowest buy price was 6.2855, which was more than the closing price for her trade.
It also proved to Mrs S that its spread was consistent with, and actually less than, 
Bloombergs spread at the relevant time. Its spread was 6.0544/6.10843 (54 pips) 
whilst the tick pricing evidence from Bloomberg showed that its smallest spread at 
the relevant time was 5.9645/6.2855 (321 pips).
It acted in line with its order/best execution policy.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, concluded that it should not be upheld 
and agreed with the points made by AP (based on available pricing evidence). In addition, 
she noted arguments, made by Mrs S, that AP should have suspended trading in the 
USD/TRY pair at the time as it had done so previously  during a Turkish election  when 
there was comparable volatility; and that another broker quoted a different price/spread for 
the pair at the time. The investigator said suspension of trading was at APs discretion and 
evidence shows it was able to provide reliable pricing (reflecting the underlying market); and, 
with regards to comparison with another broker, that AP also had discretion, as brokers do, 
to set its own prices.
Mrs S disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman. She 
maintained that APs spread at the time her trade was closed was excessive and against 
customers interests, and said that in the absence of evidence of AP taking her trade to the 
market in order to close it, the implication that arises is that it had an interest in widening the 
spread or hunting down the stop out in order for her to lose more from the trade (so it wins 
more).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons she gave.
The Bloomberg pricing evidence defeats Mrs S arguments about APs closing price for the 
trade being unrealistic and about the spread on which that price was based also being 
unrealistic. Bloomberg is widely regarded as an independent and reliable source of pricing in 
financial markets and the prices it had for the USD/TRY pair at the exact date and time the 
trade was closed  as stated above  shows that it had a higher buy price for the pair than 
APs (which, if applied to the trade, would have worsened Mrs S loss) and a notably larger 
spread than APs. Bloombergs pricing and spread reflected the underlying USD/TRY market 
at the time and APs prices and spread (at the time) were consistent with and within both. I 
have not seen evidence to call this conclusion into question.
APs closing price for the trade and the spread on which that price was based were not 
unrealistic. There appears to be no dispute about the legitimacy of the margin stop out that 
was applied but, for the sake of completeness, I observe that operation of a margin stop out 
in a leverage based retail trading account like Ms S in 2019 would have been consistent 
with the European Securities and Markets Authoritys margin close out rule from 2018 
(renewed in 2019).
With regards to any suggestion that AP should have suspended trading at the time the trade 
was closed, I consider that this too is defeated by the Bloomberg pricing evidence  and by 
evidence of APs ability to offer prices at the time. Both establish that there were reliable 
prices available for the USD/TRY pair at the time, in which case there would have been no 
reasonable cause for a suspension of trading.
Incorporated into the client agreement for Mrs S account was APs Order Execution Policy 
(OEP). The following is stated within the OEP:
We [AP] are the only execution venue to clients trades as we act as principal and deal on 
our own account. We perform our due diligence and choose Liquidity Providers (LPs) that 
feed two way  prices at which we execute trades 
Every effort will be made to maintain competitive spreads. However, we reserve the right to 
change the spreads at any time, in any market, for any reason. Example of this may be: lack 
of liquidity or unusually volatile market conditions.
Based on the above, AP  as principal and sole execution venue  was not obliged or 
expected to present the trade to the market and it did no wrong in applying its prices to the 
trade. It also did no wrong in manging the relevant spread and, as established above, that 
spread was not inconsistent with the underlying market.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman