DRN-2201923
The complaint
Mrs L is being represented by a CMC. They complained to Nationwide Building Society 
that she was badly advised to invest in a Guaranteed Equity Bond.
What happened
In August 1999 Mrs L met with a Nationwide financial adviser and was advised to invest
£5,000 in a Nationwide World Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB). The policy matured 
in August 2005 and returned the original capital of £5,000.
The adviser completed a financial review. This recorded Mrs L approached the adviser 
after her son received financial advice and requested a review of her own. The report said 
Mrs L was offered a joint financial review with her husband but refused this. She confirmed 
she understood that not including his details or circumstances within the review could 
affect the advice she received.
Mrs L did not hold a Nationwide bank account. However, the review confirms she had 
liquid assets totalling £50,623. Mrs L confirmed her husband was responsible for the 
household living expenses including the mortgage payments of £350 a month, her 
commitments totalled £300 a month. Mrs L signed both the financial review and the fact 
find confirming them to be an accurate reflection of her discussion.
During her meeting with the adviser, Mrs L confirmed her main priority was to invest 
£5,000 for growth over the medium period. The funds invested were taken from the 
£33,640 in her bank account. Her important priority was to guarantee her capital. Her 
attitude to risk was deemed as Prudent. This was described as:
You are willing to accept a small degree of risk, looking for a greater potential for growth, 
but with an element of safeguard on capital return in the medium to long term.
The fact find also shows alternative products were considered before Mrs L decided to 
go with the GEB.
The CMC said Mrs L was advised to invest at a time when she could not afford to take 
such a risk; her husband had recently been made redundant and his redundancy payment 
had been deposited into her account. They also said she was advised to invest too much 
money as she depended on Mr Ls income, and they had an outstanding mortgage 
balance of
£35,000.
The CMC also said Mrs L was advised to take too much risk as a novice investor and 
should have been recommended a five-year fixed rate bond at a rate of 6.5%. They said the 
Bank of England base rate was 6% at the time of sale and presented less risk, plus it was 
an easier product to track. Finally, they said the GEB was too complicated a product for Mrs 
L to understand, the illustrations used to demonstrate how the product worked were too 
complex to follow.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She thought Mrs Ls objectives were 
met as her priority was to protect her capital and she was willing to risk growth on capital. 
Of the £50,623 that Mrs L had available to invest she only invested £5,000 in the GEB. 
This represented less than 10% of her liquid assets. And as a novice investor, this seemed 
to be an acceptable amount for her to speculate with.
Mrs L wanted her capital to grow and had rejected National Savings as an option because 
she was looking for a higher return on her capital than they would provide. Mrs L invested a 
further £3,000 in a cash ISA. Our investigator did not think Mrs L was advised to invest too 
much too soon. Mrs L was also aware it had an annual growth limit of 16.66% and the 
illustration in the key features document gave a clear indication of how the investment 
would be calculated on maturity.
Our investigator also thought Mrs L understood the product after the adviser went 
through the illustration with her.
The CMC said a five-year fixed rate bond at 6.5% was available at the time. However, 
Nationwide showed this only had a one-year term. The fixed rate bond did not meet Mrs Ls 
requirement for a five-year investment. Our investigator did not think the complaint should 
be upheld.
The CMC did not agree with our investigator. They said:
Mr Ls redundancy payment had been paid into Mrs Ls account. After allowing 
for the outstanding mortgage of about £35,000 the investment was a large part 
of the available assets.
Both Mrs L and her son had been clients of the same adviser. It was unlikely the 
adviser did not know about Mr Ls redundancy, which was the source of the 
funds invested.
Although the GEB had a maximum growth rate of 16% a year, the illustration 
shows at the highest growth rate a net return of 5.25% a year would be achieved.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should not 
be upheld for the same reasons.
Nationwide gave advice to Mrs L. The funds were in her account, although I accept that 
they were from Mr Ls redundancy payment. Paying off the mortgage was one option 
available to Mr and Mrs L. However, they could still do this with the funds they had after the 
investment in the GEB.
The GEB provided capital protection with an opportunity for growth. The adviser 
explained how the product worked and only recommended a small amount of the 
available capital should be invested. In my view, this was not unsuitable.
The returns from the GEB were not guaranteed, although the capital was guaranteed at 
the end of the five-year term. Whilst the illustration showed the likely rates of return, there 
was the prospect Mrs L would receive a greater return. I am not satisfied the product was unsuitable for her.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman