DRN-2984821
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under its business interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by 
Covid-19. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. T claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Aviva said Ts claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said the core business interruption 
cover and a number of the policy extensions required there to have been damage to 
property and Covid-19 didnt cause damage. They added that, although the policy included 
an extension for specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the 
policy. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, T brought its complaint to our service. It said its policy had 
previously covered diseases, but this had been removed. It also referred to the Supreme 
Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case, as it thought this meant 
its claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
T asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy didnt make it clear that it only 
covered certain types of diseases and it had removed the cover for diseases at the renewal 
in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
T. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive seen a copy of the policy that was in force at the time of 
Ts claim and have looked at it carefully to see if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining its claim. Whilst Ive reviewed 
the policy in full, Ive only addressed those sections most relevant to Ts circumstances 
below.
Damage
The core business interruption cover under the policy says:
We will cover You for loss of Income resulting from Damage to property used by 
You at Your Premises for the purposes of Your Business 
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Physical loss, destruction or damage
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property used at Ts 
premises so I dont think this provides cover for the circumstances of its claim.
Prevention of access and loss of attraction
The cover under the policy is extended by various extensions. The extension for prevention 
of access covers loss as a result of:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises.
The extension for loss of attraction covers loss as a result of:
Damage to Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of Your 
Premises which causes a loss of Income directly due to a reduction in customers 
visiting the area.
For either of these to provide cover Ts loss of income would need to arise from damage to 
property within one mile of the boundary of its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused damage to property in Ts vicinity which either prevented or restricted 
access or which reduced the number of customers visiting the area, so Im afraid these 
extensions dont provide cover either. 
Specified disease
The relevant part of this extension covers loss as a result of:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the 
boundary of Your Premises
The policy defines a specified disease as any of the diseases listed in the policy. The list of 
diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy 
was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies 
on the market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which 
cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ts policy 
is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is 
nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ts claim.
Other issues
I understand T thinks cover for diseases was removed when it renewed its policy in August 
2020. However, the schedules Ive seen for 2019 and 2020 both say that disease is 
covered within the business interruption section of the policy. Also, the policies Ive seen for 
2019 and 2020 both provide cover for a specified list of diseases. So, I havent seen enough to persuade me that there have been changes to Ts cover which would impact the outcome 
of its claim.  
T has referred to the FCAs test case but whether the claim should be paid still depends on 
the specific wording within the policy. Im afraid in this case the Supreme Court judgment 
doesnt mean Aviva needs to pay Ts claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman