DRN-1991031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the service they received when they applied for a mortgage 
with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
They say Halifax lost some of the paperwork, and then wouldnt accept Mrs Hs payslips. As 
a result, Mr and Mrs H cancelled the application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Halifax, and they wanted to move house.
They received a Mortgage Promise on 2 September 2019, and the full application was keyed 
onto Halifaxs system on 5 September.
Mr and Mrs H opted to send the documents that Halifax needed by post, rather than using 
the online portal to upload them.
Halifax contacted Mr and Mrs H on 10 September to say it had received some of the 
information needed but was outstanding Mrs Hs proof of income. It also said it needed the 
bank statement to be resubmitted unredacted, as Mr and Mrs H had blanked out most of the 
information. Mr and Mrs H said everything had been sent together, and again Halifax offered 
a link so Mr and Mrs H could upload the documents rather than posting them.
Halifax contacted Mr and Mrs H again on 12 September to say it had now received the 
information but it couldnt use Mrs Hs payslips as they were as they didnt show her name 
on them. It said it needed the front page that would have come with the payslips which would 
show her full name. Mr and Mrs H said it was too much hassle and they were thinking of 
withdrawing the application, and they did so that same day.
A complaint was made to Halifax on 24 October 2019. Mr and Mrs H said theyd spent a lot 
of money on searches, hours on the phone and had lost their dream home. Halifax didnt 
uphold the complaint saying it took place over just nine days, and all it needed was the front 
cover page for Mrs Hs payslips.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree so its been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint.
I dont know what happened with the original paperwork, and I have no way of knowing for 
sure. Mr and Mrs H say it was all sent in one envelope, so as Halifax received some of the 
documents, it must have received all of them. Whereas Halifax says it didnt receive them all. 
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs H are the ones bringing the 
complaint against Halifax, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Hs version needs to be more 
likely than Halifaxs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say 
Mr and Mrs Hs version (in that all the documents were provided in the envelope) is anything 
more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold this part of their complaint. In 
any event this complaint doesnt turn on that as within two days Halifax received the 
information, so it didnt cause any significant delay.
I understand Mr and Mrs H are frustrated about what happened, and about Halifaxs policy 
on needing the customers name on their payslips. I recognise how strongly they feel about 
this, but I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably in applying its policy as it did. 
Businesses make a commercial decision about the types of income proof they are willing to 
accept. Ive seen Halifaxs policy on this, and Im satisfied that is whats required. Its 
irrelevant how small the mortgage is, how long Mrs H has worked for her employer or how 
long Mr and Mrs H had been Halifaxs customers. All that is relevant is that Halifaxs policy 
requires a customers payslips to have the customers name on them, and Mrs Hs didnt. 
Halifax offered a simple resolution in that all Mr and Mrs H needed to do was to provide the 
front cover of the payslip, as that would show Mrs Hs name, but instead Mr and Mrs H 
chose to cancel the application.
As Halifax didnt do anything wrong in following its lending policy, I dont award any 
compensation for the time and trouble Mr and Mrs H were put to in collecting the information 
Halifax needed, or for the time and trouble they were put to in complaining about this. If a 
person wants to apply for a mortgage they need to provide the information required by the 
lender, thats normal and not something for which compensation is due for if the application 
isnt progressed.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman