DRN-3029017
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2010. Mr W says Santander UK Plc  mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because, firstly Mr Ws mortgage had already been in place for 
around five years before he took out PPI. So I dont think he would have been under the 
impression that he had to have PPI at this stage. 
And secondly, while Santander no longer has a recording of the telephone sale (not 
surprising given the passage of time) it has provided an example call script, which it says 
represents what would have been discussed with Mr W. Looking at this I can see the 
representative was prompted to explain to a customer that PPI was optional and a 
separate product from the mortgage itself.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything to persuade me that 
the phone call with Mr W was very different from how Santander say it would have gone, 
I think Mr W chose to take out PPI and likely did so without undue pressure.
Mr W says Santander advised him to take out PPI. But the evidence from the time shows 
this was a non-advised sale and Mr W was told this was the case. So Santander didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mr W. This means it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
While the call script suggests Mr W was given enough information to have a broad 
understanding of the nature of the cover, I accept given the lack of a call recording that 
its possible the information Santander gave Mr W overall about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W  for example 
he was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about his employment or occupation 
which would have made it difficult for him to claim. 
Although Mr W says he had a medical condition around three years prior to taking out 
the policy, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused him to change his mind about taking it out. I say this because Mr W 
hasnt said or implied that his condition was ongoing or that it caused him difficulties after 
the treatment and advice he said he had at the time. So given this and the fact that the 
policy covered existing conditions after the first 12 months of cover, I think Mr W would 
have still thought the policy worked for him. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems and it also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr W would have declined the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman