DRN-3971794
The complaint
Mr C complains that SPF Private Clients Limited (SPF) didnt act in his best interests after 
they recommended changes in his investment portfolio.
What happened
Mr C had been a client of SPF since 2011, receiving advice on his pension and ISA 
investments. 
In July 2018, SPFs annual report recommended changes to Mr Cs portfolio as his attitude 
to risk had changed from balanced to cautious. The proposed changes included selling 
Mr Cs holding in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF). Mr C and SPF exchanged 
various emails about the report but Mr C never authorised the changes and so he remained 
invested in his existing portfolio.
SPF sent their next annual report to Mr C on 22 May 2019. It made a number of 
recommendations for changes in Mr Cs portfolio, including the sale of his holding in the 
WEIF. On 24 June 2019 the SPF adviser chased Mr C for a response to the report and the 
following day Mr C gave his agreement to the recommendations. However, the WEIF had 
been suspended on 3 June 2019 and Mr Cs holding could not be redeemed.
Mr C complains that SPF failed in their duty of care toward him and didnt act in his best 
interests. He thinks SPF should compensate him for the losses he incurred by remaining 
invested in the WEIF. Mr C says:
Although he didnt agree to change his risk profile in 2018, SPF could have encouraged 
him to sell his WEIF holding in view of its performance and the underlying issues which 
later led to its suspension. SPFs 2018 report was unclear, and the adviser should have 
called him rather than interpreting his non-response as a decision not to accept the 
advice. 
The 2019 report was clear, but SPF should have called him to ensure the changes to his 
portfolio were made in time.
After their advice was not implemented in 2018, SPF should have stopped charging him 
their management fee.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think SPF had done anything wrong. 
He said:
The recommendations SPF made to Mr C in 2018 were clear and Mr C would have been 
aware that they involved investing in new funds. It was reasonable for SPF to interpret 
an email from Mr C in September 2018 as an instruction to leave his portfolio as it was 
until the next annual report. It would not be fair to say that SPF should have called Mr C 
later in 2018, particularly given that their previous communications had generally been 
by email.
SPF shared with Mr C as much as it knew about the WEIF in 2018. Mr C chose not to 
accept the recommendations SPF made and it would not be reasonable to say they 
should have done anything more at that stage.
Mr C didnt authorise SPF to act on the recommendations in their 2019 annual report 
until after the suspension of the WEIF. It would not be reasonable to say that SPF should 
have called him between their report being sent and the WEIFs suspension less than 
two weeks later. The suspension of the WEIF was outside their control and it would not 
be reasonable to say they ought to have known more.
It was reasonable for SPF to continue taking management fees from Mr C. They 
provided advice to Mr C in line with the terms of their agreement and it was for Mr C to 
decide if he wanted to accept it.  
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2018 report
SPFs report in July 2018 said that Mr Cs collective retirement account (CRA) pension 
remained suitable for his needs. The report went on to say that Mr Cs investment risk profile 
had changed from balanced to cautious and so SPF recommended that he realign his 
portfolio of funds to reflect that. The report listed Mr Cs current portfolio, with the fund 
names and weighting, and the revised portfolio that SPF were recommending. The proposed 
changes included selling Mr Cs WEIF holding which made up about 3% of his portfolio. 
In both the summary section of the report and his covering email the SPF adviser said that 
Mr C should let him know if he was happy to proceed with the fund switches. Mr C and the 
adviser then exchanged various emails about the report. In an email on 11 September 2018 
Mr C told SPFs adviser that he wanted to leave his risk rating where it was rather than set it 
more cautiously. So, no changes were made to Mr Cs portfolio.
Mr Cs complaint is not that SPFs advice was unsuitable, but that their report was unclear 
and that the adviser should have done more to encourage him to sell his WEIF holding. 
Having looked carefully at the annual report and the emails that Mr C and SPF subsequently 
exchanged, I think SPFs advice and the information they provided was sufficiently clear. 
Having received Mr Cs email of 11 September 2018, I think it was reasonable for SPF to 
conclude that he didnt want to make the recommended changes and to take no further 
action. I dont think it would be fair to say that SPF should have called Mr C at that point, 
or earlier in their exchanges about the annual report. There was a clear pattern of 
communication being by email and it seems that may well have been Mr Cs preference. 
 
2019 report
SPFs next annual report was sent to Mr C on 22 May 2019. It said Mr Cs CRA pension 
remained suitable for his needs. The adviser said that with the slight reduction in Mr Cs 
attitude to risk, he was recommending some fund switches to realign the portfolio to the 
desired asset allocation. He recommended that Mr Cs holdings in nine funds, including the 
WEIF which represented about 2.5% of his portfolio, be sold and the proceeds invested in nine different funds. The adviser said that Mr C should let him know if he was happy to 
proceed with the fund switches. 
On 24 June 2019, the SPF adviser emailed Mr C to say he hadnt heard back about whether 
he was happy to proceed with the fund switches recommended in the report. Mr C replied 
the following day and said, Please make the switches you think are appropriate and 
commensurate with my objectives. 
Mr C has said that the annual report was clear, but that SPF should have called him to 
ensure the changes to his portfolio were made more quickly.
Ive seen copies of various emails between Mr C and the adviser between 22 May and 
24 June 2019. On 30 May 2019, Mr C told the adviser that he had gone through the report in 
some detail but wanted to correct some information. On 4 June 2019 the adviser offered a 
phone call with Mr C but said his recommendations were still valid and he needed Mr C to 
confirm if he wanted him to action the switches.
From the email exchanges, I think its clear that Mr C was giving careful consideration to the 
annual report. The adviser reminded him on 4 June 2019 that he needed to authorise the 
fund switches and I dont think it was unreasonable for him to give Mr C time to decide. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to say that SPF should have done more before they received 
Mr Cs email on 24 June 2019.
SPF have said that their recommendations to sell Mr Cs WEIF holding were due to changes 
in his attitude to risk and the performance of the fund. And I note that Mr C has said he is not 
alleging that SPF were aware of the imminent suspension and liquidation of the fund. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think I can fairly say that SPF should have done any 
more in relation to their recommendations to Mr C and his investment in the WEIF. And I 
dont think it would be fair to hold SPF responsible for any losses Mr C incurred because his 
holding in the WEIF was not sold prior to its suspension on 3 June 2019.
Fees
Ive also considered Mr Cs complaint about SPFs management fees. Mr C received annual 
reviews of his investments, including recommendations for change, as described in his client 
agreement with SPF. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for SPF to charge the 
management fee set out in that agreement and the separate fees agreement. The fact that 
Mr C decided not to go ahead with the recommendations made in 2018 did not mean that 
SPF were not entitled to charge the management fee. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr C, but I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against SPF Private Clients Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman