DRN-3288472
The complaint
P a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed its account. 
P also complains that Barclays didnt return all the money that belonged to P when it closed 
its account. 
Ps complaint has been brought to our service by its director, Mr L.
What happened
P had a business account with Barclays. In late 2019 two payments totalling just over 
£23,000 were paid into Ps account. Mr L moved both payments into his personal account. 
Barclays blocked Ps account and asked Mr L about the payments. Mr L told Barclays that 
the payments were from customer, who I will refer to as V, that was paying P for investment 
insurance. And he provided screenshots of conversations between V and P to support his 
explanation.  
Barclays looked at the information Mr L provided. And asked him why hed moved the 
money into his personal account with the reference refund. Mr L said the business deal with 
V had fallen through so he had to organise a refund and due to the block on Ps account had 
used his personal account to process it. Following this Barclays received notification from 
the sending banks that the two payments (£12,013.63 and £11,738.00) paid into Ps account 
were the result of fraud. Barclays returned the funds back to source and after reviewing what 
happened decided to close Ps account immediately. 
Mr L complained to Barclays. He said the bank shouldnt have returned the money and the 
bank owed P around £17,000, which included the £12,013.63 payment and just over a 
£5,000 discrepancy in Ps closing balance. Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
had acted in line with the terms of Ps account when it returned the money to source and 
closed Ps account. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr L brought Ps complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators considered it. Mr L says P missed out on business opportunities by 
Barclays blocking its account  and shouldnt have sent the money back without Ps 
permission. He also says P is out of pocket and the bank owes P around £17,000. He wants 
Barclays to refund P. And pay compensation of around £20,000 - £30,000 for loss of profits 
on business opportunities.
The investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it returned the money paid 
into Ps account in late 2019 back to source. And that the bank was entitled to review Ps 
account and had done so in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. She set out the 
transactions on Ps account and explained that the bank didnt owe P any money. And in 
fact, it had returned P too much as a closing balance. So, she didnt recommend the bank 
should refund P the money it had returned to source. She also said that the bank had treated 
P fairly when it closed its account. 
Barclays agreed with the investigators view and said it wasnt going to pursue P to repay the 
overpayment. Mr L disagreed with the investigators view. He says the bank have made a 
mistake when it sent the £12,013.63 payment back to source. So, he wants the money 
refunded along with the money he says is missing from Ps closing balance.  
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Barclays has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and 
ask customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Ps account also permit Barclays to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for 
Barclays to block Ps account. Ps account had received over £20,000 of fraudulent funds so I 
can understand the banks concerns and why it wanted to investigate. Barclays has explained 
that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so 
Barclays were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. Thats in line with what most 
banks would do in the same situation, and it enabled Barclays to consider how best to react to 
the report it had received from the other banks about the money paid into Ps account. And it 
gave Barclays time to speak to Mr L about the activity on Ps account. So, whilst I accept, the 
banks actions caused P inconvenience when it decided to block its account and asked Mr L to 
provide information, I cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated P unfairly in doing so. 
So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award P compensation since I dont find the bank 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he says Barclays havent returned all the money that 
was paid into Ps account. And have returned it to source  in other words sent the money 
back to where it came from. Mr L says that the money belongs to P and he wants it returned. 
Ive looked at whether Barclays treated P fairly when it returned the money. And Im afraid I 
cant add much to what the investigator has already said. Barclays was told by other banks 
that their customers were the victim of a scam and provided Barclays with information to 
show P wasnt entitled to the two payments paid into its account in late 2019. Barclays gave 
Mr L an opportunity to provide information about his entitlement to the funds. Having looked 
at this information, Im satisfied that P received fraudulent funds into its account. And that 
Barclays didnt do anything wrong when it returned the fraudulent funds back to source so 
that it could be returned to the victims of the scam.  
However, when Barclays returned the funds back to source it did make a mistake. But 
contrary to what Mr L believes, P didnt suffer any detriment  in fact P benefitted. I say this 
because as the investigator has already explained to Mr L, when Barclays returned the 
£11,738 payment it only returned a proportion of the money (£5,088), which meant P had 
£6,650 more when Barclays closed its account. So, P isnt missing any money. And as Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied that P wasnt entitled to this money in the first place. So, Im not 
going to ask Barclays to refund P the £5,088.I then turn to the banks decision to close Ps account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing P with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Ps account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that 
wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. So, whilst I accept the banks actions caused P inconvenience, I cant 
say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed its account without notice. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr Ls assurances about how hed use the account in future, Im not going to ask 
Barclays to reopen Ps account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman