DRN-3355398
The complaint
Ms D complains about a loan provided to her by Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money, (118 118), which she says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Ms Ds behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Ms D.
What happened
Ms D entered into an agreement with 118 118 for a loan of £3,000 in March 2019. The loan 
was repayable by 12 monthly repayments of £306.73. The interest rate was 37.7%, (44.9% 
APR). If Ms D made each payment when it was due, shed pay £3,680.76 in total. The loan 
was sold to a third party in April 2020.        
   .
Ms D says that 118 118 didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting
credit or assess signs of her over indebtedness. The unaffordable high cost loan worsened a 
financial situation which was already poor. Ms D said she felt the loan had put her further 
into debt. She somehow managed to fall behind with a lot of creditors.
In its final response letter, 118 118 said that it was satisfied that it had acted correctly in 
approving the loan application. It had asked Ms D questions around her income and 
expenditure, the reason for the loan and her employment details. It had used industry 
standard verification checks to validate the information provided by Ms D. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the checks that 
118 118 did were reasonable or proportionate. She thought that 118 118 Money failed to 
scrutinise the evidence it gathered, and she believed 118 118 didnt make a fair lending 
decision. 
118 118 disagreed and responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that its 
affordability assessment confirmed that Ms D did have enough disposable income to pay it 
and that she would continue to have disposable income for the rest of the month. 118 118 
believed that Ms D earned the monthly income of £1,203 stated on her application. It 
believed Ms D paid out a total of £624.50 a month for all her outgoings and credit 
commitments. This would make the loan affordable as Ms Ds income of £1203 minus her 
outgoings of £624.50 would leave her with £578.50 disposable income. Its loan repayment 
would be £306.73. So, Ms D would be left with £271.77 disposable income. 118 118 said 
that Ms D had confirmed that £306.73  was affordable to repay on a monthly basis. It also 
said that all accounts on its credit checks were paid well. With regard to the historic default, 
whilst it agreed that this was shown on the credit file, it said Ms D had made payments 
towards the account in order to reduce the balance over time.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms D
and to 118 118 on 7 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when 118 118 lent to Ms D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
118 118 was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Ms Ds creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that       
118 118 had to consider both the risk to it that Ms D wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Ms D of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, 118 118 had to consider Ms Ds ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ds complaint, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did 118 118 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing    
Ms Ds loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did 118 118 make a fair lending decision?
Did 118 118 carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, 118 118 gathered some information from Ms D about her income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check. Ms D told 118 118 she was living with her parents and paid them £80 rent. Her net monthly 
income was £1,203 and her other outgoings were £300.75.  
118 118 assessed Ms Ds monthly credit commitments as £243.75. 
Id reviewed 118 118s credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Ms D had 10 active 
credit accounts with a £5,301 total balance. There were no payday loans or other loans. The 
accounts consisted of credit cards, mail order accounts and a current account with no 
overdraft.
There was a credit card account which had been defaulted in 2014 with a default balance of 
£1,429. A debt collecting agency was collecting payments towards the debt and I could see 
that it had reduced to £424. So, Ms D appeared to be in the course of clearing this debt and I 
didnt think it was unreasonable for 118 118 to be more interested in Ms Ds more recent 
credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the loan was affordable. 
Ms Ds most recently opened account, a credit card, had been taken out eight months prior 
to the loan application. The checks showed that this had a balance of £216 with a £1,000 
credit limit. I could see that this had been well managed with a £881 balance in           
January 2019 being repaid by a £875 payment in February 2019. 
More worryingly, I could see there were three accounts on which payments had been missed 
within the seven months prior to the loan application. On one account payments had been 
missed four months and seven months prior to the loan application. But the most recent 
balance on the credit checks was shown as £60 with a £550 credit limit. On a second 
account, a payment had been missed two months prior to the loan application. The most 
recent balance was £509 with a £1,600 credit limit and Ms D had cleared a large balance in 
January 2019 with a payment of £1,582. On a third account, two payments had been missed 
around six and seven months prior to the loan application, but the balance was £427 with a 
£950 credit limit. There were two other accounts with balances a little under £2,000, 
although these appeared to have been paid satisfactorily. 
Altogether, although most of Ms Ds accounts were well within their respective credit limits 
and she appeared to be repaying large amounts when the balances became too big, I 
thought Ms Ds relatively recent missed payments on three of her accounts ought to have 
reasonably caused 118 118 concerns as it appeared that Ms Ds finances might be strained. 
Overall, I wasnt satisfied that 118 118s checks went far enough here. I thought there was 
enough from what it had found on its checks for it to have taken its checks further. Given the  
cost of the credit, and what 118 118 saw or ought to have seen in its checks, I didnt think its 
checks were sufficient to get a clear picture of Ms Ds finances at the time and for 118 118 to 
be confident that Ms D could repay the loan without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without failing to make any contractual or statutory payments and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. 
So overall, I didnt think the checks 118 118 carried out on this occasion were reasonable 
and proportionate. Ms D was entering into an expensive loan and her finances in its credit 
check were showing signs of possible strain. 118 118 was required to establish whether    
Ms D could make her loan repayments without experiencing adverse consequences and not 
just to ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements 
from Ms D, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for 
more information about her existing credit commitments. 118 118 didnt say that it took steps 
to do this.Although I didnt think that 118 118 carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
the loan, that in itself didn't mean that Ms Ds complaint about the loan should succeed. Id 
also need to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
shown 118 118 that Ms D couldn't repay the loan without adverse consequences. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Ms D has provided this Service with some bank statements from around the time of her loan 
application. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that 118 118 should have done. 
But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. 
Id reviewed Ms Ds bank statements. Ms Ds monthly income was higher than shed 
declared with an average monthly amount of £1,315. Overall, I didnt think the bank 
statements showed any obvious evidence that Ms D was facing problems managing her 
finances. In particular, Id noted that Ms D had no short term or any other loans and there 
was no evidence of gambling or returned payments. The bank account appeared to be 
managed satisfactorily with transfers being made from Ms Ds savings account where 
appropriate. In addition, most of Ms Ds spending didnt appear to be on essential living 
costs. And I thought in Ms Ds circumstances it might not have been unreasonable for      
118 118 to have thought that some of Ms Ds discretionary expenditure might cease after 
shed taken out her loan.
Id also taken into account that Ms D told 118 118 that she was living with her parents and 
had no dependents. 
Altogether, I wasnt persuaded that better checks would reasonably have led 118 118 to 
conclude that it shouldnt have lent to Ms D. And I didnt think her finances would have 
appeared under so much pressure that 118 118 should have declined her application.
So, Id thought that while 118 118 could have done more before lending, it was likely to have 
found that Ms Ds circumstances at the time suggested that the loan repayments could be 
made by Ms D without her experiencing adverse consequences. So, I wasnt persuaded that 
118 118 lent irresponsibly on this occasion. 
Id said that I was sorry that this wasnt the outcome Ms D was hoping for. I realised shed be 
disappointed but taking everything together I hadnt seen enough for me to conclude that I 
should uphold her complaint.
So, for the reasons set out above, and subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, Id said that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Ms D hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
118 118 responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Ms D and 118 118 have given me nothing further to consider, I see noreason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman