DRN-3273222
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Ageas 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of Mrs Ls claim and complaint is a vehicle first registered in 2010. Mrs L 
acquired the vehicle in 2018. 
For the year from September 2020, Mrs L had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive 
policy branded with the name of a bank. Ageas was the insurance company responsible for 
dealing with any claims.
In October 2020, an MOT certificate for the vehicle recorded a milage of nearly 125,000.
On 18 June 2021, Mrs L was in the vehicle with her school-age son. Unfortunately, a third 
party damaged Mrs Ls vehicle in an accident. 
Ageas said her vehicle was a total loss. So the policy didnt provide a courtesy vehicle. Mrs L 
Mrs L got a credit hire vehicle.
On about 22 June 2021, the third partys insurer said it would settle Mrs Ls claim. Ageas 
confirmed that to Mrs L on 25 June 2021.
On about 30 June 2021, Ageas valued Mrs Ls vehicle at £3,600.00. Mrs L complained to 
Ageas about that. By a letter dated 30 June 2021, Ageas increased its valuation to 
£4,273.00. 
By a (first) final response dated 5 July 2021, Ageas maintained that valuation and turned 
down Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs L replied on 6 July 2021. She maintained her complaint about the valuation. She also 
complained that Ageas had left her and her son at the side of the road for nearly three hours 
before Ageas recovered her vehicle. She also complained that Ageas hadnt offered a 
courtesy car. She also complained that Ageas had taken about a week to tell her that the 
third partys insurer accepted liability.
By a (second) final response dated 8 July 2021, Ageas turned down Mrs Ls complaints.
Ageas made a payment of £4,273.00.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us in mid-July 2021.
After that, on about 22 July 2021, the credit hire company asked Mrs L to return its vehicle. 
Mrs L contacted Ageas and it arranged a courtesy car for a few more days.
Mrs L bought a replacement vehicle, but she wasnt happy with it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
didnt think that Ageas had acted unfairly when dealing with the insurance claim. The 
investigator was satisfied Ageas had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The way Ageas handled this claim cannot be classed as satisfactory as there were 
too many errors.
She suffered massive inconvenience.
Ageas undervalued her old car. So she could only get an inferior replacement.
This has been a very stressful time and the reason it has been so bad is due to lack 
of communication by Ageas regarding her claim and her complaint. 
Mrs L also made the following points, that Ageas has treated as a further complaint:
Ageas didnt tell her that (on about 22 June 2021) the third partys insurer had 
suggested that Ageas provide a courtesy car. Ageas did not tell her that the third 
partys insurer would be contacting her. 
Ageas didnt tell her about the termination of the first hire vehicle (on about 22 July 
2021).
Ageas didnt communicate properly about the courtesy car.
By a (third) final response dated mid-January 2022, Ageas partially upheld that further   
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the available call recordings.
Recovery of the damaged vehicle 
I dont hold Ageas responsible for the time that elapsed between the accident at about 08:00 
and Ageas first receiving notification of it at about 10.00  on 18 June 2021. So I consider that 
its response was within a reasonable time.
Total Loss
The vehicle was about ten years old. Its mileage was about 125,000. And the accident had 
caused damage to its front. So it was clear from the first notification that the vehicle was a 
total loss.Courtesy Car
The policy terms included the following:
The provision of a courtesy car is subject to availability and the recommended 
repairers terms and conditions. 
The welcome letter listed benefits including the following:
Courtesy car whilst an approved repairer fixes your car (subject to availability)
As Mrs Ls vehicle was a total loss, Ageas wasnt going to instruct a repairer to fix it. So 
Ageas didnt have to provide a courtesy car to Mrs L.
Communication of third party insurers stance on liability
On 21 June 2021, the third partys insurer disputed liability. But later the same day, the third 
partys insurer said it intended to reimburse Ageas without prejudice to liability. 
The third partys insurer contacted Mrs L on 22 June 2021. She called Ageas the same day. 
So on 22 June 2021, Ageas knew that Mrs L had heard the news directly form the third 
partys insurer. Ageas spoke to Mrs L again on 25 June 2021. So I dont consider that Ageas 
fell below a reasonable standard of communication. 
Market Value
We expect an insurer to value a vehicle at the time immediately before the accident or loss. 
We expect an insurer to value a vehicle by reference to the retail values in the  trade guides. 
We are satisfied that these are based on extensive research of likely retail selling prices. The 
guides take into account the make, model, age, mileage, specification and pre-accident 
condition of each vehicle.
We generally find advertisements less reliable as they contain asking prices that are often 
negotiated downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, age, mileage, specification and pre-accident condition of Mrs Ls 
vehicle. For a vehicle like hers in June 2021, Ive seen retail values in the trade guides as 
follows:
CAP  - £3,795.00
Cazana - £4,118.00
Glasss Guide - £4,860.00
The range of those valuations is more than Ageass first valuation of £3,600.00, so I dont 
condone that. But Ageas increased it the same day to £4,273.00. That was within the range 
of the trade guide valuations. So I dont consider that it treated Mrs L unfairly. And I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to increase its valuation.
Issues arising after 8 July 2021The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. We are bound by the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before 
we can investigate a complaint  a consumer must first have made that complaint to the firm 
and waited up to eight weeks for a final response.
It follows that  in Mrs ls case  this final decision cant deal with a complaint that arose for 
the first time after the second final response dated 8 July 2021. In particular, this final 
decision cant deal with the complaint about the return on about 22 July of the credit hire car 
or the subsequent provision of a courtesy car.
Generally
Apart from her complaint that arose for the first time after the second final response dated 8 
July 2021, Ive thought about what Mrs L went through on and after 18 June 2021. Ive seen 
and heard that  after an accident caused by the third party -  Mrs L suffered a shock, upset, 
inconvenience and medical issues. 
But I wouldnt expect Ageas or any motor insurer to indemnify her from all those 
consequences of the accident. And I dont consider that Ageas fell below a reasonable 
standard of service or communication. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to 
pay compensation to Mrs L or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman