DRN-3240860
The complaint
Miss D complains about the amount One Sure Insurance Limited charged her for her 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to One Sure includes its agents.
What happened
Miss D held a commercial vehicle insurance policy arranged by One Sure  a broker  for 
several years.
Miss D had an incident in 2018 and the claim remained open until it was settled in 2020. 
When it was settled  with her not at fault, Miss D expected a refund from One Sure.
But Miss D was contacted by One Sure in February 2021 advising her she owed it more 
money for her policy. It said she owed it £364.22. Miss D paid this to keep the policy live but 
complained to One Sure about it. She didnt think it was fair she was charged more for the 
policy. She thought she should be paying less because her outstanding claim (rated as fault 
while outstanding) was now settled as a non-fault claim.
One Sure looked into Miss Ds complaint and said the reason she owed it money was 
because it refunded her twice in error.
Miss D didnt agree so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Bs complaint be upheld. She understood Miss Ds 
frustration but was satisfied that the additional £364.22 charged was fair.
Miss D didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this wont be the answer Miss D 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
I completely understand why Miss D would be unhappy at being charged more for her policy 
after her claim got re-rated. I understand why she would expect to pay less for the policy. But 
here, I think she has. Overall, shes received a refund/discount of £1,031.62.
Ive seen the evidence which shows Miss D was refunded twice. Its not fair she gets double 
the benefit that shes entitled to. To illustrate whats happened, the following should help.
Miss D was given a refund of £715.42 (£71 by card, £644.42 by cheque)  at this 
point Miss D owed no money to One Sure (as it transpired One Sure owed her a 
further refund which Ill cover below)
One Sure then credited Miss Ds account with it a further £715.42 in error  at his 
point she owed One Sure £715.42, because shed been given this amount twice 
when she should have been only given this refund once
One Sure, as set out above, did owe Miss D a further refund after the policy was re-
rated. It owed her £316.20 which it applied as a further credit on her account.  at 
this point the outstanding balance was £399.22 (£715.42 minus £316.20)
This £399.22 included a £35 admin fee which One Sure waived, leaving the balance 
of £364.22 which Miss D was charged and ultimately paid.
One Sures terms of business says any deductions or discounts may be applied as a credit 
to the account. And ultimately, Miss D has had the benefit of the refund. Im satisfied the 
amount she was charged for this policy was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman