DRN-3972894
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is holding him liable for transactions 
which he says he didnt authorise  and has recorded a marker against him with the fraud 
prevention agency CIFAS.
What happened
Mr M held a current account with Barclays. Around November 2020, Barclays was notified 
that he had been the beneficiary of a fraudulent credit, so placed his account under review. 
Barclays returned the funds which remained in the account from that credit (some had been 
spent) and removed the block. It says it has no records of discussing the review with Mr M at 
the time. But he says it did speak to him  and he was able to explain the expenditure. 
In September 2021, Barclays placed Mr Ms account under review again following another 
report of a fraudulent credit. It ultimately returned the remaining funds and then closed his 
account. It also recorded a marker against him on CIFAS, saying he misused his banking 
facilities.
Mr M says he has found it difficult to get another account due to this marker. He also says he 
checked his account following the review and account closure, and identified a number of 
payments and credits on between November 2020 and September 2021 which he didnt 
authorise or know about. 
After complaining to Barclays about the disputed transactions and CIFAS marker, and being 
unhappy with its response, Mr M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Barclays should remove the marker or refund him for the payments he was 
disputing. She didnt think he could adequately account for how and why the credits had 
been paid into the account, or how the outward payments could have been made without his 
authority. 
Mr M has appealed the investigators findings. He maintains he didnt make the payments. 
He has provided records showing some of his personal information has been compromised 
online. The investigator has explained she doesnt think the data breach accounts for how an 
unauthorised person could have made these payments. As no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
CIFAS has set principles for reporting a marker with them. The key consideration here is 
whether Barclays had reasonable grounds to believe Mr M had been in complicit in (actual or 
attempted) fraud or financial crime. That must be based on clear, relevant, and rigorous 
evidence such that the bank could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
A mere suspicion or concern wouldnt be enough. 
I would also expect Barclays to give Mr M an opportunity to explain the account activity 
which led it to report a marker. As our investigator explained, its not particularly clear 
whether it did so here. But as Mr M is now aware of the account activity, and has had a 
chance to comment on this, I have considered whether the marker meets the expected 
criteria in light of his explanation. 
If Mr M has been dishonest in reporting a fraud claim, that would be sufficient grounds for 
Barclays to report a marker against him. The form he submitted reports a number of credits 
and payments which he says he didnt make and didnt have any involvement with. That 
includes the two credits received into his account, around ten months apart, which the 
senders reported were scam payments. Plus two other credits received, and a mix of card 
payments and bank transfers taken from the account.
It strikes me as unusual that, if a fraudster had the extensive access to Mr Ms banking 
facilities needed to account for this disputed activity, they would have used his account in 
this way. It would mean they allowed him to largely use his account as normal, and only took 
payments occasionally  leaving weeks, and sometimes months, in between. 
There were also large gaps between the credits received. Mr M hasnt been able to account 
for how, or why, fraudulent funds were paid into his account. On several occasions, the 
funds he is disputing that were paid in werent moved on quickly; some were seemingly used 
for general spending over time. Which doesnt fit what you would expect to see if fraudulent 
funds were being paid in, then moved on, by an unauthorised person. 
More widely, it also appears odd to me that Mr M didnt check his Barclays account until it 
was closed  which is why he says he wasnt aware of the credits and payments sooner. 
And Id say this arguably seems stranger following his account being frozen and put under 
review. Id point out that some of the payments Mr M has disputed predate the first review. In 
light of that, I question why he wasnt aware of them and didnt dispute them at that time, 
given he knew the bank had concerns about his account activity  and says he discussed 
this with it at the time. 
A lot of the payments made during the relevant period were card payments and scheduled 
payments (such as standing orders and direct debits), meaning Mr M wouldnt automatically 
have seen the account activity when making them. But there were also some undisputed 
bank transfers and ATM withdrawals made from the account during that time. Some 
undisputed credits were also received  including what appears to be Mr Ms monthly salary. 
Given the account use, it strikes me as unlikely that Mr M wouldnt have been checking his 
account activity at all for such an extended period.  
In the circumstances, I dont find Mr Ms explanation of why he didnt dispute the payments 
until after his account was closed to be plausible. Particularly when considering how the 
payments were made. Barclays mobile banking records show the disputed bank transfers were made from 
devices, and from the same IP addresses, used to make other payments which Mr M hasnt 
disputed. That includes payments which appear to have been made to himself, as the payee 
name is his own. As well as a transfer made very shortly after the fraudulent credit received 
in September 2021. Yet he says he wasnt aware of the credit until several weeks later, 
when his account was closed. 
Mr M says he didnt share any of his login details, or his device, with anyone. So I cant see 
how someone else could have made these payments without him knowledge or authority. 
Furthermore, in order to make all the payments Mr M has disputed, a third party would 
additionally have needed access to his card details  which he also disputes sharing.
As the investigator has said, it appears the card payments may have been made via Mr Ms 
PayPal account. And its possible the card details were saved to that account. But if so, that 
raises the further question of how someone would have been able to access his PayPal 
account in addition to his Barclays account. Im not persuaded weve received a reasonable 
explanation for this. 
The investigator asked Mr M for evidence of what happened on his PayPal account, 
including the messages he says they sent him regarding the payment disputes. Mr M 
provided records of two transactions, but said he wasnt able to retrieve the messages as his 
PayPal account is now closed. But I dont consider the investigators request unreasonable, 
and Ive not seen anything to demonstrate any follow-up contact with PayPal. So I dont have 
the evidence I would reasonably expect from Mr M to support his explanation that his PayPal 
account was breached.
Mr M says a website he used was reported to have suffered a data exposure in 2017  and 
has suggested this might be linked to the payments he is disputing. But the information he 
has provided about this lists the exposed data as his email address, his username for a 
social media platform, and his gender. Those details wouldnt be enough to enable an 
unauthorised person to access Mr Ms banking facilities in this way. And it doesnt seem 
particularly likely that data potentially exposed in 2017 is connected to attempted fraud 
against Mr M so many years later, with no other issues in the interim.
When the facts are unclear or in dispute, I must make my decision based on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened. One factor I need to consider is the credibility and 
persuasiveness of Mr Ms explanation of what happened when weighed against the other 
evidence I have seen. 
Weighing everything up, it seems implausible to me that the account activity Mr M is 
disputing was, as he has claimed, completed by a third party without his knowledge or 
involvement. Ive not received a satisfactory explanation for how an unauthorised person 
would have been able to make these payments over such a long period of time. While fraud 
doesnt always fit a set pattern, it would be incredibly unusual for someone with such wide-
reaching access to Mr Ms banking facilities to use his account in this way, over such a long 
period of time  thereby increasing the risk of detection. I therefore think Barclays has 
sufficient grounds to hold Mr M liable for the outstanding loss stemming from the disputed 
payments. 
For largely the same reasons, I also think Barclays has reasonable grounds to conclude 
Mr M was complicit in the disputed account activity. In light of the information it has provided 
about the payments, I dont think it adds up that Mr M has given us a complete and honest 
explanation of what has happened. On the evidence provided, I think Barclays would have 
enough to confidently report its concerns to the police  as is the expectation for applying a 
CIFAS marker. I appreciate the impact the CIFAS marker has had on Mr M. But having reviewed all the 
evidence, I dont consider it unfair or unreasonable that has Barclays reported it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman