DRN-3600309
The complaint
Mr R complains Equifax Limited didnt properly look into a dispute he raised to explain why 
there was a delay in him being able to open an account. Mr R was also unhappy with 
Equifaxs approach on the phone regarding their subscription service.
What happened
Mr R applied for two currency accounts with a bank, who Ill refer to as H, but was turned 
down with the reason given as negative information held by Equifax. After speaking to 
Equifax, Mr R discovered three missed payments thatd been recorded by another company, 
who Ill refer to as V, which he said wasnt correct.
Mr R contacted V, who then changed the records with Equifax on 24 January 2022  this 
was the same day he first contacted Equifax and V. After this, Mr R reapplied for the 
accounts but was still turned down with H. When speaking to Equifax, they said the issue 
must be with Hs systems, as theirs had been updated  but H were telling him the issue was 
Equifax hadnt updated his record.
The account was ultimately opened on 23 February 2022, but Mr R wasnt happy with the 
delays, so after speaking to Equifax and trying to resolve the matter unsuccessfully, he 
complained.
Equifax said they could see V manually updated the data on 24 January 2022, so as V 
owned the data, they wouldnt be upholding this part of Mr Rs complaint. They said they 
could also see Mr R said he wasnt being assisted by Equifax. They said the agent explained 
Mr R could dispute the data through an existing credit reference service, but as he didnt 
have an account with them directly they couldnt do that initially for him  as they couldnt 
verify him for security reasons. They added if Mr R didnt want to do this, then he could get a 
statutory copy of the credit report by post or online with no expectation of payment. I 
understand Mr R subsequently did sign up with Equifax.
Mr R wasnt happy with Equifaxs explanation, so he asked us to look into things. In doing 
so, he said yes the postal option was offered, but what was left out of the letter was this 
could take four weeks  but if he signed up to their subscription service he could access the 
information immediately. Mr R didnt agree they couldnt verify him for security reasons, 
otherwise why could they post the report to him, but not use this to verify him on the phone. 
Mr R felt the agent had a clear sales pitch to try and get him to sign up to the subscription 
service, which is why he initially refused. Mr R said on 7 March 2022 he got notification his 
credit score had increased, but never got an explanation of why itd increased. He questions 
if its because thats when Equifax finally removed the negative data. 
Ultimately, Mr Rs case wasnt upheld by our Investigators, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint in Mr Rs case is whether Equifax have caused Mr R any material 
inconvenience or distress as a result of their actions when handling his dispute. For reasons 
Ill go on to explain, I dont think they have.
For context only, information provided by data owners isnt something that can usually be 
updated by the credit reference agencys like Equifax unless that data owner agrees to do 
so. The usual process for this is, in this case, for Mr R to raise a dispute through Equifax, 
who would then have contacted V (the data owner) to dispute it. This can take several weeks 
usually, but that isnt what happened in Mr Rs case.
Equifax didnt end up disputing the data, because Ive seen V manually updated the 
information held on Mr Rs credit file. This was the same day Mr R had called Equifax. 
Theyve said it seems likely Mr R called V, who agreed the data was incorrect, and then 
changed it. 
This sounds plausible to me, as the path led from H, who said Equifax were recording 
negative data, to V, who Equifax said were the party recording that negative data. And I note 
Mr R said when contacting us the negative data was removed following him raising the 
dispute with Equifax.
So, as Equifax werent given the opportunity to have disputed the data, I wouldnt have 
expected them to do so  because V updated it the same day Mr R got in touch. As a result 
of that, I dont think Equifax are responsible for investigating why Mr Rs application for an 
account with H was still turned down several days after this  as hes said. Ive seen the data 
was removed by V on Equifaxs systems on 24 January 2022  so, after that, if H was 
carrying out a fresh application using up to date data, I wouldnt have expected any 
information previously to have been recorded by V to be a factor in Hs decision.
Ive also noted Mr Rs concerns about Equifaxs approach on the phone. I understand Mr R 
is frustrated by what he sees as sales tactics by Equifax to get him to sign up for a paid 
subscription. But nothing hes said makes me think Equifax have acted unreasonably. In 
looking at what Mr R has said, it doesnt sound like they refused to assist him  and they did 
offer to post a report. 
Even if though I found they hadnt helped him as much as Id have expected, Id need to 
consider the impact on him. Here, it seems there wouldnt have been an impact  as the 
data was removed the same day anyway, which was the reason for Mr R calling in the first 
place.I understand Mr R may feel frustrated at not getting what he considers a full explanation  
but as there was no opportunity to dispute the data, and it was removed the same day, I 
wont be awarding Mr R any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman