DRN-3854916
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made to American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) in respect of flights purchased using his credit card.
What happened
In summary, Mr D bought flights with an airline (the supplier) which were cancelled because 
of the global pandemic. Mr D paid for the flights with his AESEL credit card and also used a 
significant amount of his airline loyalty points.
Mr D was unable to get a refund from the airline for the tickets so he made a claim with 
AESEL who raised chargebacks for Mr D and recovered the amount paid for the flights on 
the card. However, AESEL did not refund Mr D for the loyalty points he used towards the 
booking. Mr D says these points are worth £600 and he should get this value back.
AESEL looked into the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) but refused to refund him. However, it says that it paid him £75 as compensation for 
initially telling him that he would get this money back. 
In summary, AESEL says he shouldnt get back the £600 he wants because:
 the purchase receipt shows the £600 for using the points as a saving rather than 
part of the total cost of the flights;
 the flight contract was for £2,915 which was the same amount paid using the AESEL 
card (not £3,515);
 the loyalty point scheme is governed by a separate contract with a separate legal 
entity to the supplier not financed by the AESEL card  if Mr D has not received a 
refund of the points his dispute is with it rather the supplier (and AESEL has no 
Section 75 liability in respect of this);
 the terms of the operator of the loyalty scheme excludes liability for the loss of the 
points; and
 the fare is non-refundable  and the terms of the loyalty scheme make it clear that 
the points are only refundable where the fare is refundable. 
AESEL also initially pointed out that Mr D had accepted a voucher for the cancelled flights  
and by getting the money back via chargeback he had recovered his money twice.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has received a refund of what he paid on his card through chargeback so I dont 
consider it necessary to discuss chargeback or that amount here. The central issue is the 
£600 Mr D wants for the loss of loyalty points and whether AESEL was right in refusing his 
Section 75 claim for this.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mr D to make a claim against AESEL for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods and services paid for using 
the credit card. However, certain technical criteria apply as to whether a Section 75 claim is 
valid. In this case I consider the technical criteria is met in order to allow Mr D to make a 
Section 75 claim in respect of the actions of the supplier here.
I dont appear to have been sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the supplier relating to 
Mr Ds booking. So I have looked online at archived terms which I understand to likely be the 
terms and conditions which relate to Mr Ds original ticket booking. I think it fair I consider 
these as the terms that relate to Mr Ds booking while I also note the relevant provisions here 
look to be broadly the same as more recently published versions in any event. From what I 
can see the terms say in the event of cancellation by the supplier one of the options for the 
customer is a cash refund. 
Although there are some chat transcripts showing that Mr D made some initial enquiries 
about cancelling his flight  from what I can see the flight was actually cancelled by the 
supplier in the end. I cant see that any particular contractual term was cited as a reason for 
cancellation. It appears to have been a decision taken due to the global pandemic. 
I can also see Mr D received an email from the supplier confirming the flight was cancelled 
and that a refund was one of the options available. So all things considered I am satisfied 
that a refund was a remedy available to Mr D here. And for the sake of completeness having 
considered the terms and conditions I think Mr D as the lead booker and paying party is 
entitled to claim this refund for the cost of flights booked for the rest of his party.
I note the same email from the supplier also said that if Mr D had accepted a voucher then 
he was no longer eligible for a refund. What appears to have happened is that the supplier 
has subsequently refused to issue Mr D with a refund as it claims he requested and was 
sent a credit voucher already. AESEL has mentioned this point and intimated that as Mr D 
has accepted a voucher and got a refund via chargeback he has had his money back twice.
Mr D strenuously denies that he ever requested or accepted a voucher. And based on what I 
have seen (including his previous communication with the supplier where he clearly doesnt 
want a voucher) I dont see persuasive evidence that he did request the voucher option.
It might be that the supplier sent him one  but that doesnt mean he did choose this as a 
resolution as opposed to a refund. I dont have sight of the communication Mr D received 
setting out all his options on cancellation of the flight, or the online portal he accessed. 
However, I note there have been media reports about the system the airline was using 
issuing vouchers automatically which would plausibly explain why he might have been sent a 
voucher. I will ask the investigator to send this information with my decision.
So while I agree that it would not be fair for Mr D to benefit from a voucher and a cash refund 
(I deal with this later) I am not persuaded he did request or accept a voucher. It follows that 
as I am not persuaded there was a valid voucher agreement in place Mr D was still entitled 
to the refund option as set out in the contract. As the supplier did not issue him a refund of 
his fare in accordance with its contractual obligation I have considered what would be a 
suitable remedy for this breach. I have looked at terms of the separate loyalty scheme which appear to have been in place 
when Mr D booked (and appear to reflect those extracts which AESEL has sent over). I note 
these state that the points used in part payment will be refundable where the fare itself is 
refundable. I know that AESEL has referred to the fact that some non-refundable restrictions 
apply to the ticket class. But those restrictions appear to apply in the event of Mr D 
cancelling. In this case the fare was refundable because the supplier cancelled the flight. 
Considering the terms of the loyalty scheme I think had the supplier issued the refund of the 
fare to Mr D as he was entitled, then he would also have got his loyalty points back. 
However, because the supplier did not permit him to get a refund of his fare (as it should 
have done) Mr D is in a position where he cant get his points back either.
The ideal remedy here is to give Mr D his points back  as it is a valid consequential loss 
which Mr D has suffered as a result of the suppliers actions.
However, AESEL does not have the power to award loyalty points. So this is not a practical 
remedy. Therefore, I think it fair to consider an appropriate cash damages award.
I note that AESEL has intimated that the points do not have a cash value. However, I 
consider they are an earned reward with a long expiry which Mr D (had he got them back) 
would have had likely use of to obtain discounts on future bookings. And once used on a 
flight they represent the cash value of any saving achieved. So I think these would have 
been of value to Mr D had he received them back and represent a tangible loss.
In this case the receipt for Mr Ds booking is clear that the use of the points represents a 
£600 saving on the ticket price. I dont think it is relevant here how the total price of the ticket 
was expressed on the receipt as AESEL has indicated. What is important to me is a way I 
can fairly determine the likely consequential loss Mr D has suffered as a result of the 
suppliers actions. And in this case (and in the absence of practically refunding the points) I 
consider £600 to be fair assessment of said consequential loss. 
AESEL has made some other points about the loyalty scheme being run by a separate legal 
entity but I dont consider that relevant here. I am not considering AESELs liability for any 
breach or misrepresentation by the loyalty scheme operator. This is about AESELs liability 
for the actions of the supplier paid using its card  which will include reasonable 
consequential losses flowing from its actions such as those under discussion here.
I also note AESEL has referred to a general disclaimer made by the loyalty scheme. But I 
dont think that this applies here and I note that it relates to circumstances not under review  
(such as alteration, termination of the programme or the right to earn or redeem points).
So all things considered and with its obligations under Section 75 in mind I consider it fair 
and reasonable that AESEL pay Mr D £600 which it should have fairly awarded him as part 
of his original claim.
 
I dont think Mr D should get an additional interest award on the £600 refund here. Because 
had he got the points back these would not have attracted interest in any event. I also think it 
fair that if Mr D accepts this resolution (and to calm any fears around double recovery) it is 
reasonable that AESEL contact the supplier to request it cancel any credit voucher that it 
issued in relation to the booking due to the fact Mr D has now recovered his costs 
elsewhere. However, I dont think it fair that Mr D be put to any further trouble in attempting 
to cancel the voucher he appears not to have wanted or requested. Nor do I think it fair that 
a refusal or inability to void the voucher by the supplier mean that Mr D does not get the £600 payment (I also note that Mr D has said he has no intention of using the voucher 
anyway and I have no reason to doubt that).
I understand that AESEL has already paid Mr D £75 for the misleading information it gave 
him about the refund for the loyalty points. I think this is fair compensation for this issue in 
light of my overall findings here. 
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr D 
£600. 
I asked the parties for their comments on the provisional decision.
AESEL did not respond. Mr D responded to indicate he was happy with the provisional 
findings. He said he was not sure of AESEL ever paid him the £75 compensation and he 
would hope they are made to pay more than this considering the hassle they have caused 
him and this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has mentioned compensation. AESEL has not clarified if it paid him the £75 already. 
But if it has not done so and Mr D accepts my decision then it needs to as part of my 
directions here.
As an aside Mr D has indicated more compensation should be payable due to the overall 
inconvenience of having to bring a complaint to this service   but this isnt something in 
itself I would usually award compensation for. I also wouldnt be awarding compensation for 
inconvenience caused to this service as Mr D has suggested. Overall, I think the £75 
compensation offered is right for the bit of misinformation Mr D received. It didnt change 
things  ultimately AESEL were not willing to refund him in any event  but I recognise it did 
cause a degree of annoyance to have his hopes temporarily raised like that. 
In summary, neither party has added anything that makes me think I should change my key 
findings as set out in my provisional decision (incorporated above). I still think these findings 
are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined here (and incorporating my provisional decision) AESEL should pay 
Mr D £600. It should also pay him £75 compensation if it has not already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr D 
£600. It should also pay him the £75 compensation if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Mark LancodOmbudsman