DRN-2359592
The complaint
Mr D complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined his 
motor insurance claim. Mr D is represented by a solicitor, but Ill refer only to Mr D. 
What happened
Mr D claimed under his LV motor insurance policy after his car was stolen from his driveway. 
LV declined the claim because it said the spare car key was in the car when it was stolen.
Mr D asked LV to reconsider. He said the police thought his car was stolen to order using 
tools, so it wasnt an opportunistic theft. And that it was locked and switched off, without the 
key in the ignition. Mr D said he didnt leave the spare key in the car  it was left there 
without his knowledge as an oversight by his wife (who was a named driver under the policy) 
and the garage that repaired his car a couple of weeks previously. 
LV said it correctly declined the claim because when Mr Ds wife first told LV about the theft, 
she said a key was left in the car after it was repaired by the garage and she and Mr D knew 
this. And that the police report noted the keys were left in the car and used to take it, and the 
garage had confirmed it had given back the keys after completing repairs. LV said while 
Mr D might not personally have known the key was in the car, the policy terms apply to 
everyone named on the contract of insurance.  
Mr D asked our service to investigate. He said the garage left the spare key out of sight in 
the car and didnt tell him, so he and his wife didnt know the spare key was in the car. And 
that the key in car exclusion shouldnt apply anyway because LV didnt highlight it at either 
the sale of his policy or its renewal. And if LV had highlighted it, hed have been aware of the 
risk and mightve acted differently. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. He said he collected the car from the garage with his main set of keys. 
And that it was only during a very brief call with LV that his wife guessed a spare key 
couldve been left in the car by the garage, without Mr D knowing. Neither he nor his wife 
had seen the spare key left in the car. And this call happened after the theft when Mr D and 
his wife were in shock. Mr D said the police have advised him an illegal device mightve 
been used to access and start his car, as with other similar thefts in the area. 
As Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, his complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy exclusion that LV is relying on to decline Mr Ds claim says We will not pay for 
the following:  
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if the ignition key or other 
ignition device is left in, on or attached to or left in the immediate proximity of your 
car.
Mr D says neither he or his wife knew the spare key had been left in the car, and has 
suggested it was left there by the garage that repaired his car. But ultimately, its not in 
dispute that a spare key was in the car at the time of the theft. And the policy exclusion 
doesnt suggest it makes a difference who left the key in the car or whether the policyholder 
or anyone connected to them knew that it was. Although, Im satisfied Mr D and his wife - a 
named driver under the policy  were aware the spare key was in the car. Ill explain why.
The police report logged by Mr Ds wife very soon after the theft was discovered notes The 
spare keys were left in the car And when Mr Ds wife spoke to LV to report the theft she 
clearly tells LV that the spare key was left in the cars centre console after it had been at a 
garage for repairs two or three weeks earlier, and confirms that we would have been 
aware that the spare key was in the car. 
Mr D has said his wife was only guessing the key was in the car and was in shock. But 
having listened to the call, I dont agree. Ive heard Mr Ds wife say more than once that she 
knew the key was in the car, without giving any indication that she was unsure and without 
needing to check with Mr D, who was in the background of the call. So Im satisfied Mr Ds 
wife knew the spare key was in the car.
Mr D says he personally didnt know it was in the car, but I think its more likely than not that 
he did. Towards the end of his wifes call with LV, Mr D told LV he couldnt remember what 
the garage said about the spare key when he collected his car. LV checked this with the 
garage, and its email dated 28 August 2019 suggests the garage told LV Mr D signed a 
collection note saying the spare key was in the car. The email says Speaking with [garage 
employee] she advised that on the collection note it states the keys in the centre console 
and that [Mr D] signed the note. In reply, the garage said it couldnt provide further 
information due to data protection but could confirm Mr D was given the key at collection. 
So there is some evidence here to suggest the garage left the spare key in centre console, 
but that same evidence suggests the garage took steps to make Mr D aware of this by 
asking him to sign the collection note. And because Mr D signed the collection note, its 
reasonable to think he read it. So on the balance of probability, I think its more likely than 
not Mr D was also aware the spare key was in the car. 
Mr D says its unfair for LV to apply the key in car exclusion because it didnt do enough to 
highlight this exclusion to him. But LV has given us copies of the documents it provided to 
Mr D when he renewed his policy three months before his car was stolen. These include a 
two page insurance product information document (IPID), which LV was obliged to provide 
to Mr D under the regulations. This IPID summarised the key information about Mr Ds 
policy, with the first page showing a box titled What is not insured. This box makes clear 
that theft where the key is in the car wont be covered. 
Based on this, I think LV took reasonable steps to highlight this exclusion to Mr D when he 
most recently took out the policy. Even if LV hadnt highlighted this exclusion, it would be 
hard for me to conclude this had prejudiced Mr Ds position as hes adamant that neither he 
or his wife knew the key was in the car. 
I think it was fair for LV to rely on this exclusion and decline Mr Ds claim. Therefore, I wont 
be asking LV to do anything further here, though I realise this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr D.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman