DRN-3997415
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unreasonably refused to refund three 
transactions on her bank account which she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs H initially said she had lost her debit card when out shopping and that later she saw the 
notifications of these disputed transactions on her phone. And it was then she informed 
Barclays. However, it now transpires that Mrs H also left her phone in a shop by accident 
and when she realised this, she discovered the phone was still in the shop, so she retrieved 
it. 
So, Mrs H first thought the transactions were done with her debit card. However, Barclays 
evidence shows they were done on her phone and through her banking app on her phone 
which was also accessed. On this basis Barclays said it had no duty to refund these 
transactions as Mrs H failed to keep her security details safe. 
Unhappy Mrs H referred her complaint to us. The investigator also thought Barclays stance 
on the matter was correct and she didnt recommend Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. 
As Mrs H remained dissatisfied her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I do understand my decision will be very disappointing to Mrs H, but I can only decide 
complaints like this with regards to the regulations which Barclays must abide by.
 
These regulations are called the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs). They provide the 
duties that a customer like Mrs H should adhere to plus the duties Barclays must adhere to 
as well. 
The starting position is that the consumer Mrs H is liable for all authorised transactions and 
Barclays is liable for all unauthorised transactions. 
Under these regulations, transactions are deemed authorised if the correct procedure is 
followed to make the transaction. It doesnt matter if Mrs H didnt physically do the 
transactions herself either but that the correct procedure is followed. So, because Mrs H 
accidentally left her phone in the shop and because her phone didnt have any security code 
that meant the fraudster could access her phone and see she had Barclays banking app on 
the phone. Mrs H also told us that because she finds it difficult to remember passcodes etc 
she had the banking apps password written down in her phone under a notes tab. 
One of the duties which the PSRs say a customer must do, is to take all reasonable steps 
to keep safe personalised security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an 
account information service. This is the primary obligation the PSRs place on consumers. 
The regulations go on to say that a bank can hold the consumer liable if they havent met 
these obligations with either intent or gross negligence. I accept that Mrs H didnt 
intentionally allow someone else to use her phone to make a payment. So, I have to go on to 
consider whether she has been grossly negligent with her personalised security details.
Gross negligence is a concept that goes beyond carelessness  it needs to be a rather 
significant failing that any reasonable person would see as a risk. This is quite a high bar to 
clear.
Barclays has shown me that that for these three disputed transactions the payment was 
authorised through the banking app. And the person accessing the banking app on Mrs Hs 
phone was able to successfully gain access to the banking app each time. Two of the 
payments were verified by Visa so again the password was used and the third one was 
authorised in the banking app. That means whoever did these transactions was able to 
access Mrs Hs phone and then her banking apps passcode. Given her phone has no 
passcode and wasnt locked and her banking app passcode was held under a tab called 
notes, I consider that Mrs H didnt take reasonable steps to keep her phone and her banking 
app on her phone secure. I think any reasonable person would recognise this as a serious 
risk  anybody who could get access to Mrs Hs phone would be able to carry out banking 
and transactions, without the need for any further information. On that basis, I consider that 
shes been grossly negligent with her security information. 
Also, on this basis there is no duty by virtue of the PSRs for Barclays to refund these 
disputed transactions to Mrs H.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman