DRN-4227255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) refused to pay the £125 
refer a friend (RAF) incentive offer to them.
What happened
In February 2023 Co-op relaunched its existing RAF scheme - an iteration of which had 
been in place since November 2020. The scheme offers both the referrer and referred £125 
if the friend opens an account with Co-op. 
Mrs G benefitted from the scheme in January 2023 and received a £125 payment for 
opening an account which she then switched out a couple of weeks later. 
Mrs G then opened another account in February (the following month) and wished to take 
advantage of the relaunched scheme. Mr G was an existing customer and the 
recommender. Both expected to receive £125 under the scheme.
Co-op refused to make the payment as the terms and conditions allow for the recommended 
friend to only receive one payment and Mrs G had already benefitted from the scheme in 
January. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with this and brought their complaint to this service. Mr and Mrs 
G say that the RAF application was valid because it was for a new offer and that the £125 
received in January was a previous offer. So they believe they qualify for the incentive for 
the new period.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns and didnt think that Co-op 
had treated them unfairly in refusing to make a second incentive payment because Mrs G 
had already benefitted from the scheme. They thought the terms and conditions made this 
clear and didnt think the scheme was designed for it to be possible for customers to benefit 
on multiple occasions. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs G have experienced and see if Co-op has 
done anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr 
and Mrs G in the position they wouldve been in if this hadnt happened - in this case direct 
Co-op to pay them the £125 incentive. 
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Co-op refuse to pay them the £125 they believe is due to them 
under the RAF scheme for when Mrs G opened an account in February 2023.
Mrs G benefitted from the RAF scheme and received a £125 payment in January 2023.
The terms and conditions at 3.6 say:
The Recommend a Friend is entitled to only one payment even if they switch more than one 
account to us or if more than one Recommender refers them.
Mr and Mrs G think that this is only relevant to the particular offer period as there is nothing 
to explicitly state otherwise. But I disagree. It might not explicitly state you cant benefit twice 
over more than one offer period, but nor does it say you can. And ultimately, I dont think 
exploiting this omission in the terms and conditions is in the spirit of the scheme. 
I think a reasonable person would likely understand that the purpose of such schemes is to 
attract new customers and their business and not to have customers switch bank accounts 
back and forth to capitalise on the incentive payments. Indeed, the Co-ops terms and 
conditions also cover this type of situation and allow it to withhold any payment where it has 
reasonable grounds for suspecting a customer of materially abusing or profiteering from the 
offer. So I think it would be unfair to penalise Co-op in situations such as this and ask it to 
make a further payment to Mrs G when she has already benefitted.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Co-op has done anything wrong or 
treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly and so I do not uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against The Co-
operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman