DRN-3757870
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that Hinckley and Rugby Building Society declined their mortgage 
application without giving them a valid reason for doing so.
What happened
In early 2021, through a broker, Mrs K and Mr S applied to the society for a buy-to-let 
mortgage. They say their broker discussed their circumstances with the society in detail, and 
the society indicated it would be prepared to grant the mortgage, so they went on to make an 
application.
The society declined the application soon afterwards. Mrs K and Mr S are very unhappy 
about this, and say there was no good reason for their application to have been turned 
down.
Our Investigator didnt think the society had done anything wrong. She didnt find any 
evidence of maladministration or unfair treatment, and said the society was entitled to 
decline Mrs Ks and Mr Ss application, and it didnt have to give reasons for doing so. 
Mrs K and Mr S didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review. They said the society 
had clearly made mistakes in assessing their application and they had lost time and money 
as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hinckley and Rugby was entitled to decide for itself whether or not it was prepared to grant 
the mortgage Mrs K and Mr S wanted. There was no obligation on it to lend. While it had 
given an initial indication that it might be prepared to do so, that was all it was  an 
indication. A decision to agree a mortgage was always subject to the societys assessment 
of a full application, and this was set out in the mortgage illustration that was provided to Mrs 
K and Mr S. 
The illustration also said that the £250 mortgage arrangement fee was non-refundable. I 
note that the society did refund Mrs Ks and Mr Ss valuation fee, because it accepted that it 
shouldnt have instructed a valuation before it had first assessed their application. 
The society didnt have to give Mrs K and Mr S reasons for its decision to turn down their 
application. No lender ever has to give reasons for declining an application  especially, as 
in this case, with an unregulated buy-to-let mortgage. It nevertheless set out some initial 
concerns about Mr Ss residency status and passport, and the ground rent on the property 
that Mrs K and Mr S wanted to buy. Mrs K and Mr S pointed to misunderstandings and 
mistakes with these initial concerns, and as a result the society re-assessed their 
application.
I think that was a reasonable approach for the society to have taken. Its decision not to lend, 
however, remained the same. 
I have to decide whether the society dealt fairly with Mrs Ks and Mr Ss application and gave 
it proper consideration. It records satisfy me that it did, and that it exercised its commercial 
discretion legitimately. As Ive said, it didnt have to go into detail about why it wouldnt grant 
the mortgage, and so I see no basis on which I can fairly require it to do so now. Im also 
satisfied that it dealt with the application in a reasonable timeframe. For these reasons, I 
make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman