DRN-1168076
 
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened
Between August 2016 and September 2018 Sunny provided Mr Q with 27 instalment loans. 
When they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid by six monthly 
repayments. Currently, as I understand the position, unless things have recently changed 
then Mr Q still owes Sunny money on unpaid loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first 10 loans:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest
Repayment
113/08/2016 30/09/2016 6 £400.00 £122.74
219/08/2016 31/01/2017 6 £200.00 £181.57
330/12/2016 19/04/2017 6 £300.00 £158.75
401/01/2017 19/04/2017 6 £250.00 £240.42
505/01/2017 19/04/2017 6 £250.00 £320.50
607/04/2017 19/04/2017 6 £250.00 £340.42
723/06/2017 02/08/2017 6 £200.00 £66.67
827/06/2017 28/06/2017 6 £100.00 £100.00
918/07/2017 27/07/2017 6 £100.00 £96.46
10 24/07/2017 27/07/2017 6 £100.00 £124.75
*Highest repayment represents the largest instalment due on that loan and any overlapping 
loans.Mr Q took out a further 17 loans after this ranging from £50.00 to £500.00 - up until his last 
loan in September 2018. 
Mr Q feels that taking into account his income and expenditure these loans were 
unaffordable for him and his financial history meant he wasnt creditworthy. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Qs complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1 - 4 shouldnt have been lent  but he felt that by loan 5 Sunny shouldve seen that 
Mr Q was likely having money problems. And by loan 6 his overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldnt have lent to him from loan 5 onwards and he set out what he thought Sunny 
should do to put things right for Mr Q. 
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicator but responded to say it was willing to write off the 
outstanding balance as a gesture of goodwill so that Mr Q wouldnt owe Sunny anything 
more.
When Mr Q didn't accept this offer Sunny reconsidered its position and wrote to us with a 
further offer  this time saying it would uphold the complaint from loan 13. Sunny offer a 
refund and also said it would amend Mr Qs credit file accordingly.
Sunny sent us details showing how it had worked out what to pay and we sent this 
information on to Mr Q. But hes aware this offer stills falls short of what our adjudicator 
recommended and hes asked for an ombudsman review. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Sunny was required to establish whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr Q. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Qs credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr Q told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2, 3 and 4. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for 
Mr Q, based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the 
checks it did were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr Q hasnt raised any objection to 
the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these first four loans, I dont think that I need 
to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Qs borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 5, Mr Q already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. This suggests to 
me that Mr Q was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and his financial 
difficulties were likely ongoing.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Qs borrowing record had the hallmarks of someone struggling with debt. And despite 
what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr Q was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 5  and 
any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr Q. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr Q to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think by loan 6 Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. I say this because:
Mr Q wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr Q had been paying Sunny 
loans every month for 8 months in a row since hed started borrowing from Sunny 
and he was now taking out his sixth loan  due to keep him indebted to Sunny for a 
further 6 months 
 following on from his earlier overlapping loans mentioned above, Sunny could see 
that when Mr Q asked for loan 6, he was still making repayments on loans 3, 4 and 5.
 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr Q before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into his debt 
 
although the loan amounts were variable this record of borrowing doesnt suggest 
that Mr Q was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, 
I think this indicated that overall his financial circumstances hadnt improved and he 
had ongoing money problems and that he wasnt using the loans for their intended 
purpose 
I think that Mr Q lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Qs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Qs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 27 and Sunny should put things 
right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
If Sunny has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr Q towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr Q which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr Q originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr Q as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr Q having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr Q. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr Q. 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Qs credit file for loan 5. The overall pattern of 
borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about loans 6 through to 27 is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 6 through to 27 should be removed from Mr Qs 
credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Qs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman