DRN-4396388
The complaint
Mr L complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (SIC) and the excess they 
charged after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr L purchased a motor insurance policy underwritten by SIC. This 
policy renewed in December 2021 and 2022. Unfortunately, in February 2023, Mr L was 
involved in a road traffic accident. So, he contacted SIC to make a claim on his policy.
SIC accepted Mr Ls claim, and upon Mr Ls request, they arranged for the repairs to his car 
to be completed at a repairer of Mr Ls choice, rather than one of their own approved 
repairers. Ill refer to this repairer as B. But when Mr L took his car to B, he was made 
aware of a £600 excess he was expected to pay. Mr L was unhappy about this, so he raised 
a complaint.
Mr L didnt think the £600 excess was a fair one. He accepted his policy had a standard 
excess of £150, and that using a non-approved repairer required an additional payment of 
£250. But Mr L didnt think an extra £200 excess should be applicable. And so, he wanted 
this £200 to be refunded to him, plus compensation for the upset and inconvenience he was 
caused.
SIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the excess Mr L was 
charged was correct, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr L held. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr L continued to disagree, as he didnt 
think the terms and conditions set out the applicable excesses clearly. So, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the £600 excess 
SIC charged was a fair one, calculated in line with the policy Mr L held. And they didnt think 
they had seen any evidence that showed SIC mis-managing Mr Ls expectations regarding 
this. So, they didnt think SIC needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He thought the Additional own damage, fire and theft excess of £200 
was unfair, and unclear. Mr L explained this additional excess wasnt made clear at the time 
the policy was purchased using a comparison website. And because of this, he maintained 
his belief it should be refunded.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls comments. But their view remained the same, explaining 
Mr Ls belief that a wider rule change for insurers and clarity of excesses would need to be 
raised with the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, rather than ourselves. Mr 
L continued to disagree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr L. I dont doubt Mr Ls 
testimony regarding his awareness of the applicable excess. From what hes told us, I think 
its clear Mr L was unaware, or at the very least did not completely understand, the additional 
own damage excess shown on his policy schedule. So, I can understand why Mr L feels 
unfairly treated.
But for me to say SIC should do something differently, such as refund Mr L part of the 
excess he paid, I first need to be satisfied SIC did something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that SIC failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr L held 
when calculating the excess applicable to the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id 
need to be satisfied that SIC acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive seen the policy schedules attached to Mr Ls insurance policies, from 2020 to 2022. And 
in all three schedules, it states the following:
The following excesses will apply to each section of the Policy Wording as follows:
1,2,6: Standard Excess £150
1,2,6: Voluntary Excess £0
3: Windscreen Repair Excess £25
3: Windscreen Replacement Excess £95
1,2,6: An additional excess of £250 applies in addition to any excess shown if you choose 
not to use the insurers approved repairer.
 I note Mr L isnt disputing the standard excess of £150, or the additional excess of £250 as 
he accepts he chose to use his own repairer. But for completeness, Im satisfied the policy 
schedule, which forms part of Mr Ls policy documents, makes both excesses reasonably 
clear.
The policy schedules then go onto explain that Endorsements may apply to your policy 
which impose an additional excess in certain circumstances or for certain vehicle types. 
Please refer to the Endorsements section above to see if any of these are applicable to 
your policy.
And Ive seen above this, within the same document on the same page, it states 
Endorsement 1  Additional own damage fire and theft excess: £200.
So, from the wording SIC provided, I think its made reasonably clear that this £200 excess 
would be applicable, on top of the standard excess, and non-approved repairer excess. And 
I think this is further supported by the terms and conditions of the policy itself, where it 
explains under the heading Extra conditions  endorsements that for endorsement 1, Mr L 
is responsible for the first amount of each claim under section 1 accidental damageto 
your car and that this amount is increased from the standard excess listed on your 
schedulethis excess will apply as well as any standard excess (or excesses)
So, as Mr L was claiming for damage repairs for his own car, and using a non-approved repairer of his choice, I think SIC acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr 
L held when applying a further £450 excess on top of the standard £150 excess, taking the 
excess payment to £600 in total.
But as Ive explained above, as well as thinking about whether SIC acted in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, Ive also thought about whether I think SIC acted fairly when 
doing so. And when considering this, Ive thought about whether I think SIC treated Mr L the 
same as any other customer in the same situation. And I think they have.
Ive listened to a call between SIC and Mr L, before his repairs were arranged with B. And on 
this call, I think SIC made it clear Mr Ls excess would be £350, with an extra £250 on top of 
this should Mr L continue to use B. And in the same call, I think SIC made a concerted effort 
to ensure Mr L understood this, which he said he did. Had Mr L been concerned about the 
excess amount, I wouldve expected him to raise it at this time, but he didnt. So, I think SIC 
acted fairly when progressing the claim the way they did, at Mr Ls request. And I think this is 
what they wouldve done for any other customer.
I also note Mr L feels the applicable excess on his policy changed at renewal, from the policy 
he originally purchased. But Ive seen the policy schedules from each policy year, and the 
accompanying terms and conditions. And Im satisfied the excesses applied to Mr Ls claim 
were the same value in each schedule, so I cant agree that SIC changed Mr Ls policy 
unfairly, or without his knowledge. 
But I note this doesnt necessarily address Mr Ls concerns about the information he was 
given regarding the policy excesses at the time of purchase. And he thinks the way SIC 
advertise their policy, and any applicable excess, it deliberately misleading. But this isnt the 
complaint Mr L raised with SIC, nor is it the complaint this decision is able to address. This 
decision focuses solely on the application of the excesses to Mr Ls claim, and whether they 
were correct, and fair. Should Mr L feel he was mis-sold the policy, he would need to raise 
this as a specific complaint directly with L. But I would make it clear that, following any 
response from SIC, our service is unable to comment upon, or direct a business to change, 
their business processes. Or the way in which the industry can advertise their policies on 
comparison websites. This would be the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
So, because of all the above, I dont think SIC have done anything wrong on this occasion 
and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman