DRN-2728483
The complaint
Ms H complains that Smith & Williamson Investment Management LLP (SWIM) wrongly 
advised her to take out a risk-based Junior ISA (for her grandson) and then mismanaged the 
investment. 
What happened
Ms H said that SWIM invested most of her money in the Woodford Patient Capital Trust 
(WPCT), failing to diversify her portfolio via other funds. She queried whether investment in 
the WPCT was suitable for a teenager with no investment experience, why SWIM was slow 
to act when problems around Woodford Investment Management (WIM) became prevalent 
in the media, and also whether the costs of the WPCT made it viable. She said SWIM should 
have advised her to open a building society account for her grandson instead.
An investigator at this service did not feel Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. 
In his View, he outlined the background to the case including SWIMs role, Ms Hs 
investment objectives, her status as a non-advised client and the various communications 
between the parties over the years. These, in essence, were the main reasons why he did 
not believe the complaint should be upheld:
Ms H chose to invest through SWIM as a non-advised client; it was not therefore in a 
position to suggest, or otherwise, that she should invest her money in a building 
society
Ms H agreed that it would manage her investment on a discretionary basis, having 
complete freedom over fund and asset decisions (within the agreed risk level)
She was repeatedly asked to confirm the level of risk she was looking to take with 
this money and reiterated she wanted a medium-high risk portfolio (only asking it to 
be reduced to medium late in the day)
While most of the money was in the WPCT fund, this was a very diversified fund; so, 
he was satisfied that the portfolio was suitably diversified
SWIM regularly checked Mrs Hs risk level and overall objectives 
While her grandson was 12 at the start of the investment and her objective was to 
provide funds for his future education, she repeatedly said she was looking for a 
long-term investment, even confirming this approach when her grandson had 
reached 15
All the fees were clearly spelt out in the documentation; WPCTs fees were 
particularly low so he didnt accept that these made it an unsuitable part of her 
portfolio
SWIM notified Mrs H about the impact of WIMs problems in June 2019 but advised 
her to stick with its funds as the underlying diversified assets remained strong
After Ms H reiterated her concerns about funds linked to WIM, SWIM agreed to move 
her money to another product without charging for this
Mark Woodford/WIM had a strong track record of bouncing back from fund 
difficulties, so it was not unreasonable for SWIM to advise against instantly 
withdrawing all her money from the WPCT; also, Ms H mandated it operate with 
complete discretion over investment decisions and was entitled to make its 
investment decisions until clearly instructed otherwise
Ms H did not agree, reiterating many of her earlier points:
SWIM should not have recommended the investment which was never viable given 
the high costs compared to the amounts she invested
It was aware that she wanted to access this money after her grandsons A levels so 
should have acted to change her objectives as this date got closer
The overall charges on such a small fund were always going to be disproportionately 
high; she didnt realise this at the time but SWIM should have done
The investigator said that Woodfords funds had previously bounced back over four 
and seven-year periods, but given her need for the money when her grandson was 
18, these time periods wouldnt have been acceptable even if WIMs funds had 
ultimately bounced back
Even if the WPCT was initially a reasonable fund, why didnt SWIM invest future 
money in other funds?
In April 2018 she reduced the level of risk she wanted to take; why didnt SWIM 
disinvest from the WPCT at this point?
SWIM should have disinvested as soon as she made her concerns known
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
his lengthy arguments (outlined in his View).
I have seen no evidence to suggest that SWIM provided Ms H with investment advice, 
including producing a suitability document or written recommendations etc. She did, 
however, agree it would have discretionary powers to manage the investment within the 
agreed mandate of a medium-high risk level and a five-year plus timeframe. As she was 
planning to access this money some time on or after her grandsons 18th birthday (six years 
hence), this timescale was understandable.
Therefore, I cannot agree that it ought to have advised her or advised her not to invest in this 
product.
It did regularly ask her to confirm her ongoing objectives; and in my view, it was Ms Hs 
responsibility to check if she was still happy with investments which were designed as 
medium/long-term time commitments  including, for example, by the time her grandson was 
16. As this was not an advised sale or one where she was paying for ongoing advice, I dont 
believe it was up to SWIM to question whether she should amend her investment objectives 
the closer her grandson got to 18.
As the investigator explained, the WPCT fund invested in a wide range of assets, so I dont 
agree that it should have been diversifying further when Ms H added new money over the 
years. As she admitted, the amounts involved were very modest, and I dont believe there 
was an overwhelming need to spread these small sums between various funds. This may 
have increased the size of the overall charges.I also dont believe that the WPCT fund became unsuitable when Ms H slightly reduced her 
capacity for risk in 2018. In my experience, the spread of assets continued to be comparable 
with many other medium risk-rated products in the market.
Its important to stress that my role, and that of this service, is to assess whether there is 
sufficient, persuasive evidence to safely conclude that a business clearly did something 
wrong; not merely to conclude that it might have done something differently.
With hindsight, one may well conclude that most businesses would have been better off 
withdrawing their clients money from Woodford funds as soon as they began to fall and/or 
when the media raised concerns about them. But it would not be fair to judge any business 
decisions by relying on hindsight. Many businesses, including SWIM, did not take that view 
at the time and for understandable reasons. Sudden market movements do not always 
indicate permanent or even medium-term falls in the value of a particular fund or asset. Also, 
once the first fall has occurred a client has already lost money so exiting a fund at that point 
guarantees a loss which may be reversed.
Crucially, SWIM had wide discretionary powers, as mandated to it by Ms H, so it was for its 
manager/s to use their judgement when deciding investment switches in these situations.
I also think SWIM was entitled to say to Ms H that, in its view, the initial fall in Woodford 
funds did not necessarily indicate longer-term problems. It was for Ms H to decide when to 
instruct it that she wanted to withdraw her money from such funds. 
Finally, I think that SWIM was responsible for ensuring all the fees were clearly displayed. It 
was, in my view, for Ms H to decide whether she was happy to pay these taking into account 
the likely sums she planned to invest.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman