DRN-3770300
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr L opened a credit card account with Nationwide in January 2019. The initial credit limit 
was £5,400. 
Mr L eventually defaulted on his credit card. Mr L says that Nationwide acted irresponsibly 
by providing him with the credit card. He was struggling financially and was gambling 
heavily. He says if Nationwide had done adequate checks on his situation it would have 
seen that he wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a reasonable length of time. 
Nationwide says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr L and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr L. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ls complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He 
considered that it was clear Mr L was in financial difficulty and would not be able to 
sustainably meet his repayments.
Mr L agreed with our adjudicators view. Nationwide did not respond, so the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ls complaint.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. Certain factors might point to the 
fact that Nationwide should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include things like understanding Mr Ls 
income, the total amount Mr L borrowed, and the length of time Mr L had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Nationwide repeatedly failed to engage with this service in relation to Mr Ls complaint. It did 
not provide evidence until the adjudicators view had been conducted. When it did provide 
some information, it showed very little comprehensible data and Nationwide provided no 
narrative to explain why it thought it had made a reasonable lending decision. It said it put Mr 
Ls application through a full creditworthiness and affordability assessment but failed to 
demonstrate this. It provided a list of the reasons why any application may, in general, be 
declined, intimating that Mr Ls application met its lending requirements. It failed to respond 
substantively to the adjudicators view.
While Nationwide may have satisfied its own internal lending criteria when it lent to Mr L that 
is not the matter I have to consider. I need to consider whether that lending decision was fair 
and appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Mr L already had a financial relationship with Nationwide. He banked with Nationwide and he 
had increased his overdraft with it in December 2018 and January 2019. In the same months 
he had applied for two personal loans with Nationwide and had been refused both times. Mr 
L has provided evidence that it did so because it did not think the lending was appropriate in 
his circumstances. It referred to its obligation to be a responsible lender as a reason for 
rejecting his applications. While I do not know the sums that Mr L was seeking through those 
loans I think the rejections (combined with Mr Ls two requests to increase his overdraft limit 
in the space of two weeks) show that Nationwide knew that Mr L was not in a good financial 
position. It should have used its knowledge of the holistic lending relationship to help make 
its decision on the credit card application. At the very least it should have asked for more 
information about Mr Ls financial circumstances or sought it out from its own records.
Had Nationwide done this I think it would have seen even more evidence that Mr L could not 
sustainably repay his credit card. Mr Ls net salary each month was around £1,700. He was 
paying over £850 per month to service other debts and £510 in rent, leaving him only around 
£340 a month for other essential outgoings such as food, transport and phone contract. His 
bank statements showed numerous gambling transactions. For example, in his November-
December 2018 bank statement provided by both Mr L and Nationwide, he spent over 
£1,700  his entire net monthly salary-on gambling. While this is an entirely lawful use of Mr 
Ls own funds it ought to have provided Nationwide with concerns about how Mr L was 
managing his finances when taken with other information easily available to it. Nationwide 
have made no comment on this.
On balance, on the information available to me, I dont think the decision Nationwide made 
to provide a credit card to Mr L was fair or appropriate. It failed to take into account (or give 
sufficient weight to) information readily available to it which indicated Mr L would have 
difficulty making sustainable repayments. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Nationwide ought to have opened this account I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge and interest, fees or charges under the credit agreement. But as Mr L has 
had the benefit of the money he borrowed he should pay that back. Nationwide should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees and charges and any insurances 
which havent already been refunded that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr L along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Nationwide should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Ls credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Nationwide should arrange 
and affordable repayment plan with Mr L for the remaining amount. Once Mr L has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file.
If Nationwide has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party of liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asked for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Nationwide to pay compensation as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman