DRN-3733465
The complaint
Mr J complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
affordability checks before it granted loans which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr J took three home collected loans from Morses between September 2018 and 
October 2019. A summary of his borrowing can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 25/09/2018 06/03/2019 33 £10.00
2 £500.00 06/03/2019 22/10/2019 33 £25.00
3 £500.00 22/10/2019 11/03/2021 34 £25.00
Morses considered Mr Js complaint so didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr Js representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to provide these loans. However, she did conclude that perhaps further checks 
couldve been carried out before loans 2 and 3 were granted but based on what she had the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr Js representative, responded and didnt agree with the outcome, it explained (verbatim):
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Js income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Before loan one was approved, Morses took details of Mr Js income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Mr Js income as being £200 per week with weekly outgoings of £118.50. 
Morses was therefore aware that he had around £81.50 per week in which to make the 
weekly loan payment of £10. 
Similar income and expenditure details were collected before loans two and three were 
granted. Mr J declared a weekly income of between £200 and £210, with outgoings of 
£122.70 and £156.75. This left a sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments of 
£25.  
Based solely on the declared income and expenditure information Morses couldve 
reasonably concluded Mr J would be in a position to afford the weekly repayments he had 
committed to. 
In addition to the above, before loan one, Morses also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results. It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a 
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard. But what Morses cant do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to 
the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the results that it has provided. There is no adverse information such as 
insolvency, County Court Judgement, defaults, or delinquent accounts. In addition, Morses 
was aware of total outstanding debts of £957 across six opened credit accounts. So, I dont think the credit checks wouldve alerted Morses to either have declined the loan applications 
or to have prompted it to make further enquiries with Mr J. I say this because Mr J had a 
small number of opened accounts, didnt owe other creditors significant sums and didnt 
have any obvious adverse repayment difficulties. 
I do think its arguable by loan three, given the small amount of disposable income which Mr 
J was left with each week that perhaps further checks ought to have been carried out by 
Morses. But as no further information has been provided by either Mr J or his representative, 
I cant say what Morses may have seen had it built up a more detailed picture of his 
circumstances. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship and taking into account everything else Ive 
seen I think Morses made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and so I am not 
upholding Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman