DRN-4435588
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the responses he has received from BUPA Insurance Limited in 
relation to his request for a quote and information about transferring from one private 
medical insurance scheme to another.
What happened
Mr T holds private medical insurance through BUPA. This policy provides cover for treatment 
received within the UK. In 2022 Mr T was moving abroad and so he looked to take out a 
separate policy with BUPA for overseas residents. However, Mr T asked for confirmation 
that he could reinstate his UK policy on the same terms when he returned and also asked for 
information on the premium cost  BUPA said it couldnt provide this.
Unhappy with this response Mr T made a complaint. BUPA explained that while it currently 
offered transfers back to the original policy, it couldnt guarantee that such transfers would 
still be available at the point he did wish to return, nor could they guarantee it would be on 
the same type of policy. BUPA also said that it was unable to provide Mr T with a price for a 
UK policy to start at a future date as the products and prices do change.
Mr T remained unhappy with this reply and so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. As no agreement could 
be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T is unhappy that BUPA cannot confirm that he will be able to transfer back to his UK 
cover on the same terms if he moves over to an overseas policy whilst abroad. And he feels 
BUPA should be able to provide him with a quote for what it is likely to cost him in premium if 
he should return.
BUPA has explained that it has previously and currently still offers a transfer for members 
from the overseas policies provided there hasnt been a break in the two policy covers. 
However, it cannot guarantee that this will still be available if and when Mr T does return. 
Nor can it confirm that it would be able to provide cover with the same terms as his current 
UK policy as this may no longer be available. And as premiums and products do change, 
BUPA says it cannot provide a quote for a policy in the future.
I appreciate why Mr T would be looking to receive these assurances from BUPA. He 
currently has a UK policy which he says has better terms to those available to a new 
member and so he wants to have the option to reinstate the policy on the same terms he has 
now. And I can understand why it would be helpful for Mr T to have an idea of the premium 
he is likely to be charged so that he can plan for this. 
Ive thought about this point very carefully, however, Im persuaded that BUPAs reasons for 
not providing the guarantees Mr T is seeking are reasonable. Insurance is provided to cover 
certain risks - the cover available and the cost charged for that cover will depend on what 
risks the insurer is prepared to take on when providing that insurance. But those risks can 
change over time, meaning that the cost to provide that cover may increase, or the insurer 
may decide that the risk is no longer one it wishes to cover. And BUPA wont know at this 
stage if any of those changes will happen in the future. This is generally why insurance 
quotes are valid for a limited period of time. Therefore, I dont think BUPA is being unfair 
when it says that it cannot confirm what will be available to Mr T if and when he decides to 
return to the UK and reinstate his cover or what the price will be. 
So, taking everything into account I dont require BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman