DRN-2558365
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are complaining about the surrender value they received from The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited when they cashed in their investment. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs T invested £19,800 into a Prudential investment plan. 
On 16 March 2020, Mr T asked his financial advisor to let him know the surrender value of 
the investment. The financial advisor looked online and told him the value was a little over 
£21,000. In response, Mr T decided to cash in the investment and sent a form into Prudential 
by post on 18 March 2020. But when he received the proceeds, the amount was around 
£19,000. When Mr Ts financial advisor questioned this, Prudential told him that the unit 
price of the investment had been reduced on 20 March 2020. Mr T feels that he and his wife 
should have been given the choice to stop their surrender given there was such a large 
reduction in an investment that was described as cautious.
In their final response to Mr Ts complaint, Prudential said they processed the surrender in 
line with the terms of the policy and using the unit price on the date it was received. They 
explained that a unit price adjustment (UPA) had been applied to the fund effective 
20 March 2020 and that was what had caused the reduction in surrender value. They said 
the terms and conditions allowed them to apply UPAs without informing policyholders in 
advance. So, they said they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Prudential added that its not practical for them as an organisation to contact all 
policyholders individually to check whether or not they want to proceed with an instruction. 
Mr T brought the complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Prudentials response. He 
described the adjustment as a penalty and said it wasnt fair for Prudential to take this 
money from him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that, in making 
the UPA, Prudential had acted in line with the terms of the fund. While she acknowledged it 
was unfortunate for Mr T, she didnt think Prudential had acted unfairly. Mr T wasnt happy 
with this and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T, Im not upholding their 
complaint. I know they feel theyve lost around £2,000 as a result of Prudentials actions, but 
Im satisfied Prudential havent acted unfairly  Ill explain why.
Prudential publish a leaflet which explains how their funds are managed. This describes the 
smoothing process, where an expected growth rate (EGR) is set once per quarter and the 
unit price usually grows smoothly at that rate. 
It also explains that Prudential also track the unsmoothed price of the fund  which is the 
total market value of the fund divided by the total number of units in the fund. If the 
smoothed price is higher than the unsmoothed price, there wouldnt be enough money in the 
fund to pay out if all unitholders surrendered their investments at the same time. The leaflet 
describes the process for a UPA which can happen when theres a significant gap between 
the smoothed price and the unsmoothed price:
We may decide to reset the smoothed price of a fund on a particular day, to protect [the 
fund]. 
If we decide to reset, the smoothed price of the affected fund would be adjusted to be the 
same value as the unsmoothed price on that working day. 
In mid-March 2020, financial markets fell significantly as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. 
This meant the unsmoothed value of the fund fell dramatically and Prudential needed to 
implement a UPA to protect the fund. 
UPAs normally happen at quarter dates (25 February, 25 May, 25 August and 25 November) 
and its rare for them to happen between. When I looked at the history of UPAs for this fund I 
can see that there hadnt been any between quarter dates in the last ten years. So I can 
understand why Mr T and his financial advisor werent expecting any significant movement in 
the surrender value - they requested the surrender well in advance of the next quarter date. 
But the terms and conditions allow Prudential to make a UPA at other times too when 
necessary. And its clear that they needed to do this in March 2020 due to the significant 
movements in the market at the time. Whilst I appreciate it was unexpected I dont think it 
was completely unforeseeable given the circumstances.
The timing of this UPA was really unfortunate for Mr T. He sent his surrender request in on 
18 March and it was received and processed by Prudential on 20 March  applying the 
20 March price. 
Prudential have shown us what the financial advisor would have seen when they requested 
the surrender value for the units. The screen would have said: The values are not 
guaranteed. They are based on previous days unit prices and are only intended to give an 
indication of the actual value. Similarly, the form signed by Mr and Mrs T to request the 
surrender states: If we receive all the relevant completed paperwork by mid-day on a 
working day, well normally process it at the price determined later that day; if we receive it 
after mid-day, well normally process it at the price determined on the next working day.
Based on this, I think its clear that Mr T couldnt expect to receive exactly what hed been 
quoted as a surrender value. And I think hed have known hed receive the price set on or 
around the 20 March  just not what that price would be.
Taking all this together, Im satisfied Prudential acted fairly in applying the UPA when 
calculating the surrender value for Mr and Mrs Ts units.
Mr Ts also said Prudential should have called him and given him the option to change his 
mind when they knew the UPA would reduce his surrender value by 10%. I can understand 
this perspective. But its not a regulatory or contractual requirement. And Prudential have 
said it wouldnt be practical given the number of customers they have. Im satisfied this is the 
case  Prudential would have had to contact a very large number of customers in a very short space of time and this would likely have had an impact on their ability to meet other 
contractual and regulatory requirements. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to say 
Prudential should have contacted Mr T.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to accept or reject my 
decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman