DRN-4029664
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice Grove Pension Solutions Limited gave to him concerning 
the transfer of funds from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Initially, Mr M was helped to make his complaint by professional representatives. For ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms; however, he is no 
longer represented.
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In late 2009 he 
approached Grove to discuss the possibility of releasing funds from his pension. 
Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. It also obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). Amongst other things 
Grove noted that:
Mr M was 52 years old and married with no dependent children.
He was self-employed with a net income of £750 a month. His wife was employed 
and took home earnings of £780 a month.
They owned two mortgage free properties both valued at £130,000. Mr Ms adult son 
lived in one of the properties rent free.
Mr and Mrs M had a personal loan, an overdraft and credit card debts of £17,500 
which they were repaying at £220 a month.
Mr Ms DB scheme pension had a cash equivalent transfer value of £110,442. It 
would pay him a yearly pension at age 60 of £6,558 together with a tax-free cash 
lump sum of £19,234.
Mr M told Grove that both of his parents had died before they were 50 and many of his 
extended family had also died young. Mr M said he wanted to release the maximum sum 
available from his pension to make his life easier. He was concerned he wouldnt live long 
enough to otherwise benefit from it. He said he would use the funds to pay his debts and 
reduce his monthly expenditure. He said he would save the rest and use it to help with day 
to day living expenses and as an emergency fund. 
Grove also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, and while generally he said 
he had an intermediate risk appetite, he told Grove that hed previously lost 25% of a stock-
market investment. As a result, he said he didn't wish to take any capital risk. 
Grove wrote to Mr M in January 2010. It said its recommendation was that he should not 
transfer out of his DB scheme. It said he had no need to release his pension funds early. It 
said his DB scheme was a very good pension with no risk borne by him.
Mr M wrote back to Grove. He said he understood Groves advice was against transferring 
out but he wanted it to carry on to release his pension.
Grove then sent Mr M its analysis and recommendations in a suitability report. It repeated 
that its recommendation was that he should not transfer his DB funds. Amongst other things 
it said:
Mr M had no need to transfer his pension at that time.
The scheme was very good and he would lose a lot by transferring.
Mr M had told Grove he knew how good the scheme was, but he wanted to make 
sure he benefited from it and it would make life easier for him.
If he transferred to a personal pension, it would not escalate in the same manner as 
his DB scheme.
The growth rate required to match the benefits from his DB scheme (the critical yield) 
was 12.1%. Grove said that this was impossible to achieve and showed just how 
good his DB scheme was, which was another reason not to transfer.
Mr M should be in no doubt that a transfer didnt represent good value and his 
pension provision would suffer as a result.
 
Grove explained the risks associated with transferring. It said it was very important 
that Mr M didnt drawdown more funds from his pension, and if he thought he might 
need to do that he should contact Grove in the first instance.
 
Groves fee for its advice and arranging the transfer was 7.5% of the fund value 
which was £8,283.
If Mr M decided to go ahead with the transfer, Grove recommended that he reinvest 
the funds into a named personal pension. And, as Mr M didnt wish to take any 
capital risk with the fund, it said he should invest the entire sum into a deposit 
account.
Mr M confirmed he wanted to go ahead with the transfer, which Grove arranged. He 
received a tax-free lump sum of £27,610. He took a further taxable sum of £5,367.
Some months later Mr M completed Groves customer feedback questionnaire. Amongst 
other things he indicated that:
He had fully understood Groves advice.
Grove had fully explained the disadvantages of pension release to him.
Grove didnt put him under any pressure to proceed with the transaction.
It had explained every detail.In the subsequent years Mr M continued to drawdown funds from his personal pension 
without consulting Grove. By 2018 he had depleted the entire fund.
Mr M complained to Grove in 2022. Amongst other things he said:
Grove should not have advised him to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
Grove didnt analyse the benefits from his scheme and compare those with a 
personal pension.
He didnt understand the benefits he would be giving up.
It hadn't made its charges clear.
Grove hadn't met its regulatory obligations when giving advice.
Grove didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that none of his complaint points were true and 
it had acted in line with regulations.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. He noted that Groves recommendation was that Mr M should not 
transfer out of his DB scheme. Mr M disagreed and another of our investigators considered 
the matter. He also thought Grove had acted fairly. Mr M didnt agree so the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms made a number of points. I've considered everything on 
file. But in this decision, I dont intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will 
focus on the key matters I see as being at the heart of Mr Ms complaint and the reasons for 
my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in 
Mr Ms best interests. 
Did Grove treat Mr M fairly?
Grove gave its advice in 2010. Mr M complained in 2022, over 12 years later. By the time 
Mr M complained his recollection was that Grove had positively advised him to transfer and 
that it hadn't given him warnings about the risks involved. Its well known that memories fade 
and are coloured by the passage of time and that appears to be the case here. I say that 
because the evidence on Groves file is absolutely clear that its advice was that Mr M should 
not transfer out of his DB scheme and that it gave him appropriate warnings about the risks 
and disadvantages of doing so. 
Ive noted that before Grove even began the information gathering process its early 
correspondence with Mr M advised him that transferring out of a DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for most people. It also gave him information about the risks involved in doing so.
It said that guaranteed benefits could be lost as a result. Its also apparent that during the 
fact-find process Grove looked at other ways, other than transferring out of the DB scheme, 
that Mr M could raise cash, including selling or renting out one of his properties. But Mr M 
didnt want to choose any of those options.
After completing its evidence gathering, Grove wrote to Mr M. Its letter was brief but it was 
clear in saying Mr M should not transfer out of his DB scheme. It said he had no need to do 
so and that his DB scheme was a good one and was risk free. It told Mr M it was closing its 
file.
Mr M then wrote back to Grove. He said he understood that Groves advice was not to 
transfer out of his DB scheme but asked it to continue and to arrange the release of his 
pension funds. I've seen no evidence, other than Mr Ms comments, that Grove put him 
under any pressure to do that. And, if he hadn't asked it to continue, I have no doubt that 
the matter would have finished there. But, because Mr M then asked Grove to proceed it 
continued with the process. 
From that point on Grove essentially treated Mr M as whats generally known in the 
financial services industry as an insistent client. Thats someone who decides to proceed 
with an investment against a financial adviser's advice. Although I note that Grove didnt 
ever actually use that term when dealing with Mr M. But, at the time of the advice there was 
no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. So, Grove wasnt 
under any obligation to use that term. However, there were COBS rules in the regulators 
Handbook which required Grove to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Grove to provide information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. And for the reasons I go on to explain I'm satisfied 
that, generally, Grove met those standards.After Mr M had asked Grove to continue to secure the release of his DB scheme funds it 
sent him its suitability report setting out its analysis. I think that was a flaw in Groves 
process. While it had already clearly told Mr M that its advice was that he shouldnt transfer 
out of the DB scheme, it would have been helpful if, before it decided to treat Mr M as 
insistent, it had given him all the information he needed in order to make an informed 
decision about what he would be losing by transferring out of the scheme. And that would 
include the detailed analysis included in its suitability report. 
In any event, Groves suitability report was clear that its recommendation was that Mr M 
should not transfer out of his DB scheme. It compared what he would receive by staying in 
the scheme against what he might receive by reinvesting funds in a personal pension. It said 
that a critical yield of 12.1% was impossible to achieve and that Mr M would be worse off in 
retirement by transferring. I think its advice was clear that Mr M shouldnt go ahead with the 
transfer, and I think that was suitable advice in the circumstances. 
The suitability report also said that as Mr M wanted to go ahead with the transfer, it 
recommended a named personal pension plan for him that wouldnt put his capital at risk. 
Mr M still had the opportunity at that point to end the process if he wanted to. That is, after 
reading the suitability report he was under no obligation to proceed with the transfer. But 
instead he completed and signed the relevant forms for the transfer to go ahead. And in 
those circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Grove to act on Mr Ms clear instruction 
that he wanted to go against its advice and transfer out of his DB scheme. Grove then 
arranged the transfer and Mr M not only received his tax-free cash lump sum but also took 
an extra taxable sum immediately from the plan. That was entirely his choice. And I think 
that demonstrates that, even if Groves process had been entirely flawless, Mr M would have 
gone ahead with the transfer anyway.
In response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint Mr M said that Grove had rung 
him numerous times asking him to go ahead with the transfer. But the evidence at the time 
doesn't support that. In fact, when Mr M completed Groves customer satisfaction survey, it 
asked if hed been put under any pressure to complete the transaction and he said that he 
hadn't been. He also said that every detail had been explained. So, given that was his 
evidence at the time, rather than what he remembered over 12 years later, I think thats 
more likely to be an accurate reflection of what actually happened.
Similarly, Mr M told us hed had some mental health issues at the time. He said hed suffered 
a breakdown some years before and was on strong medication. Im sorry to hear about 
Mr Ms ill health, but there's no evidence he brought this to Groves attention at the time 
even though they clearly discussed other aspects of his health. For example he told Grove 
about some time hed taken away from work because of short term physical illnesses. So if 
hed told Grove about his other problems I think it would have recorded those. But there's no 
evidence he made Grove aware of them.
Mr M also said if hed realised what he stood to lose he wouldnt have gone ahead. But Mr M 
clearly told Grove that he understood its advice, that he was aware of how good his own 
scheme was but he wanted to make sure he benefited from his pension then, as it would 
make his life easier. Grove also plainly told him that it would be impossible to match the 
benefits from the scheme by transferring. So, the evidence at the time is that Mr M was 
aware of the benefits he would be giving up but wanted to go ahead anyway as that would 
be of immediate advantage to him. 
It follows that I'm satisfied Grove made it clear to Mr M that he would lose valuable benefits 
by transferring out of his DB scheme. I'm also satisfied it made it clear that it felt doing so 
was not in his best interests. But, as Mr M was determined to go ahead, it proceeded on an insistent client basis. I think that was reasonable given Mr Ms apparent desire for tax-free 
cash at the time and to benefit from his pension while he was still fit enough to do so. So, I 
think Grove dealt with Mr M fairly and reasonably. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman