DRN-3106871
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing over
£600,000 which he sent to one of its customers as a result of fraud. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to 
both parties and by one of our ombudsmen who issued a jurisdiction decision. So, I wont 
repeat this at length. Ill only provide an overview of some key events here. 
Between 2011 and 2017 Mr M made several payments via cheques and bank transfers to a 
family member  who Ill refer to as Mr H. The family member held their account with 
Barclays. Mr M later learned he, along with several others (which included other family 
members) had been defrauded by Mr H. 
In 2019 Mr H was convicted of fraud and sent to prison in relation to this matter. It was after 
this Mr M complained to Barclays. His complaint primarily focussed on Barclays failure to 
appropriately monitor Mr Hs account activity. He believed Barclays had acted recklessly and 
negligently in the management of Mr Hs account. He feels a competent bank ought to have 
identified the activity as a misappropriation of funds and had it done so early on, it wouldve 
not only prevented his loss but that of others too. He was also unhappy with how Barclays 
responded when he notified them of the fraud.    
One of our ombudsmen issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why our service could only 
consider how Barclays responded to Mr Ms notification of fraud in June 2019. In summary, 
he said our service can only consider a complaint brought by an eligible complainant. He 
explained, the relevant relationship which allows our service to consider a complaint brought 
by victims of authorised push payment (APP) fraud about the bank that received their money 
wasnt retrospective. It came into effect on 31 January 2019 and only applies in relation to 
a complaint concerning an act or omission which occurs on or after that date. It also didnt 
cover payments made by cheque. As events such as the monitoring of account activity and 
prevention of Mr Ms loss all took place before 31 January 2019, he concluded, Mr M wasnt 
an eligible complainant in relation to that aspect of his complaint. 
Our investigator then considered the part of Mr Ms complaint we did have the power to look 
into. She concluded that Barclays response to Mr Ms notification of fraud was reasonable 
and there were no funds remaining that it couldve returned.     
Mr M remained unhappy. So, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, theres not much more I can add to what the investigator has already said, 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. I dont doubt the significant impact being a victim in this way 
has had on him. Particularly due to Mr H being someone he trusted. I note in his submission 
Mr M reiterates his frustration that as a responsible bank, Barclays ought to have identified 
the unusual and suspicious activity on Mr Hs account. I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that 
Barclays have failed to accept any responsibility for its actions or rather lack of action. But as 
Ive explained to Mr M, unfortunately, this is not something I can comment on.  
Mr M told Barclays that hed been defrauded by Mr H in June 2019. But by this time, the 
funds that hed paid into Mr Hs account had already been spent. Im satisfied that Barclays 
response to Mr Ms notification of fraud was appropriate and it correctly advised him to raise 
the matter with his own bank. I dont think there were any failings at this point by Barclays 
that prevented Mr M recovering his money.
Barclays took just over a month to provide Mr M with a response to his notification of fraud. I 
consider its £75 compensatory offer for distress and inconvenience caused by this delay to 
be fair.  
Im genuinely sorry to hear Mr M has lost such a significant sum of money but Im not going 
to tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Ultimately, I dont think there 
were any failings by Barclays when responding to Mr Ms notification of fraud which caused 
or contributed to his loss, so it follows that I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund Mr M the 
money he has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman