DRN-4413561
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about First Response Finance Ltd. He says they acted irresponsibly in 
lending to him because of his credit history. Mr Ms complaint has been brought to us by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with First Response to finance the 
purchase of a vehicle. He borrowed £4,995  the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement 
required Mr M to make 36 monthly repayments of £225.34. Although a couple of direct 
debits bounced, Mr M made up these payments within the following days and didnt run into 
arrears at any time.
In August 2021, Mr M settled the first agreement and took out a second hire purchase 
agreement, also with First Response. This time, he borrowed £5,999.93  again, this was 
the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement required Mr M to make 36 monthly repayments 
of £268.20. At the time of his complaint, Mr M had made all of his repayments on time on 
this agreement.
In February 2023, Mr M complained to First Response. He said theyd provided loans at 
times that he was experiencing financial difficulties, and therefore the loans were 
unaffordable.
In response, First Response reviewed both their lending decisions. In respect of the first 
decision they said theyd assessed Mr Ms income and expenditure before deciding to lend 
to him. To do so, theyd checked Mr Ms income to a pay slip, taken into account all outgoing 
payments from his credit file, and asked Mr M how much he was paying for his housing and 
council tax. They made general assumptions about his other expenses using Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) data and calculated an overall monthly disposable income of 
around £590. They deducted 25% for unknown or unexpected expenditure and arrived at an 
affordability capacity of £442. The monthly payment was £225. And there were no 
foreseeable changes that might suggest the repayments might become unsustainable. They 
added that although Mr Ms credit file demonstrated difficulties in paying for credit in 2017, 
this improved during the two years that followed.
In respect of the second decision, First Response said theyd carried out the same checks 
theyd done previously. At this stage Mr Ms earnings had increased and they calculated an 
affordability capacity of £627. They said Mr Ms credit file showed hed had some difficulties 
in maintaining payments to creditors in 2020 but when questioned hed said this was due to 
the pandemic and they were satisfied hed taken responsible actions to resolve this.
In summary, First Response said theyd carried out appropriate checks before lending to 
Mr M and were satisfied the repayments were affordable for him. They also hadnt seen any 
evidence that Mr M had encountered financial difficulties throughout the term of the 
agreements.  
Mr M remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators 
looked into it. He said thought First Response should have done more to check Mr Ms 
expenditure but if they had, theyd have found the loans were affordable for him. So he didnt 
think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M replied to say even though he agreed the 
loans were affordable he still felt First Response had acted irresponsibly in lending to him 
because of his credit status at the time. He said hed applied to several other car finance 
companies at the time and been declined. He asked for a decision  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint  for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why below.
Mr M hasnt disputed the affordability of the loan. Even in response to our investigators view 
he said he could afford it. Instead he thinks First Response shouldnt have lent to him 
because of his credit history. But taking this position would mean denying credit to anyone 
who is rebuilding their financial standing, which wouldnt be fair. 
Instead, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. In effect this means considering whether a customer is likely 
to be able to meet their financial commitments (including the repayments under the 
proposed agreement) and their non-discretionary expenditure out of their income each 
month. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case  so its not always necessary to carry out a full income and 
expenditure analysis  it will depend on the circumstances. 
Did First Response carry out proportionate checks?
In relation to both loans First Response said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Ms credit file; and
checked Mr Ms payslips to verify his income;
spoke to Mr M to discuss his credit file and his housing costs; 
carried out an income and expenditure assessment to assess his disposable income.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on factors such as the size and 
term of the loan, the cost of credit, and what First Response found in the process of doing 
the checks. In both cases, the loans were relatively small, and they were for three years, so 
not long term. However, the cost of credit was high, and when First Response looked at 
Mr Ms credit file they found hed struggled with previous credit on both occasions.
But First Response checked Mr Ms income, and they spoke to him to discuss his credit 
commitments and his housing costs  which are for most people the most significant monthly 
costs. They also obtained Mr Ms monthly credit payments from his credit file. And they used 
ONS data to estimate Mr Ms other expenditure. CONC allows firms to use statistical data 
unless they have reasonable cause to suspect that a customers non-discretionary 
expenditure is significantly higher than whats shown in the data. When First Response 
asked Mr M about the adverse indicators in his credit report he told them hed not managed 
his money well before he got married. And, in respect of the later lending decision, hed 
struggled for a short time because of the pandemic. I havent seen enough to say First Response shouldnt have relied on statistical data, particularly as they used Mr Ms own 
estimates of his housing costs.
When First Response put all this information into their income and expenditure analysis, they 
arrived at a monthly disposable income figure of around £589 at the time of the first loan, 
and about £836 at the time of the second loan. Both times, First Response deducted 25% to 
allow for unforeseen expenditure, leaving them with net figures of £442 and £627 
respectively. The monthly repayments Mr M needed to make still left him with a surplus of 
well over £200 and then over £350 each month for any additional emergency, unforeseen 
and discretionary spending. 
Taking all this together Im satisfied First Responses checks were proportionate. They 
carried out a careful and substantiated analysis of Mr Ms income and expenditure and 
obtained explanations for his previous credit history. I cant say they should have done 
anything further.
Did First Response make a fair lending decision?
As Ive set out above, First Responses analysis showed Mr Ms income significantly 
exceeded his non-discretionary and committed expenditure. Once the new agreements were 
taken into account, they expected Mr M would be left with a monthly surplus of £200 after 
the first agreement, and £350 after the second agreement. On that basis Im satisfied First 
Response made a fair lending decision. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about First Response Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman