DRN-2883671
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the standard of the repairs carried out on her car by AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AA) following a claim on her car insurance.
What happened
Mrs S was involved in a road traffic collision and claimed on her car insurance. She says her 
car hasnt been properly repaired by AA and its agents. In particular, Mrs S says:
She can still see where the accident happened on the passenger side of the car. 
There are new scratches on the drivers side that werent there before.
The car was making an awful noise when it was returned to her.
Her replacement front tyres were losing pressure.
Mrs S took her car back to AAs agent but it didnt hear the noise Mrs S had heard and was 
unable to find a fault. Mrs Ss tyres were tested but no faults were found.
When Mrs S complained to AA about the repairs, it didnt uphold her complaint. It said its 
agent had carried out the repair and rectification works in a timely way and had dealt with the 
concerns Mrs S had raised.
So Mrs S brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it asked AA to arrange 
an independent inspection of Mrs Ss car, to see if any more rectification work was needed. 
AA did this. The independent assessor didnt think AA needed to do anything else.
So the investigator who looked at Mrs Ss complaint didnt uphold it. Especially given the 
independent assessors report, he didnt think AA had acted unreasonably in not upholding 
Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the independent assessors report and with our 
investigators view. She has asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether or not AA has acted fairly and reasonably in carrying out the 
repairs to Mrs S car, which should be to an acceptable standard. To do this Ive looked at 
the facts and all the available information I have, including experts reports. In brief, I can see 
that:
When Mrs S raised concerns the repairs, AAs agent took her car back. It couldnt 
hear the noise Mrs S described or find a fault. 
So AA gave Mrs S various options  including sending the car to the manufacturer for 
more tests (which, however, it said Mrs S would have to pay for herself, if a problem 
was found that was unrelated to her claim). 
Mrs S instead chose to take her car back and get another garage to look at it. The 
report Mrs S got from that garage doesnt mention a noise (which I think may no 
longer have been a concern for her). It refers to marks and blemishes on the drivers 
door and passengers side. It doesnt say what mightve caused these marks and 
blemishes.
The independent report we asked AA to get is more detailed than Mrs S. Both Mrs S 
and AA have seen it, so I dont need to go through the details here. But it concludes, 
for both the drivers and the passengers side of the car, that: the light scratches 
have been caused since the repairs have been completed. It also says a concern 
Mrs S had more recently raised about a windscreen water leak is also unrelated to 
the incident or subsequent repairs.
I know Mrs S disputes the findings in this report. But, apart from the report from her garage 
(which, as Ive mentioned, doesnt say what mightve caused the damage to the paintwork), 
Mrs S has given us no expert evidence to contradict the independent assessors 
conclusions. 
Mrs S also says the assessor who wrote the report gave her different conclusions on the day 
of the inspection. I cant comment on that, not having been there. All I can say is the report 
itself clearly says AA doesnt need to do anything more, and gives reasons why.
Mrs S is also concerned the assessors report may be biased, because AA paid for it. The 
assessor was from a firm of consultant engineers and insurance assessors that is 
independent of AA. And, as Ive already mentioned, the report is something we asked AA to 
get to help move Mrs S complaint forward.
As Ive said, Mrs S hasnt given us any expert evidence to support her view that the repairs 
werent up to standard. And I think the independent assessors report is persuasive. Mrs S 
says shes spent a lot of time and trouble dealing with the issues shes found with the 
repairs. But Ive seen nothing to make me think AA has acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
carrying them out. That means it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs S complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman