DRN-3119175
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the service she received from Mortgage Express when she was 
trying to redeem her mortgage. Mortgage Express issued incorrect redemption statements, 
the first of which led to the redemption funds being returned, so the redemption of her 
mortgage was delayed by many months. Arrears were also incorrectly recorded on her 
account, the information about which was passed to credit reference agencies, and that took 
a number of months to be corrected which Ms A says led to her being turned down for car 
finance.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
Its not in dispute that Mortgage Express made mistakes. It has admitted that and agreed 
to pay compensation. So all I need to decide is if the compensation Mortgage Express has 
agreed to pay is fair. Whilst Ms A has raised various issues about redemption statements, 
Im satisfied the later issues wouldnt have come about if the initial redemption statement 
(that led to the failed redemption on 13 March 2020) hadnt been wrong. To that end, what I 
need to decide is how to put Ms A back in the position  as far as possible  she would 
have been in had her mortgage been redeemed on 13 March 2020.
If nothing had gone wrong then Ms A would have redeemed her mortgage on 13 March 
2020. I say that because the incorrect redemption statement was sent to her solicitors on 
4 March, and the solicitor paid the amount stated on there on 13 March. So it seems most 
likely that if a correct figure had been provided on the 4 March statement, then the full 
funds would have been received on 13 March.
That means any LPA Receiver costs charged after 13 March should be refunded to Ms A. 
Mortgage Express has provided a copy of Ms As mortgage transaction history, and Ms A 
provided a statement from the Receiver. I can see after that date that the following LPA 
Receiver costs were incurred:
£61.60 on 24 April 2020.
£61.60 on 28 July 2020.
£126 letting fee deducted from the rental receipt on 30 April 2020.
Mortgage Express should also refund the interest incurred since 13 March as Ms A 
wouldnt have been charged that had nothing gone wrong.
There are no grounds for me to order Mortgage Express to refund the full mortgage 
payments made as anything that wasnt interest (and Ive already said Mortgage Express 
must refund the interest) would have come off the mortgage debt so Ms A paid a lower 
amount when she came to redeem the mortgage.
Ms A has said she was unable to get car finance due to information recorded on her credit 
file in error, but Ive not seen anything to show that if nothing had gone wrong here then 
Ms A would have been able to obtain that finance. Our investigator previously said the 
same and Ms A hasnt subsequently brought forth any evidence to the contrary, so I cant 
uphold this point.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent punitive. 
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Having considered 
everything Im satisfied the compensation of £400 put forward by our investigator is fair.
 
Mortgage Express accepted my provisional findings. Ms A  despite reminders of the 
deadline  didnt respond.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Ms A told us about the immense personal, financial and emotional inconvenience they 
caused me for four months due to their negligence and it is clear this matter dragged on for 
a number of months, with later errors compounding the initial mistake. Ive considered all this 
very carefully, along with our normal approach to awards for distress and inconvenience 
(https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience). 
Having done so, Im satisfied this fits towards the lower end of the band An award of up to 
£750, and having thought about it again I still agree with our investigator that an award of 
£400 is appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Mortgage Express to:
Refund £249.20 in LPA Receiver costs, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from 
13 March 2020 to the date of settlement.
Refund the mortgage interest charged between 13 March 2020 and the date the 
mortgage was redeemed, plus interest on that sum at 8% simple per annum from the 
date the interest was charged to the date of settlement.
Pay £400 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman