DRN-2907415
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) when he 
voluntarily terminated (VT) his car finance agreement. He is also unhappy he was charged 
for damages to the car. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr R entered in a 37 month personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement with 
PSA for a new car. The cars cash price was £9,465. The monthly payments were £123 
followed by an optional final payment of £4,326.
In October 2019, Mr R asked about voluntarily terminating (VT) the agreement. In order to 
do so, PSA said the car would need to be returned and he was required to pay half of the 
total amount owed under the agreement, which was £5,185. To reach this point, Mr R 
needed to pay £251. They also advised to return the car he would have to take it to one of 
their drop off points or pay a £79 collection fee. Mr R complained that this collection fee 
wasnt made clear to him when he entered into the agreement. 
PSA investigated the complaint and sent their response in January 2020. They said the 
terms of the agreement set out that the return of the car is at the consumers risk and cost. 
Mr R was unhappy with the amount of time it had taken for PSA to respond to his complaint, 
he said this meant he had to pay two further monthly instalments. 
In February 2020, PSA re-issued a quote to VT. They confirmed as Mr R had now paid half 
the total amount payable and there were no arrears, he didnt need to pay anything further to 
VT. Mr R confirmed he wanted to proceed and paid the collection fee.
Due to impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the collection of the car was delayed and Mr R said 
he had to call PSA on several occasions. The car was later collected on 4 May 2020 and 
inspected on 14 May 2020 as part of PSAs return process. PSA said damage was found to 
the car and Mr R had to pay £125.
Overall, Mr R complained about the following to PSA:
1. He was required to pay £79 for the car to be collected and this hadnt been brought 
to attention when he entered into the agreement;
2. There was a delay in collecting the car which meant he had to pay two additional 
contractual payments. He said he was also given conflicting information about the 
collection. 
3. He was charged £125 for damages to the car but when it was collected he was told 
by the agents there was no damage.
In response to above complaint points, in summary PSA said:
1. Based on the terms of the agreement, when the car is returned it must be in a good 
condition at the consumers risk and cost. They offered options for the car to be 
returned, one option was free and the other option incurred a fee of £79;
2. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic there were delays in collecting the car and due to the 
availability of their agents led to Mr R being given different information;
3. The agents who collected the car shouldnt have assessed it for damage as it wasnt 
their role to do so. As a gesture of goodwill, they would waive the £125 charge for 
damages but without admission of liability.
Unhappy with their response, Mr R referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They concluded PSA were entitled to charge a 
collection fee and given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the delays collecting the car 
werent unreasonable. Lastly, in regards to the charges for damage, they said this point had 
already been looked at by an alternative dispute resolution, the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). They determined Mr R hadnt been financially disadvantaged 
so it wasnt appropriate to consider this complaint point further. 
Mr R disagreed. He raised a number of points including he wasnt made aware of the alleged 
damage to the car, the damage was caused by the collection agents, the collection fee 
wasnt justified given the amount of time the collection took, amongst over things. Overall he 
maintained he wasnt happy with the service received by PSA throughout the VT process. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe PSA has done enough to put things right.  
At this point, I know Ive summarised the complaint in a lot less detail than both parties. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
The collection fee
The terms of the agreement which was signed by Mr R say: 
 Should you not wish to exercise your option to purchase the vehicle you must deliver the 
vehicle to us in good condition at any address that we may reasonably specify in the UK or 
the Isle of Man. The vehicle must be delivered at a date no later than the date when the final 
payment is due.
It also says the car should be returned at the consumers own risk and cost. Although I 
accept this particular term may not have been brought to Mr Rs attention when he entered 
into the agreement, Im not persuaded it wouldve been a determining factor in his decision. I 
say this because I think a reasonable person would expect if they want to return the car at 
end of an agreement, its likely to be their responsibility to do so. 
Additionally, I can see PSA sent letters to Mr R which outlined the VT process, one in 
October 2019 and the other in February 2020. PSA outlined the options to return the car, 
one at no cost to with a list of several drop off points and another option which incurred a 
fee of £79 where the car would be collected at a location of Mr Rs choice. Based on the above, Im satisfied PSA fairly applied the term in this case. It was up to Mr R 
to decide which collection option he preferred and he chose to have it collected as the 
nearest drop of point was approximately 30 minutes drive away. So I find PSA were entitled 
to charge a fee for this service. I also note Mr Rs comments that he didnt believe the £79 
collection fee was justified given the amount of time it took to collect the car. However I must 
highlight that its a flat fee, irrespective of how long it takes, it isnt based on time. I dont find 
the fee to be excessive or unreasonable.
I understand due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, there were delays in collecting the 
car this was due to the nationwide lockdown imposed by the UK government on 23 March 
2020. For many businesses, they were required to temporarily close and for those that 
remained open, their operations and resources were negatively impacted. In this case PSA 
said their usual collection agents had suspended their operations which led to delays so they 
had to employ a third party to help. Mr Rs car was collected by one of these third party 
agents. I acknowledge the situation is likely to have led to confusion and conflicting 
information given to Mr R and I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for him. However I 
must bear in mind these were unprecedented times so I can understand the reasons as to 
why this happened and PSA also acknowledge this. Considering these wider circumstances, 
I dont think PSA acted unreasonably.
I note Mr Rs comments about the amount of time it had taken PSA to respond to his 
complaint about the collection fee and he was required to pay two further instalments. 
However as per the relevant rules, PSA had up to eight weeks to investigate the complaint 
and issue their final response. This equates to two monthly payments which Mr R wouldve 
had to pay in order to pay half of the agreement. He wasnt charged the monthly instalments 
for March and April 2020 whilst waiting for the car to be collected yet he was still able to use 
it so I cant say he was financially disadvantaged.
Damage charges
The terms of the agreement say:
In the event that you do not return the vehicle to us in good condition as defined in clause 
18, you will liable for the costs of any repairs or maintenance required to be carried out. 
The agreement outlines different car parts and what wouldnt be considered to be good 
condition so Ive taken this into account. Ive also considered the guidance published by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry guidance which 
sets out what is considered fair wear and tear when new cars are returned at the end of their 
agreements. 
Mr R said when the car was collected, the agent provided him with a receipt stating that 
there was no notable damage so I can understand why he was shocked when he was later 
told he had to pay £125 for damages. PSA said it wasnt the agents role to assess the car 
only to collect it. They accept Mr R shouldnt have been told by the third party agents that 
there was no damage because the car had to be fully appraised. I note the VT letters also 
outlined after the car is collected it would undergo a more detailed inspection by an 
independent third party. So I believe PSA made Mr R aware that this would happen. 
The car was fully appraised on 14 May 2020 and Ive seen a copy of the inspection report. It 
said the rear bumper panel is mis-aligned (£50) and there is dull paint on the corner of the 
rear bumper (£75). 
Misaligned panel- PSAs agreement terms say the misalignment of parts caused by misuse, 
collision, impact or substandard repairs is deemed abnormal wear. Having looked at the 
pictures within the inspection report, it appears the panels are slightly misaligned but in my opinion not to a significant degree and there is no suggestion it was a result of misuse, 
collision or substandard repairs so I dont find PSA are entitled to charge for it. 
Dull paint  The terms say surface areas which have been refinished/replaced and do not 
match the original colour are deemed abnormal. I dont find the pictures in the report to be 
particularly clear to show where the dull paint is located. Therefore Im not persuaded PSA 
has sufficiently demonstrated the original colour is mis-matched to the extent it could be 
considered beyond fair wear and tear so I dont believe they can charge for this. 
Based on my findings on the damage, I would usually ask for these charges to be removed. 
However in this case, this has already been done. PSA waived these charges given the 
actions of the collection agent. However they did so as a gesture of goodwill without 
admission of liability but for the reasons explained above, I dont believe they were entitled to 
charge it in the first place. Nevertheless as this charge has already been waived, I wont be 
asking PSA to do anything further. 
Mr R said he believes PSA applied these charges as a means of making money and its a 
scam. I must stress, it isnt my role to punish PSA, that is the role of the financial regulator. 
As per their terms, PSA are entitled to charge for damages but in this case, I dont think they 
applied this term fairly. Although I recognise Mr Rs frustrations about this, given the damage 
charges were waived a week after he was told he needed to pay for it, I dont believe further 
remedy or compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman