DRN-3729582
The complaint
Ms Q complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has treated her 
unfairly with the decision made on her buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Ms Qs home was damaged following an escape of water from her washing machine. In 
October 2021, Ms Q smelt burning from the washing machine and took steps to stop a fire. 
She turned the power for the machine off, emptied the excess water from the load and 
managed to open the door to remove the contents. This resulted in water escaping onto the 
floor from the machine which caused damage. 
Lloyds didnt accept the claim when it was first raised. It questioned whether the damage 
could have been avoided when the machine was drained and opened. But it later agreed, 
following a complaint about the claims decision brought to this service, to accept Ms Qs 
claim for the damage caused. 
Lloyds sent its loss assessor on 23 February 2022 to assess the damage caused as a result 
of the escape of water. The loss assessor was satisfied the damage was contained to the 
kitchen and no other areas of the house had been affected. 
On 2 March 2022 Lloyds sent Ms Q its quote to repair the damage. It felt the only work 
needed was the removal and replacement of the laminate and beading from the kitchen 
floor. And some minor redecoration around the appliances that would need to be removed 
and reinstated once the laminate floor was replaced. 
Ms Q responded to say she is unable to arrange the repairs to the house herself. She made 
the claim because she needed Lloyds to arrange and complete these as soon as possible 
and it was this that she needed it to do. But she explained as well as the damage to the 
kitchen, she felt other parts of the house including the lounge had been damaged by the 
escape of water. And she had lost contents items that had been ruined when used to help 
soak up the water as well as the contents of the machine when it broke. These items had to 
be disposed of and she asked Lloyds to pay for these.
Lloyds sent a second loss assessor to visit Ms Qs property on 10 May 2022 to assess the 
damage as Ms Q disagreed that Lloyds had correctly identified the work needed. The 
second visit agreed with the previous assessment of damage. They felt the only room in the 
house damaged was the kitchen and anything else needed was unrelated to the claim.
Lloyds made an offer to cover the cost of the contents items claimed for on 14 July 2022. 
This offer also set out the work Lloyds and its contractors would carry out in the kitchen as 
Lloyds recognised Ms Q did not feel she was able to arrange these works herself. Lloyds 
said, because the kitchen would be out of use for two days while the works took place, it 
would arrange local dog friendly accommodation for Ms Q and her dogs. Or it could provide 
a cash settlement to Ms Q for her to arrange this herself. It also reminded her that it could 
cash settle the entire claim if she wished.
Ms Q said she couldnt accept this offer due to the time that had passed since the escape of 
water. She feels her house and its condition has deteriorated significantly as a direct result 
of the work being left incomplete for so long. She has expressed serious concerns about 
vermin within her house, attracted by the damp and water she feels is pooling underneath 
from the escape of water. This is impacting her health and underlying conditions and the 
presence of mice and rats in the property is not only risking damage to her health, but also 
her pet dogs.
Our investigator looked at Ms Qs complaint and said that she felt the offer made by Lloyds 
to settle the claim was fair. She explained what Ms Qs policy provided cover for and that in 
short, that the cover didnt extend to all of the damage she wanted to be fixed.
Ms Q disagreed with the assessment. She explained the stress of this claim and the 
complaint has resulted in her being hospitalised and she has now needed to give up her pet 
rabbits and her dogs are unable to stay with her in hospital. She feels Lloyds has delayed 
this claim and not accepted the damage it should have. She feels its actions have led to the 
damage in the house becoming worse. The impact of living in a property which she says is 
infested with rats and mice has led to her becoming extremely unwell with the distress. She 
doesnt think it is fair Lloyds has allowed this to go on for as long as it has and let this 
escalate.
Because Ms Q disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Q has provided a large amount of information on her complaint and claim. She has set 
out in detail the impact this claim has had on her health and Im sorry to see that she is 
unwell as a result of it. And that shes had to give up some of her pets and is unable to be 
with her dogs while in hospital with the worry of their health clearly adding to Ms Qs distress.
The crux of this complaint is whether Lloyds has acted fairly with the settlement it has 
offered for Ms Qs claim. Any delay in it accepting the claim in the first instance was 
assessed under a separate reference and because of this, Ive focused on Lloyds actions 
since the claim was accepted.
Has Lloyds acted fairly with the settlement offered?
Ms Qs insurance policy, like all, doesnt provide cover for everything. The policy document 
sets out exactly what is and isnt covered and as our investigator highlighted, some of what 
Ms Q feels Lloyds should be helping her to put right is excluded. 
Ive not set out the policy wording as I dont think it is needed, our investigator has provided 
this before. But damage caused by vermin, which includes rodents or insects is not covered. 
So while Ms Q has concerns about damage being caused to her property because of rats 
and mice at the moment, any damage caused wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Ms Q feels the rodents are in her property because of the lack of repair work and stagnant 
water lying under the floor. Although I understand why Ms Q has this concern, Im not 
persuaded that the problems she says she now has with rodents can be said to be caused 
by the escape of water damage.
The moisture readings for both the floor and wall of the kitchen, taken when the loss assessor visited in February 2022 show that the property was dry with both readings being 
under 12% moisture levels (generally a reading of between 5-12% can be expected in a dry 
property). 
Ms Q has also explained that she used towels to soak up the water when it escaped  these 
later had to be disposed of. But with her taking this action to reduce  the water ingress and 
the moisture reading results, I think its likely she managed to remove most of the water.
Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that the cause of the vermin problem that Ms Q feels 
she now has is the result of the escape of water. But I understand her concerns about the 
risk to her health with these and Id expect her to contact her local council to arrange pest 
control to assist with this and their removal.
Ms Q has explained that the property was ready to be sold over a year ago before the 
escape of water. The escape of water has resulted in damp across the whole property and 
deterioration and damage has been caused throughout because of the vermin problem. But, 
Ive not seen anything to support that the damage caused by the escape of water was not 
isolated to the kitchen. And as explained above, damage caused by vermin is excluded from 
the cover of the policy. So I think the offer for work to be completed is reflective of what is 
required based on the damage identified.
Ms Q has raised concerns about the replacement laminate and whether the laminate in the 
kitchen will match what is throughout the property. Her policy provides cover for matching 
sets which could extend to the flooring. But at this point, Ive not seen anything to show that 
the flooring flows, without divide or barrier, through the kitchen to other rooms. But Id expect 
Lloyds to consider this when completing the repair work if an exact replacement cannot now 
be found.
Overall, I think Lloyds has made a fair offer to Ms Q to put things right. It will arrange for her 
to be placed in alternative accommodation when the kitchen is out of use for two days when 
the work is completed. It doesnt need to provide alternative accommodation beyond this as 
the property is still habitable at the moment based on the insured damage. And it has offered 
a cash settlement for the damaged contents items claimed for. Anything else she has 
claimed for is not covered under the policy and because of this, I dont think it needs to offer 
anything further.
Has Lloyds caused any delay with the claim?
Lloyds initially assessed the damage in Ms Qs home at the end of February 2022. It set out 
in response to this, what it felt it needed to do to put things right. It based this on the level of 
damage identified by its loss assessor and what the policy covered. It Provided Ms Q with an 
offer to cash settle the claim on 2 March based on this assessment.
When Ms Q disagreed with the assessment and explained why she didnt want a cash 
settlement but the damage repaired, Lloyds reviewed what it could do and offer. It had the 
property reinspected and it didnt find any further damage beyond what it originally included 
in the scope of works. But it accepted that the damaged contents claimed for should be 
covered too. It provided an updated offer on 14 July 2022.
As Ive explained above, I think Lloyds has acted fairly when reaching the decision it has on 
this claim and the offer made. And although I think it could have provided a revised offer 
sooner, I think it acted fairly getting a second opinion on the level of damage to Ms Qs 
property.
Ms Q has declined to accept the offer made by Lloyds and this has resulted in the work to the kitchen not having been completed. Ms Q will need to decide whether to accept its offer 
to complete the repairs or take a cash settlement. 
I appreciate at the moment Ms Q is unwell in hospital as a result of this claim and arranging 
the repair when she is not there might not be achievable. It might be that she chooses to use 
a representative to help her deal with this and Id expect Lloyds to continue to offer what 
support it can to bring this claim to a close.
Im sorry to hear how unwell Ms Q is and the impact this claim has had on her. But I think 
Lloyds has made a fair offer to settle her claim and it is now for Ms Q to decide if she wishes 
to accept this or not. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Ms Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman