DRN-3930858
The complaint
Mr F complains about QIC Europe Lt (QIC) declining part of a claim under his pet insurance 
policy for treatment of his cat.
References to QIC include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr Fs cat had a broken tooth, so he took it to a vet. who said the tooth 
needed to be removed. The estimated cost was £250  including a scale and polish. When 
the vet came to remove the tooth, they noticed two other teeth that needed to be removed. 
They did so at the same time as removing the broken tooth (at no extra cost). Mr F 
subsequently made a claim for the cost of the treatment  (two invoices totalling £387.09).
However, QIC wouldnt accept the claim in full, as they said the policy didnt cover the two 
additional teeth taken out (due to root canal issues) nor the scale and polish. So they asked 
the vet for what the cost of a scale and polish would be on its own, so they could deduct the 
amount from the claim. They subsequently deducted £169.73 for the cost of the two 
additional teeth removed and the scale and polish, as well as the £99 policy excess. This left 
a net payment of £118.36.
Mr F was unhappy about QIC deducting the amount for the two additional teeth and scale 
and polish, so he complained to QIC. They didnt uphold the complaint. In their final 
response they said theyd deducted the £169.73 for the scale and polish and the two teeth 
extracted that werent broken (the broken tooth was deemed to have been caused by 
trauma, which would be covered under the policy). And the figure of £169.73 was provided 
by the vet, so QIC said it was correct.
Mr F then complained to this service, unhappy at QIC deducting the cost of a scale and 
polish from the cost of treatment. He said he could only pay the vet for the cost of a tooth 
extraction including a scale and polish (not for a tooth removal without a scale and polish). 
He also thought it unfair QIC deducted the cost of a scale and polish when the vet removed 
the two additional teeth at no extra cost. He thought QIC should cover the full cost of the 
treatment (the tooth removal and the scale and polish).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, concluding QIC didnt need to take any 
further action. He noted the wording of an exclusion under the veterinary fees section of the 
policy excluded preventative treatment, which would include scale and polish. Mr Fs vet had 
confirmed the cost (£150). On the extraction of the two additional teeth, the same exclusion 
meant treatment not caused by accident also wouldnt be covered  so removal of the 
additional teeth wouldnt be covered. So, QIC were acting in line with the policy terms and 
conditions by deducting the cost (as notified by the vet) of the scale and polish and extraction 
of the two additional teeth. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, he said he didnt have any option for him to have the damaged 
tooth extraction without the scale and polish (which he accepted was a preventative 
treatment) as it was included within the item for the extraction cost (there was no separate 
scale and polish cost). And he wasnt claiming for the cost of a scale and polish. Also, QIC 
hadnt asked the vet for what the percentage of the total cost of treatment would be 
accounted for by the scale and polish. Hed taken out the policy in good faith, thinking that if 
he made a claim the only deduction would be the excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr F. 
The key issue in Mr Fs complaint is whether QIC acted fairly in deducting the imputed cost 
of the removal of two teeth and the scale and polish (based on a figure provided by the vet). 
Mr F says it was unfair to make the deduction as the cost of the scale and polish was 
included within the extraction of the broken tooth  (and the two other teeth were removed at 
no extra cost). QIC say the policy doesnt cover the extraction of teeth not as the result of 
trauma, nor scale and polish. As the figure for these elements was provided by the vet that 
provided the treatment, then they correctly deducted the amount. 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence. Starting with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and associated documents, QIC havent set out the specific terms and 
conditions of the policy that mean removal of teeth (not because of trauma) and scale and 
polish arent covered. So, Ive looked at the policy documents. In the policy wording 
document, theres The Benefit Table which (under a heading of Cover and sub heading 
Vets Fees theres the following line item:
- Dentistry as a direct result of an accident or injury 
Theres also a further policy wording under a heading Veterinary Fee Exclusions which 
states:
We will not be liable for:
(i) The cost of routine, preventative or cosmetic dental or gum Treatment; or 
scaling and polishing teeth; or dentistry caused by an illness; or the cost of 
dentistry except as a result of an Accident.
This indicates dentistry that isnt a direct result of an accident (or injury) isnt covered. So, as 
the cause of the broken tooth was deemed to be trauma, then the extraction of the broken 
tooth would reasonably be held to fall under the accident or injury wording. But removal of 
two other teeth (due to root canal issues) wouldnt come under this heading. Nor would scale 
and polish (as it wouldnt be considered treatment as a direct result of an accident or injury 
and is specifically included under the exclusion set out above). Its also accepted that a scale 
and polish is a preventative treatment (to mitigate the risk of infection) which is also excluded 
from cover under the policy.
So, Ive concluded QIC acted reasonably in saying the policy wouldnt cover the cost of 
removing the two additional teeth and the scale and polish. 
Ive then considered whether QIC acted reasonably in asking the vet to provide the imputed 
cost of these two treatments, and then deducting them from the claim value. I accept that the 
vets invoices dont itemise the individual elements of treatment that would make it clear the 
cost of removing the two additional teeth and the scale and polish. Rather, they are included within the overall cost of treatment. But I dont think its unreasonable to think that  had the 
vet simply removed the two additional teeth in isolation (or simply carried out a scale and 
polish)  this wouldnt have taken time and attracted a cost. 
Given these costs wouldnt have been covered under the policy, then Ive concluded it 
wasnt unreasonable for QIC to ask the vet to provide an imputed cost of the two treatments, 
and then to deduct the figure from the overall claim value (along with the policy excess). 
Mr F says he wasnt given the option of having the tooth extraction without the scale and 
polish. While true, this doesnt alter the fact that even if he had, it is likely to have been at a 
lower cost  which is effectively what QIC applying the deduction amounts to. On the point 
about QIC not asking for the percentage of the cost of treatment, this doesnt invalidate the 
approach QIC took (to ascertain from the vet what would be the imputed cost of the scale 
and polish and other tooth extractions). And it may not have led to a different figure than that 
supplied by the vet. 
On the point about his taking out the policy in good faith expecting the only deduction to be 
the excess, claims are assessed against the terms and conditions of the policy. These 
include various exclusions as set out in the terms and conditions, which insurers consider as 
part of the assessment process. So, they are able to apply exclusions to deduct amounts 
from claims (or to decline claims in their entirety). But they have to do so fairly and 
reasonably, which is the criteria that Ive applied in making my decision.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im persuaded 
QIC have shown enough to apply the exclusion for dentistry treatments set out in the 
exclusion above. So, Ive concluded QIC acted fairly to apply the exclusion to impute the 
deduction of £169.73 to Mr Fs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman