DRN-2951740
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a Premier Tech 
and a Premier Travel Plus Pack in September 2012. 
Mr J says, amongst other things, that he did not need the benefits that these Packs came 
with as he held them elsewhere and he was pressured into taking them out. He has also 
said he could not use the benefits that the packs came with as he did not travel, drive or 
have a mobile phone. Additionally he has said that Barclays took advantage of mental health 
issues that he was suffering from.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the Packs had been 
mis-sold. Mr J disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case. I think it might help to explain that, where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
I can see that Mr J had held a fee-free account with Barclays prior to this upgrade. So I think 
that he wouldve been aware that he could have a fee-free account without any additional 
Packs. Mr J says he was pressured into taking the Packs, but he has not explained why he 
thought he had no choice to take out the Packs. I accept that Mr J may have been strongly 
encouraged to take out the Packs, but I think overall that Mr J was aware that he did not 
have to take out the Packs and that they were optional and he chose to take them out.
I note that Mr J has explained that he was suffering from mental health issues and was 
receiving benefits at this time and Barclays took advantage of him. I have carefully 
considered this, but from Barclays notes, it seems that Mr J told Barclays that he was self 
employed with a considerable income at this time. This is supported from sizable payments 
being made into the account shortly after it was taken out. So while Im not questioning Mr 
Js mental health issues, I dont think that it wouldve been apparent to Barclays given the 
evidence from the time of the sale.
When the Packs were taken out they had a combined cost of £19, and the major benefits 
were mobile phone insurance, travel insurance and breakdown cover. Mr J said at the time 
of the sale he did not drive, own a mobile phone and did not travel. That said, I can see that 
Mr J claimed on the breakdown cover and made a claim on the travel insurance policy in 
2014. This suggests that he did have need for some of the benefits at the time of the sale. I 
note that Mr J has also said that he held the benefits elsewhere at the time of the sale, but 
he has not explained why he could not have cancelled the cover he held already held and 
rely on the benefits that came with the Packs instead. Given the claims that he made I think 
it is possible that this is what occurred. So taking everything into consideration, I think that 
Mr J took out the Packs - knowing they were optional - as he was attracted to and could use 
the benefits that they came with.
Based on the available evidence I dont think that a personal recommendation was made by 
Barclays. This means that Barclays did not have to ensure that the packs were appropriate 
for Mr J based on his needs at the time. Barclays did however have to give Mr J enough 
information to allow him to decide this for himself. 
I think that the major benefits wouldve been highlighted to Mr J during the sale, in order to 
make the packs seem attractive and to encourage him to agree to them. This is borne out by 
Mr J making claims on some of the benefits that the packs came with. I also cant see 
anything specific that he was not told about the packs, that I think wouldve altered his 
decision to agree to them.
I accept that over time, it may be that Mr Js circumstance may have changed so that the 
Packs may now have been of limited use to him. But this does not mean that it was wrong 
for them to have been sold in the first instance to Mr J.
I note that Mr J says he tried to cancel the Packs on a number of occasions, but he was 
unable to. But I cant see any requests from Mr J to cancel his Packs prior to when they were 
removed.
Overall, and having taken everything into consideration, I am not persuaded that Barclays 
mis-sold Mr J the Packs in 2012 and therefore I cant ask it to refund the fees that he paid for 
them.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman