DRN-2051798
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the early repayment charge (ERC) he incurred when he repaid his 
Aviva Life Services UK Limited lifetime mortgage in October 2019. He says the ERC is unfair 
because Aviva changed its lending policy, which meant his property was no longer 
considered suitable security so it wouldnt lend any more money against it.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says The central issue here is whether, having changed their lending policy, Aviva 
could have justification for levying upon me an early repayment charge when I was left with 
no alternative but to go to another lender. The simple answer to this is that yes, Aviva did 
have justification for levying the ERC.
The contract Mr L entered into in January 2015 was for a draw down limit of £81,100, from 
which he was immediately drawing down £25,000 (£24,450 plus £550 for fees). The 
remaining £56,100 was left available for him as a cash reserve to draw down without 
needing a further application to do so. That is all Aviva was ever contractually obliged to lend 
to Mr L, irrespective of how much Mr Ls property increased in value by.
This was explained in the mortgage offer:
Additional borrowing could be available in the future. We dont guarantee this as it 
depends on our lending criteria at the time.
In the future we may change our lending criteria to reflect changes in the mortgage 
market or advice from our valuer. This may mean that you are unable to take 
additional borrowing against your property.
With this lifetime mortgage you may be able to borrow more or set up a new cash 
reserve, but this is not guaranteed. Whether you can do this will depend on the value 
of your home, how much youve already borrowed from us, our lending criteria and 
loan availability at the time.
The mortgage offer also set out the ERC that could be levied under the contract, and the 
circumstances in which the ERC wouldnt apply.
The contract Mr L entered into was to borrow a finite amount  that is, an amount up to the 
limit that was put in place in 2015. There was no underlying entitlement for Mr L to vary that 
contract by borrowing more in the future. When Aviva said it wasnt able to lend any further 
funds, Mr L had two options available to him;
1. Continue with the contract he entered into in 2015,
2. End that contract so he could borrow further funds elsewhere, on the understanding 
that by ending the contract early hed be liable for the ERC.
Mr L chose option two, and in doing so he became liable for the ERC. However much Mr L 
may see it otherwise, it was a choice he had and it was a choice he made.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
ERC are set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. There was no regulatory 
requirement for Aviva to do any more, or to provide any further explanation.
Aviva simply didnt have to put an additional warning in that the ERC would still be due even 
if it changed its lending policy so would be unable to lend further funds. I cant hold Aviva 
liable for not doing something it didnt have to do. The warnings it gave that additional 
borrowing wasnt guaranteed and the explanations of the ERC that would be due if the 
mortgage was repaid were sufficient, and so I cant uphold this complaint however much 
Mr L may want me to.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman