DRN-3537169
The complaint
Miss S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (AFS), adversely affected her credit score when they recorded incorrect settlement 
details of the hire purchase agreement she held with them.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss S acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with AFS. The 
cash price of the car was £18,430. An advanced payment of £2,010 was made which meant 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £16,420.05 payable over 49 months.
Miss S explained that AFS terminated her agreement after shed defaulted on it in 2018 by 
missing some payments. Miss S said AFS transferred her outstanding debt on the 
agreement to a debt recovery agent; and was told if she settled the outstanding balance 
within a certain timeframe, shed be able to pay a lower amount. So, Miss S said she was 
able to pay off her outstanding debt on the agreement in May 2021.
Miss S said when she later reviewed her credit file she noticed her credit score had gone 
down, and having contacted the credit reference agency, Miss S said she was told there 
may have been a clerical error by AFS because the agreement was showing as being 
settled in February 2022, which she believed was incorrect. Miss S says she wants her 
credit file and credit score repaired.
AFS system notes show that Miss S contacted them in March 2022 to complain about a 
default notice showing on her credit file for an issue that occurred in 2018. They also 
provided a statement of her account which showed that the payments for August to 
November 2018 were rejected.
AFS also provided a copy of correspondence they sent to Miss S in December 2018 
confirming theyd terminated her agreement as a result of the arrears and were taking steps 
to repossess her car.
Miss S complained to AFS about the incorrect settlement information on her credit file, and 
the impact she felt it had on her credit score. In April 2022 AFS provided their final response 
to her complaint. AFS upheld Miss S complaint. AFS confirmed that Miss S had settled her 
account in May 2021, however due to administration delays her credit file reported the 
defaulted amount as satisfied in March 2022, 10 months later. AFS apologised and said they 
made a request in April 2022 to have Miss S credit file corrected.
Unhappy with AFS final response Miss S brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Our investigator gave their view that AFS hadnt acted fairly in the 
circumstances and recommended that they pay miss S £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Miss S responded to say that her credit score had been affected as a result of AFS mistake, 
and that she wanted it restored to reflect what it had been in February 2022. Miss S also 
sent to our investigator a copy of a page of her credit report from November 2021 showing 
her agreement with AFS as being settled in July 2018.
Our investigator explained to Miss S, that as AFS had put a request through for her credit file 
to be corrected and are unable to determine what her credit score would go back to, his view 
remained unchanged. So, Miss S asked that her complaint is referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 requires a business to serve notice on a borrower before 
they can become entitled to take certain actions, including terminating an agreement or 
recovering possession of any goods. I can see that AFS wrote to Miss S in September, 
October, November and December of 2018 about the arrears on her agreement. They also 
wrote to her in October 2018 advising she may be issued with a default notice which could 
result in the termination of her agreement. And in November 2018 AFS issued Miss S with a 
default notice advising her agreement may be terminated if she failed to repay her arrears by 
a certain date. This led to the termination of Miss S agreement and the issue that Miss S 
complains about.
Its not in dispute that an administration delay was the cause for Miss S credit file not being 
updated when it should have been. In their final response, AFS have upheld Miss S 
complaint and have acknowledged and apologised for the delay. Miss S has accepted that 
AFS made the mistake, however what is in dispute here is the proposed resolution to put 
things right.
 
AFS accepted our investigators outcome and recommendation to pay Miss S £100 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. In an email to our investigator Miss S said her 
credit score had reduced by around 500 points as a result of AFS mistake. Miss S said that 
she agreed with our investigators conclusions but said shed also like to see her credit score 
repaired. 
Having thought about all the information and evidence provided, Im in agreement with our 
investigators outcome that AFS should pay Miss S £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
AFS have recognised their mistake meant Miss S credit file was incorrect. I acknowledge 
the credit file page, generated in November 2021, sent to us from Miss S showed that her 
account had been settled in July 2018. I recognise this was also incorrect. I think its fair to 
say that AFS hadnt recorded the correct information on Miss S credit file in relation to the 
hire purchase agreement. And as a result, I think its fair that AFS should put things right.
AFS provided us with a copy of a manual amendments credit file record detailing that Miss S 
agreement with them had been satisfied on 14 May 2021. I recognise Miss S strength of 
feeling that her credit score should also be improved, however when credit reference 
agencies calculate a persons credit score various pieces of data and information are taken into consideration. And so, Im not persuaded that Miss S is able to say what her credit score 
would have been under certain circumstances. AFS has provided evidence that theyve 
corrected the credit information relating to Miss S agreement with them, so Im satisfied that 
theyve reasonably put things right in the circumstances.
I acknowledge what Miss S has told us about her personal circumstances and the impact 
this situation has had on her. And Ive carefully thought about the circumstances here. 
However, having considered everything, Ive seen no evidence that AFS is responsible for  
what Miss S says about how her credit score has affected her, and as credit ratings are 
compiled using different information, Im not persuaded that AFS should be blamed for what 
Miss S is going through, for example in relation to seeking additional credit or for how shes 
feeling. 
Having said that, I acknowledge there would have been some degree of inconvenience for 
Miss S, for example in having to notify AFS about the issue and in sorting things out; and so 
Im in agreement with our investigator that £100 compensation fairly recognises this. So, Ill 
be instructing AFS to pay this to Miss S.
My final decision
To settle the complaint AFS has already amended Miss S credit file to correctly reflect the 
settlement of her agreement with them. 
So, in addition to what theyve already done, my final decision is that Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services should: 
Pay Miss S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman