DRN-4082865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their mortgage 
application.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want Santander to agree to their application and 
compensate them for their financial losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs C have been mortgage customers of Santander for some years. They moved 
home in November 2020, porting their mortgage interest rate product onto a new property, 
but reducing their borrowing. They used the equity released from the sale of their previous 
property to renovate their new home.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs C took out a new interest rate product, borrowing just over £84,000 over 
a term of 11 years 10 months, with a fixed rate of interest until 2 April 2022, following which 
the mortgage would revert to Santanders follow-on rate, of 3.25% above Bank of England 
Base Rate.
After moving to the new property Mrs C underwent a life-changing event (details of which I 
will not disclose in order to preserve her anonymity). As a result, the location of the property 
theyd moved to in 2020 was no longer suitable; Mrs C needed a property located on flat 
terrain, which was difficult to find in the town where Mr and Mrs C lived and worked.
However, a suitable property became available, and Mr and Mrs C wanted to move quickly 
to buy it, because this type of property rarely became available and they didnt want to lose 
it.
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs C applied to Santander for a new mortgage, under the banks Loyal 
Mover scheme. This scheme mirrors the provisions of the Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) where existing customers want to move their 
mortgage to a new property, allowing Santander to approve the application if it is on a 
like-for-like basis.
Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow the same amount of their existing borrowing, and although 
they were initially going to increase the loan-to-value ratio (LTV), Mr and Mrs C said they 
would keep the LTV the same to allow the application to go ahead. 
But Santander declined the application. The bank was concerned that Mr and Mrs C had 
moved several times since 2015 and had retained large portions of equity each time. Theyd 
also had unsecured debt and a debt management plan (DMP). Santander said it didnt think 
the mortgage was affordable, due to the level of unsecured debt, despite Mr and Mrs C 
confirming they would be paying off their credit cards from the proceeds of sale.
Mr and Mrs C sold their property on 21 September 2022, redeeming the mortgage to 
Santander. They purchased their property on 11 November 2022, after taking out a bridging 
loan which is front-loaded with interest and fees and which is repayable after 12 months.
Mr and Mrs C complained that Santander had unfairly declined the application. Santander 
didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs C brought it to our service. An investigator 
thought the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that under the regulations 
Santander was required to consider, allowing the application would have been in the best 
interests of Mr and Mrs C. Santander didnt agree and reiterated all its concerns about 
affordability and unsecured debt. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
Provisional decision of 6 March 2023 and responses
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market 
Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a 
series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to 
act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old 
rules but wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. 
The rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) at Rule 11.6.
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordability
But there are also transitional arrangements at MCOB 11.7 which say that a lender 
need not carry out an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; 
and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go 
down. If theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to 
affordability, theres no obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And 
if there is a change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a 
lender could still decide to allow an application without an affordability assessment if 
doing so would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
It doesnt appear that Santander gave any consideration to these regulations in 
respect of what was in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests, even though the bank was 
required to do so.
Santander said it had declined the mortgage on the basis of affordability. So Ive 
looked at the information Mr and Mrs C provided, and thought about whether the 
mortgage would have been affordable or not.
One of the concerns Santander had was that Mr and Mrs C had moved several times 
since 2015, releasing equity each time, but had still accrued additional debt. 
Santander thought this, and the unsecured debts Mr and Mrs C had at the time of the 
application, showed a pattern of spending that the bank thought was unsustainable. 
Santander thought it would not be acting responsibly to offer Mr and Mrs C a new 
mortgage under those circumstances.
In response to my enquiries, Mr and Mrs C have provided substantial details and 
evidence about how they spent the equity after each of their moves  largely on 
home improvements, and to cater for the needs of their large family. The property 
theyd moved to in 2020 needed a considerable amount of work, which Mr and Mrs C 
have documented to my satisfaction.
I therefore dont have concerns that Mr and Mrs C have frittered away substantial 
sums of money each time they moved house. This simply isnt borne out by what 
theyve told me and the evidence theyve provided. Santander didnt ask 
Mr and Mrs C about this; given that one of Santanders main concerns was how 
equity from previous sales had been used, I would have expected the bank to have 
made more detailed enquiries about this.
Mr and Mrs C dont understand why Santander said they had £41,000 of unsecured 
debt, because they say their unsecured debt was nowhere near that amount and that 
it was about £15,000. Ive seen a copy of the DMP, which shows under £4,000 still 
outstanding. Mr and Mrs C told Santander theyd be paying off their credit cards out 
of the proceeds of sale. 
I understand that Santander would assess the application on the basis of existing 
debt. But given that there would be sufficient equity to repay what Mr and Mrs C said 
was their unsecured debt (about £15,000, far less than the £41,000 Santander 
claimed), this could easily have been dealt with by a special condition requiring a 
solicitors undertaking to discharge those debts out of the proceeds of sale.
In any event, other than a pandemic payment holiday when Mr C was furloughed, 
there were no missed payments on the mortgage, nor any financial difficulties. Im 
therefore not persuaded there were any issues around affordability of the mortgage.However, Santander was also required to consider whether agreeing the application 
was in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests. I cant see that Santander applied MCOB 11.7 
here). 
It seems that Santander misunderstood the situation concerning the property, where 
Mr and Mrs C had said it was flat. The notes show that Santander thought 
Mr and Mrs C were moving to a flat, rather than a house. This was later clarified, as 
the notes show that Santander had been told that the new property was a few 
minutes from Mrs Cs work, and so was accessible for her. 
As I said at the start, I wont give any details of Mrs Cs circumstances, but Im 
satisfied that the reason for the move was, in my opinion, reasonable and clearly in 
Mrs Cs best interests for her future health and wellbeing. It also made sense 
financially, as Mr and Mrs C would only need one vehicle, and they would be able to 
release equity to clear their debts.
There was also no change to the repayment vehicle, which Santander had accepted 
for previous applications (sale of the property). Mr and Mrs C said they intended to 
downsize when the mortgage term came to an end. Santanders notes show that 
someone at the bank had sourced numerous smaller properties in the area that the 
bank said Mr and Mrs C could have bought without a mortgage. 
But, for the reasons outlined above, it was essential that Mr and Mrs C had a 
property on level ground where Mrs C could walk to work. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr and Mrs C to want this specific property that might have been 
larger than they needed as a home for just the two of them. They have a very large 
family and so its understandable for them to want a property that could 
accommodate family gatherings or overnight visits. This is particularly relevant given 
Mrs Cs disability.
In all the circumstances, I think that if Santander had properly applied the best 
interests test which it was required to do under MCOB 11.7, it should have agreed 
the application.
This means that I think the complaint should be upheld.
Because I think Santander should have allowed the application, Ive thought about 
what Santander should do to put things right. 
Im satisfied that from mid-August 2022 onwards, Mr and Mrs C had been told 
several times that Santander wasnt going to agree the application. I think it would 
have been reasonable, given that Mr and Mrs C were desperate not to lose the new 
property, for them to have looked at alternative lenders, either directly or through a 
mortgage broker.
Mr and Mrs C bought their new property with a bridging loan, which they applied for 
on 14 October 2022. The purchase completed on 11 November 2022. 
This is a situation where, but for Santanders failure to consider the application in line 
with MCOB 11.6 and (particularly) MCOB 11.7, Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have needed 
to take out the bridging loan. If Santander had properly considered the regulations, 
the mortgage should have been agreed.
But overall, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C couldnt have obtained a standard 
mortgage from another lender. I think there was enough time from mid-August 2022 until 11 November 2022 for a standard mortgage to be arranged, particularly if a 
mortgage broker had been involved who could expedite matters. So Im not 
persuaded that the bridging loan was the only available option for Mr and Mrs C. 
In the circumstances, I dont think Santander should be responsible for all the 
additional costs of the bridging loan. 
Im also not persuaded that Santander should be liable for Mr and Mrs Cs storage 
costs when they sold their property. It was their choice to move before they were 
ready to purchase, and I cant see anything in Santanders notes to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs C told Santander they were doing this.
Mr and Mrs C had wanted to borrow £76,400 from Santander. Their bridging loan is 
for £80,000, but the total cost for credit, including interest added is over £94,300. 
There may also be other fees to pay on redemption of the bridging loan.
I think the fairest way to resolve this case is for Mr and Mrs C to provide us with 
details of the cost of repaying the bridging loan as at 30 April 2023 (which I think is a 
reasonable point from the date of this decision by which this complaint can be 
resolved), and for Santander to offer them a mortgage for that amount. Because 
Mr and Mrs C could have applied for a standard mortgage, I think they must bear 
responsibility for the additional cost of the bridging loan over and above what theyd 
wanted to borrow from Santander, as Im not persuaded this was their only option, for 
the reasons given above.
I think affordability of an increased mortgage should not be an issue; Mr and Mrs C 
have decreased their mortgage borrowing with each property move, from £192,000 in 
2015, to £103,000 in 2018 to £87,000 in 2020, with apparently no significant 
changes/reductions in employment or earnings. So an increase in borrowing to cover 
the additional costs of the bridging loan ought to be within affordability.
This isnt ideal for either party; Santander no doubt would not want to increase the 
amount it lends to Mr and Mrs C. But if the application had been properly assessed in 
line with MCOB 11.7, Mr and Mrs C would have had a mortgage with Santander for 
£76,400. Therefore Santander must bear some responsibility for Mr and Mrs C now 
needing to borrow more.
Its also probably not what Mr and Mrs C want either. But as it was their choice to go 
ahead with a bridging loan rather than a standard mortgage from another lender, its 
not fair for Santander to bear all the additional costs of this when there were other, 
cheaper, routes that Mr and Mrs C could have taken. So if Mr and Mrs C accept my 
decision, they must understand that it will be on the basis of them having a higher 
mortgage than theyd anticipated, because of the need for them to cover some of the 
costs of the bridging loan.
The bridging loan is for £94,357.62, inclusive of £9,517.82 interest (rolled up, with no 
monthly repayments required). The loan is for 12 months and it completed on 
11 November 2022.
Mr and Mrs C paid an application fee of £495 and a valuation fee of £425 for the 
bridging loan application. If Mr and Mrs C would not have incurred any fees for a new 
mortgage with Santander, I think it would be reasonable for Santander to reimburse 
those fees, with statutory interest of 8% per annum. Those fees werent added to the 
loan and so bear no interest. If Mr and Mrs C would have incurred application and 
valuation fees for any new Santander mortgage, then Santander isnt required to reimburse these fees, but Santander should waive any such fees for a new 
mortgage. 
I think Santander should also reimburse the broker fee of £995, which was added to 
the loan and so bears interest. 
The other fees are fees that are specific to the bridging loan (facility and legal fees) 
are not fees that Santander should be ordered to reimburse. Land Registry and 
telegraphic transfer fees would have been incurred in any event, whoever the lender 
was.
However, I must also take into account the repayments Mr and Mrs C would have 
made if theyd had a Santander mortgage from 11 November 2022. Its only fair that 
these are factored into the calculations. I acknowledge that reducing the amount of 
any mortgage offered by the amount of mortgage payments Mr and Mrs C would 
have made may well result in a deficit between the redemption figure for the bridging 
loan and the new mortgage. 
Given this, I think any fee reimbursement to Mr and Mrs C should be set off against 
any mortgage payments Mr and Mrs C would have made if theyd had a Santander 
mortgage, to mitigate any potential deficit.
So to settle this complaint, I think the fairest outcome would be for Santander to do 
the following:
offer Mr and Mrs C a mortgage sufficient to repay the bridging loan on 30 April 
2023 (Mr and Mrs C to provide the figure for this), at the lowest rate that would 
have been available on 21 September 2022 (when the previous mortgage was 
redeemed) but subject to the following:
ocalculate the interest charged on the broker fee of £995 (A)
ofactor in reimbursement of the application fee (£495), valuation fee (£425) 
 if those fees wouldnt have been payable to Santander as stated above 
 and the broker fee (£995) (B)
ocalculate the amount of interest Mr and Mrs C would have paid if they had 
been on the lowest available Santander mortgage rate for which they 
were eligible from 11 November 2022 to 30 April 2023; (C)
odeduct that notional amount (C) from the total interest charged on the 
bridging loan (£9,517.82) (because that is interest Mr and Mrs C would 
have paid in any event if theyd had a Santander mortgage) ; 
oIf A + B is more than C, Santander should pay Mr and Mrs C the 
difference (D);
oIf A + B is less than C and would result in a shortfall on redemption of the 
bridging loan, Santander should increase the mortgage offer to make up 
the difference. 
Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs C interest at 8% simple per annum* on 
the valuation and application fees (£920 total) from 14 October 2022 to the date of settlement as these were upfront fees not included in the loan.
Im satisfied Santanders failure properly to apply MCOB 11.7 cause 
Mr and Mrs C considerable distress and inconvenience. I intend to direct 
Santander to pay compensation of £1,500 for this.
Santander did not want to make any further comment and said it would await the final 
decision.
Mr and Mrs C have made some further points. They say that they were told on 24 August 
2022 that the application had been declined. The reason they didnt go to another provider is 
that they were advised by Santander to get a bridging loan while all of this was being sorted 
out, as two of the Santander advisers said the decision wasnt right and it should be 
overturned by the underwriters, but it will take time to sort out. 
The total amount to repay the bridging loan, including fees added to the loan and rolled-up 
interest, is £94,357.62.
Mr and Mrs C also say they incurred additional moving and storage fees because they had 
to move twice (once from the property they were selling to stay temporarily with family, and 
then to their new property). In addition, their solicitor wasnt able to deal with the bridging 
finance loan and so they had to instruct a new solicitor for this. Mr and Mrs C think those 
costs should be reimbursed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outset, revisited my provisional decision and taken note 
of the additional points Mr and Mrs C have made. Santander hasnt challenged my 
provisional decision to uphold the complaint, so the only issue I need to determine now is 
what the appropriate redress should be. However, for the sake of clarity, I am satisfied, for 
all the reasons given in my provisional decision, which are outlined above, that Santander 
should have agreed to the new mortgage, as it was in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests to do 
so.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they were advised several times by Santander to apply for a 
bridging loan while the appeal was going through. However, the contact notes do not support 
this. There is only one mention of a bridging loan, on 6 October 2022. This was after 
Mr and Mrs C had appealed the initial decline decision (24 August 2022), and after theyd 
been told on 23 September 2022 that the underwriters wouldnt be overturning the decision . 
By that time, Mr and Mrs C had already completed on the sale of their property, and repaid 
the Santander mortgage (which they did on 21 September 2022).
The application for bridging finance wasnt made until 12 October 2022. In order to expedite 
completion of the purchase, the vendor reduced the purchase price from £390,000 to 
£375,000 on 28 October 2022. Completion took place on 11 November 2022.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Santander is responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs 
decision to take out a bridging loan. If Mr and Mrs C had taken steps after the application 
was declined on 24 August 2022 to apply to another lender (and their estate agent would 
probably have been able to facilitate this), theyd have had eleven weeks to arrange a new 
mortgage before they completed on their purchase on 11 November 2022. I think this is a 
reasonable timescale for a new mortgage to have been arranged. Given that there was no guarantee in August 2022 that Santander would lend, Id have 
expected Mr and Mrs C to discuss contingency plans with their estate agent and solicitor, 
and set the ball rolling at that point to source another mortgage. So I dont think a bridging 
loan was the only option, taking into account the timescale from the initial decline.
Im also not persuaded Santander should be responsible for the additional moving and 
storage fees incurred. It was Mr and Mrs Cs decision to sell before they were in a position to 
complete on their purchase, and this isnt something for which I can hold Santander 
responsible.
I fully appreciate that, if Mr and Mrs C accept my decision and the redress ordered below is 
put in place, they will have a bigger mortgage than they anticipated. I understand that this 
wouldnt have happened if the application for a new mortgage had been approved by 
Santander. However, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C had the opportunity to mitigate their position 
by sourcing a new mortgage after 24 August 2022, rather than waiting until the eleventh hour 
to arrange bridging finance. Mr and Mrs C put all their eggs in one basket and assumed 
Santander would offer them the mortgage, when they really needed to have been thinking 
about an alternative lender as a back-up.
In the circumstances, I do not intend to depart from the redress I proposed in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I require Santander UK Plc to do the following.
offer Mr and Mrs C a mortgage of £94,357.62, at the lowest rate that would have been 
available on 21 September 2022 (when the previous mortgage was redeemed) but 
subject to the following:
ocalculate the interest charged on the broker fee of £995 (A)
ofactor in reimbursement of the application fee (£495), valuation fee (£425)  if 
those fees wouldnt have been payable to Santander as stated above  and the 
broker fee (£995) (B)
ocalculate the amount of interest Mr and Mrs C would have paid if they had been 
on the lowest available Santander mortgage rate for which they were eligible from 
11 November 2022 to 30 April 2023; (C)
odeduct that notional amount (C) from the total interest charged on the bridging 
loan (£9,517.82) (because that is interest Mr and Mrs C would have paid in any 
event if theyd had a Santander mortgage) ; 
oIf A + B is more than C, Santander should pay Mr and Mrs C the difference (D);
oIf A + B is less than C and would result in a shortfall on redemption of the bridging 
loan, Santander should increase the mortgage offer to make up the difference. 
Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs C interest at 8% simple per annum* on the 
valuation and application fees (£920 total) from 14 October 2022 to the date of 
settlement as these were upfront fees not included in the loan.Im satisfied Santanders failure properly to apply MCOB 11.7 caused Mr and Mrs C 
considerable distress and inconvenience. I direct Santander to pay compensation of 
£1,500 for this.
* If Santander considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, it 
should tell Mr and Mrs C how much it has taken off. Santander should also give Mr and Mrs C a tax deduction 
certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
As I said in the provisional decision, this situation isnt the ideal one for either party, because 
the new mortgage will be for more than Mr and Mrs C wanted, and is for more than the 
application Santander had been asked to consider. But I have to be fair to both parties, and 
so Ive taken into account both what Santander needs to do to put things right, as well as  
the implications of Mr and Mrs C not mitigating their position. So whilst I appreciate that 
neither party might not be completely happy with the outcome, it is the solution which I think 
is the most fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs C arent obliged to accept this decision. If they decide not to, it will not be binding 
on Santander, and the bank will not be obliged to put in place the redress I have ordered. 
However, I would be remiss if I did not remind Mr and Mrs C that the bridging loan is due to 
be repaid in full on 11 November 2023 and they will need to have plans in place to repay it 
on or before that date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Santander 
UK Plc to put in place the redress set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman