DRN-2115498
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr H took out in July 1997. 
It was sold in store and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed. His 
representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
AXA didnt provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
The application took place at a cash desk in a busy store; Mr H was just told where to 
tick and sign.
If hed been given the information he needed about the PPI, he wouldnt have taken it 
because he would have received sick pay from his employer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr H's case.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mr H's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding 
PPI. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Ive taken into 
account what Mr Hs representative says about the store being busy. But, as I can't be sure 
what was discussed when the PPI sold, I've relied more on what the paperwork from the 
time shows.
I've seen a copy of the application form Mr H signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Protection for your payments". The form does not specifically say that PPI is 
optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to tick or cross a box, that it was 
not a requirement of applying for the credit card.
Ive considered the likelihood that the form was pre-completed by the member of staff and 
Mr H was just asked to sign it. And I accept that is most likely what happened. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr H wouldn't have been able to check through the application before he 
signed it. The form, and the section about PPI, was quite brief, so I think he would have had 
time to read this, even though he was in a busy store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Mr H that he had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that he chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As he could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected his decision take out PPI.
Mr H did tell us about the two years he had to have off work because of an injury and 
surgery  but this was after hed taken out the policy, so I dont find this would have affected 
his decision at the point of sale.
Mr H cant really remember what pay he would have received from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident, but thinks it might have been six months. And 
hes told us he didnt have any other means to meet his repayments. The PPI would have 
covered his payments for up to 12 months. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. 
So it could have been a useful benefit for him in his circumstances and given him peace of 
mind that his payments would be covered. So, again, receiving clearer information would 
not, on balance, have changed what happened here.
Finally, it also looks like the PPI was affordable and he could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman