DRN-1366742
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Bank of 
Scotland didnt think it had mis-sold the PPI but repaid some of the commission and profit 
share it received. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided Mr Ms PPI wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
A box was marked on the credit card application form with a printed cross to indicate Mr M 
wanted PPI. However, given that he declined another type of insurance that was also 
available (indicated by an unmarked box next to the PPI one), I think that this was most likely 
a result of a discussion with Mr M. So, I think Bank of Scotland made Mr M aware that he 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr M, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to refund all of what Mr M paid for PPI. But Bank 
of Scotland has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr M because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told 
Mr M about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman