DRN-4247272
The complaint
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 are a partnership with a trading name, for ease of reading Ill refer 
to the partnership as G. G complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) unfairly turned down their 
claim for a stolen pickup on their commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
Reference to SoL also includes the actions and comments of the underwriting syndicate.
What happened
Gs pickup was stolen and so G reported the theft to the Police and to SoL. The pickup was 
then found burnt out not long after it was reported stolen. SoL reviewed the claim to 
understand the details of the theft. 
When investigating the theft, SoL asked how many keys G had for the pickup, and they said 
there was one. SoL checked with the previous owner who bought the pickup from new, and 
they said they thought it had been sold to G with two keys. SoL asked to see the key G had. 
When SoL reviewed the key, it had concerns over the wear marks on the key, so it sent the 
key for forensic testing. The forensic report said there were fine grit particles on the blade of 
the key which was the result of fine grit paper being used on the key. Because of this SoL 
wasnt satisfied with what G had said about the claim and turned it down. Specifically, SoL 
relied on the policy exclusion which says claims for theft arent covered if the pickup is left 
unlocked or with the keys in or on the pickup. SoL also referred to the term which allows it to 
decline claims if false, exaggerated or fraudulent information is given. 
G didnt think this was fair and complained. They said the accusation that the key had been 
tampered with was absurd. They also said theyre from the farming community and work in 
the construction industry and wear on the key was normal. SoL reviewed the complaint and 
maintained its position. It reiterated that the pickup had good security features and it would 
need to be stolen with the use of a key, so didnt agree it had acted unfairly by declining the 
claim. Unhappy with SoLs response, G brought the complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think SoL had done anything wrong. She 
found it had relied upon an experts opinion about the wear to the key and as none of the 
vehicles security features appeared to have been activated during the theft, she thought 
SoL had acted reasonably in declining the claim. G didnt agree. They said the pickup could 
have been stolen using other methods and referred to what is known as relay theft. They 
also said anyone who had used the pickup could have lost one of the keys and didnt agree 
the key theyd provided had been tampered with. G also said SoL had taken too long to 
decline the claim. 
As G didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Gs policy say under the sections exceptions: 
Loss of or damage to your vehicle or its contents by theft or attempted theft or an 
unauthorised person taking and driving it if:
 
 It has been left unlocked 
 It has been left with the keys (or any form of keyless entry / ignition control 
device), in it or on it 
 It has been left with the windows, roof panel or the roof of a convertible vehicle 
open or 
 You have not taken reasonable precautions to protect it
SoL has also relied upon a second term which says: 
If a claim is made which you or anyone acting on your behalf knows is false, 
fraudulent, exaggerated, or provides false or stolen documents to support a claim 
we will not pay the claim and cover under this insurance will end.
Ive therefore looked at whether SoL has applied the terms fairly and reasonably in this case. 
In doing so Ive also considered the forensic report on the key which says: 
This is likely one of the original keys issued when new. It is functional, but the wear on the 
case and blade is as a result of a coarse paper, not through general use; any actual wear 
has been obscured by the handmade wear.
The report goes onto talk about the security features of this pickup and how it isnt 
susceptible to relay theft due to how the locking system works. The report details that the 
most likely cause of theft would be through using a key and says: 
One of the two originals is missing and obviously a huge concern, exacerbated by the fact 
the key supplied shows unnatural wear.
I understand G disputes this and says the key wear is normal. My role to determine whether 
SoL has acted fairly and reasonably in declining this claim. And when taking into account the 
forensic report, along with the other evidence, such as testimony about the theft and from 
the previous owner about how many keys the pickup had. Im not persuaded SoL has done 
anything wrong in declining this claim. 
Ive also noted G has complained about how long the claim took. Ive considered this and 
can see the claim did take a few months. However, when taking into account the need to 
obtain forensic reports and obtain different testimonies, Im not persuaded SoL took an 
unreasonable amount of time. It therefore follows that Im not going to tell it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G1, Mrs G or 
Mr G2 to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman