DRN-2295947
The complaint
Miss D complains that Europ Assistance S.A declined her claim against her travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss D booked a trip with a departure date of 14 October 2019. She bought a single trip 
travel insurance policy. 
On 13 October 2019, Miss D became unwell with severe diarrhoea, vomiting and abdominal 
pain. On the day she was due to depart, Miss D consulted her GP who thought that Miss Ds 
symptoms were likely due to viral gastroenteritis. The GP said that Miss D was unfit to travel 
until 48 hours after full resolution of her symptoms. Miss D cancelled her trip.
Miss D made a claim against her policy. Europ Assistance declined Miss Ds claim. It said, in 
effect, that Miss Ds illness wasnt covered under the policy. Miss D didnt think that was fair 
and pursued the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Miss Ds claim came 
within the terms of the policy and that Europ Assistance should deal with the claim. The 
investigator said that Miss Ds policy doesnt cover the cost of Miss D providing medical 
evidence. 
Miss D accepted the investigators view. Europ Assistance asked for further documentation 
from Miss D before it made payment. It authorised a payment of £84.48 which it said was the 
costs of the flights, less the excess. Miss D didnt think that was right. She said it was 
insufficient in relation to her flight costs and didnt include her accommodation costs. 
There was further correspondence, which I wont set out here. As Europ Assistance didnt 
respond to the investigators further requests for clarification about the settlement of the 
claim, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Europ Assistance accepted the investigators view but didnt respond to the investigators 
further enquiries about how it had dealt with the settlement of the claim. 
Subject to certain provisions, the policy provides cover for cancellation costs which Miss D 
paid and which cant be recovered from any other source. Cancellation costs are defined in 
the policy as:
Irrecoverable travel and accommodation expenses paid or contracted to be paid by you in 
respect of your trip (excluding Airport Departure Duty or similar tax, where separately 
identified, credit card or administration charges).
As Europ Assistance has accepted the investigators view about the claim, it should now 
deal with Miss Ds claim for travel and accommodation expenses under the remaining terms 
of the policy. 
As theres been confusion about how Europ Assistance calculated the £84.48 it has 
authorised so far, it should explain to Miss D how it reached both that figure and any other 
payment for accommodation costs. Europ Assistance should also pay interest on any 
settlement, from the date of the claim to the date of payment. 
If Miss D doesnt agree with Europ Assistances settlement of the claim, she should take that 
up with Europ Assistance in the first instance and may then refer the matter to this service, if 
she remains dissatisfied with its response. 
Putting things right
Europ Assistance should deal with Miss Ds claim for travel and accommodation expenses 
under the remaining terms of the policy and explain to Miss D how it calculated any 
settlement figure. It should also pay interest on any settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint. Europ Assistance S.A should deal with 
Miss Ds claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy. It should also pay 
interest on any settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date Miss D made her 
claim, to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Europ Assistance to take off tax from this interest.     
Europ Assistance must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she 
asks  for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman