DRN-2274377
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a life assurance policy.
What happened
In December 2010 Bank of Scotland advised Mrs C to purchase a whole of life policy. The 
recommendation was made on the basis of meeting Mrs Cs main objective  this was to 
provide a cash lump sum, in the event of her death, to her children. She wanted to make 
sure they didnt have to meet the cost of her funeral without this support. The policy was set 
up on an increasing basis, meaning both the sum assured of £4,000 and monthly premiums 
of £55, increased in line with inflation each year. 
In early 2020 Mrs C complained to Bank of Scotland about the sale of the policy. She said 
she wasnt made aware that she could end up paying more in premiums, than her family 
would receive from a claim. And she was now concerned her children wouldnt benefit from 
the excess premiums paid. Mrs C also didnt think the policy was suitable for her as shes a 
pensioner, with poor health and limited income. She doesnt think the policy was affordable.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs C was provided with a quote and 
key features document at the point of sale. The information Mrs C was given set out how the 
policy worked and also, highlighted the risk that she could pay more in premiums than the 
sum assured. Unhappy with this response, Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Cs complaint. In brief, she didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. She considered Bank of Scotland had provided sufficient information to 
Mrs C to show her how the policy worked and its risks.
Mrs C disagreed. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasons, I 
understand Mrs C has raised a number of points  although I may not mention every point 
she's raised, Ive considered everything Mrs Cs said, but limited my findings to the areas 
which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention that where there's a dispute, I've 
based my decision on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the 
evidence.
As this policy was set to increase each year in line with inflation, the premiums and sum 
assured did change slightly each year. So Mrs C may not have known precisely how much 
her family would receive in the event of a claim. But she was given information which did 
explain how the policy worked, including the risk that she could end up paying more by way 
of premiums than would be due in the event of a claim. 
Notably, in the key features document under Risks it says: Over the course of the policy 
the amount you pay in premiums may exceed the benefit amount. The suitability letter also 
notes: The premiums are payable until you reach age 90 (or to earlier death). In view of the 
potential term, the premiums to be paid may exceed the total benefit payable. The suitability 
letter dated 2 December 2010 was discussed with Mrs C and sent to her by post after the 
meeting with the Bank of Scotland adviser.
I also see the adviser discussed with Mrs C how much shed pay over five years. He noted in 
the fact find (customer information document): I informed the customer that post-sale 
illustration would show total premiums payable as £3,329-40 as five year total. She 
understands this. Whilst I cant be sure exactly what was said, Mrs C was provided with 
information about the policy such as the key features document and a suitability letter. And 
based on all the evidence, I think Bank of Scotland made it reasonably clear to her  at the 
point of sale  that within a few years the total amount she paid in premiums could exceed 
the amount of the cover.
Mrs C also says she was misled because she wasnt told the premiums would increase each 
year. But I can see this was again explained to her during the advice process and in the 
documents she was provided with at the time. Mrs C also had the option to decline the 
increase at any point, which I can see she did in 2012. 
All in all, I dont think Bank of Scotland misled Mrs C about the way the policy worked. I do 
understand Mrs Cs disappointment and her feeling that the policy hasnt been good value 
for money. But I must look at whether Bank of Scotland did anything wrong here  and I 
cant see that it did.
In terms of whether the policy was suitable, at the time of the advice, Mrs C was in her late 
60s and had a number of health conditions. Taking into account these factors, particularly 
her medical information, her premiums were set at £55 each month. The fact find noted 
Mrs C had found it difficult to get life assurance elsewhere, so shed no other similar cover. 
And she wanted to ensure her children werent left to meet the cost of her funeral without 
financial support. So I think the policy was suitable as it met her needs and objectives.
But Mrs C says she couldnt afford the premiums, so the policy wasnt suitable for this 
reason. I can see the adviser did carry out an assessment of Mrs Cs financial situation 
before making the recommendation. This showed she had a disposable income of £194, 
which was sufficient to meet monthly premiums of £55. I know this cost was set to increase 
each year by the rate of inflation, but as Ive said, Mrs C had the option to decline this if it 
became unaffordable to her. And she did do so, in 2012.
Overall, Im satisfied based on Mrs Cs particular circumstances and her needs, the 
recommendation was a reasonable one to make. It follows that I think the policy was suitable 
and therefore, I cant fairly conclude it was mis-sold to her.
So whilst I understand Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome, for all the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman