DRN-2340234
The complaint
Mr W says:
He has an execution only account with Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti).
On 22 December 2019 he placed three Limit Orders (LOs) in his account to 
purchase shares in PZ Cussons Plc (PZC). The LOs were to be executed the 
following day, and upon opening of the market, at the best price for PZC covered by 
the price limit set in the LOs.
Upon opening of the market on 23 December 2019 (08:00) and despite the price for 
PZC being within the price limit set in the LOs Equiniti unduly delayed in executing 
his LOs for around eight minutes. By the time they were executed the shares were 
bought within the price limit set in the LOs but at a higher price than those available 
at and shortly after market opening.
He placed comparable orders for his family members in their accounts  with another 
firm  and they were promptly executed (at 08:00) on 23 December at a notably 
better price than those applied to his LOs. 
Equiniti should compensate him for the extra purchase cost (the financial loss) he 
incurred due to its delay in executing his LOs.
What happened
Equiniti says:
Its Limit Order Minder (the LOM) is not engaged until 08:03 on each day (morning) 
so Mr Ws LOs would not have been executed any earlier than 08:03 on 23 
December. This system is applied in recognition of volatility that can occur upon 
market opening.
Mr Ws LOs set a maximum price limit of £1.97 and his three purchases were 
executed below that limit, so the purpose of the LOs was upheld.
The terms agreed for Mr Ws account included notice of the risk, accepted by 
account holders like him, that execution of LOs are not always guaranteed even if the 
price limit(s) set within them are met; and that this (inability to execute an LO) could 
be due to market conditions, priority given to execution of other and earlier LOs or 
other factors beyond Equinitis control.
More information about the terms of the orders placed by Mr W for his family 
members  which he seeks to use as comparators (for merit and compensation in his 
case)  is required before a fair comparison can be made; but, in any case, it is not 
bound by another firms actions.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She considered as follows:
In addition to Mr Ws expectation of execution of the LOs within the price limit set, 
Equiniti was also obliged to apply best execution to the LOs (that is, to achieve the 
best price for the purchases within the price limit set in the LOs).
Not having the LOM activated, at all, during the first three minutes of the market 
meant there was no possibility of the LOs being executed during that time and this is 
not consistent with best execution. The effect was detrimental to Mr W. Evidence 
shows that even though his LOs were executed within the price limit he set, they 
could have been executed at a better price during the period in which the LOM was 
not activated.
Furthermore, Equiniti does not make its customers aware of the three minutes delay 
in activating the LOM, so Mr W was unaware of that too.
Overall, Equiniti did not conduct itself fairly and should compensate Mr W. It is not 
possible to know precisely what price his LOs would have been executed at, but for 
Equinitis delay, but the comparator price he has evidenced is persuasive and should 
be used in calculating compensation (with interest) due to him.
Mr W accepted this outcome and shared comments to bolster his complaint and to highlight 
his view that Equinitis position is fundamentally flawed. Equiniti does not accept the 
outcome. It restated its initial views and also said  if Mr W wanted to buy the PZC shares at 
a specific price he could have used either telephone trading or the at Best online trading 
option, but he did neither; and it maintains that its process for LOs is not incorrect (and it 
cannot comment on how other firms apply their process for LOs).
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons.
I consider Equinitis point about telephone trading and the at Best online trading option to 
be arguably irrelevant. Mr W has neither said nor suggested that he sought a specific 
purchase price or that his complaint is about Equinitis execution failing to achieve a specific 
purchase price. His complaint is about Equiniti not providing him with best execution within 
the context of his LOs. 
His entitlement, as Equinitis customer, to best execution in share dealing arose from 
regulation  under the regulators Conduct of Business (COBS) rule, COBS 11  and from 
sections 9.8 to 9.10 of the terms for his account. In practical terms, it required Equiniti to 
execute the LOs at the best price possible. He sought to buy the shares, so the best price 
was the lowest available. This had to be done within the price limit set in the LOs but it 
remained a distinct duty that Equiniti had to discharge. It is not enough for it to rely  as it 
appears to have done  upon the LOs being executed within the price limit set by Mr W. The 
questions remain as to whether (or not) Equiniti failed to execute them at a better price because of its delay and, if so, whether (or not) Equiniti can justify the delay.
Equiniti has provided evidence of tick prices for PZC between 08:00 and 08:10 on 23 
December 2019. It shows  a price high of 197.5090, average of 192.8941 and low of 
189.6110 during those 10 minutes; Ask (buy) prices between 189 and 193.2 during the first 
three minutes; and a steady and quicker increase in the price over the next seven minutes.
Mr Ws first LO (for 5005 shares) was executed at 08:07:41 and at the price of 196.8050; the 
second (for 4020 shares) was executed at 08:07:58 and at the price of 196.7620; and the 
third (for 4750 shares) was executed at 08:08:11 and at the price of 196.7680.
The above evidence establishes that Mr Ws LOs could have been executed at notably 
better prices between 08:00 and 08:03. Based on the tick prices the Ask price for PZC did 
not enter the range of 196 until around 08:06, so execution of the LOs at any time before 
then would have been at a better price. However, in the context of the best execution Mr W 
was entitled to the requirement upon Equiniti was to achieve the best price available.
My finding on Equinitis delay  of between seven and eight minutes after the market opened 
 in the execution of Mr Ws LOs does not suggest that it was strictly obliged to execute 
them precisely at 08:00; but it was obliged to execute them at the best available opportunity 
to do so. Evidence shows that the best prices for the LOs were in the first three minutes after 
market opening. Unless the facts show that Equiniti had a good reason behind the delay the 
conclusion that follows, on balance, is that the LOs ought reasonably to have been executed 
during those three minutes.
The only reason the LOs were not executed in the first three minutes after market opening is 
that they were not activated. The terms Equiniti has cited appear to be irrelevant, given that 
the LOs were not active and then affected by market conditions and given that the matter did 
not relate to priority given to other and earlier LOs or to factors beyond its control. 
Suspension of the LOs was a direct result of its control. As the investigator noted, the LOs 
had absolutely no chance of execution during this time. Yet, in contrast, Mr W reasonably 
expected that they would be active upon market opening and executed, within the price limit 
he set, at the best price that became available. As the investigator also said, no notice was 
given to him about the LOs being inactive for the first three minutes. Had such notice been 
given, he could have made an informed decision about placing the LOs. 
The price comparisons above show that he incurred extra costs in buying the PZC shares 
because of this suspended activation. With disclosure, that was arguably avoidable. If he 
was fully informed about the suspension and if, as his evidence credibly confirms, he wanted 
to give himself the best chance of best execution upon market opening it is more likely (than 
not) that he would have considered alternative options. 
If he had no alternative personal trading account, there is evidence of his access to the 
trading accounts for his family members. I consider it probable that he would have decided 
to use those accounts for his purchase. The contract notes for the comparable trades, in 
those accounts, show that they were all executed at 08:00 and at the price of 189.6314, so 
that would probably have been the same for Mr W if he had used those accounts.
In applying an undisclosed suspension to Mr Ws LOs, which deprived them from exposure 
to the market and to the potential of best prices from the market, Equiniti did not act 
consistently with its best execution obligation. I do not consider that it has provided 
reasonable justification for this. On this basis I uphold his complaint
Contrary to Equinitis view, I am not persuaded that there is a need to know more about the 
comparator trades than is already known. I appreciate Equinitis concerns that the trades were for other people (in their accounts)  not for Mr W  and that they relate to a third-party 
firms accounts and processes. Neither of these facts are in dispute. I confirm that I have 
drawn no conclusions on Equinitis responsibility based on the other firms (or any other 
firms) processes. The basis for my findings is as set out above. 
Putting things right
Mr Ws evidence  which I consider reliable, given the way he and his family members all 
bought PZC shares at the same moment  is that he had a preconceived plan on how he 
wanted to purchase the shares. He wanted to do so within the LOs, with the best chance of 
best execution upon market opening and before the price quickly rose. Based on his 
research, he expected the price to do that. As I said above, if his Equiniti account could not 
facilitate this, he probably would have used his family members accounts instead. He had 
access to them.
I agree with the investigator that the price applied in the comparator trades  189.6314  is 
persuasive evidence for the price that should be applied in calculating Mr Ws compensation. 
I do not suggest that it is the price his LOs would have been executed at, but for Equinitis 
delay. It is impossible to say, with certainty, what that price would have been. However, I 
conclude that for the reasons given above it is a fair price to use in calculating compensation 
for him. 
Equiniti appears to have raised a concern about comparing trade sizes in this respect, but I 
do not share that concern. The contract notes for the comparator trades show the trade 
sizes were 3001, 3502, 3500 and 4006 shares. On balance, I consider that the trade sizes in 
Mr Ws LOs (as stated above) are broadly comparable.
To compensate Mr W fairly, Equiniti must calculate as follows:
The total cost incurred by Mr W in buying the total of 13,775 PZC shares through the 
LOs and at the prices at which the LOs were executed. (a)
The total cost of buying 13,775 PZC shares at the price of 189.6314. (b)
Equiniti must pay Mr W the difference between (a) and (b), plus interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date his purchase of the PZC shares, through Equiniti, settled to 
the date compensation is paid by Equiniti. The interest payment is to compensate him for 
being deprived the financial loss amount since the date his purchase was settled.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I order Equiniti Financial Services 
Limited to compensate him as set out above. Equiniti Financial Services Limited must also 
give him a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman