DRN-4118776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the rates and charges applied by Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax when they exchanged a large amount of euros for pounds.
What happened
In late September 2022, Mr and Mrs S opened an account with Halifax to receive the 
proceeds of sale of their foreign property. The sale was completed in November 2022. 
Mr and Mrs S decided to split the proceeds of sale between Halifax and another bank (C). 
They found that although almost the same amount of money was transferred to each bank, 
they received over £2,300 less with Halifax than with C. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax and it was explained to them that it had applied its 
exchange rate which included a margin of 1.8%. It accepted that they got a better exchange 
rate with C, but as the transfer was carried out in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, Halifax did not consider that it had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs S complained that they had had two long meetings with an adviser at Halifax, 
and the charging of a commission was not disclosed to them. Halifax explained that this was 
a difference between the rates at which it sells and buys currencies. And that all banks will 
charge a marginal rate.
On a referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator agreed that it would have 
been helpful to explain the marginal rate. However as all banks charge such a rate she 
couldn't say that Mr and Mrs S would have done anything different they known about the 
rate.
Mr and Mrs S didn't agree, they explained that they had carried out another transaction with 
C and had been charged that banks exchange rate without commission and with only a 
nominal charge. Had they known about the commission that Halifax charged they would 
have placed the whole proceeds of sale with C. They believe that Halifax should refund to 
them the £2,300 difference
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss concern. As they were transferring a substantial sum of 
money to each bank (but virtually the same amount) they might not have expected such a 
substantial difference in the rates applied so that with Halifax they received over £2,300 less. 
I have listened to the recordings of their two meetings at the bank. The question of exchange 
rates/fees wasnt gone into at either of those meetings. Though Mr and Mrs S are adamant 
that they were discussed. There were some preliminary discussions that took place before 
the recordings started, and Halifax accept that there was some discussion about exchange 
rates. So I think its likely that the commission or marginal rates were not discussed.
That said, although Halifax has described it as a commission, and it does have the effect of 
charging a commission on the sterling amount paid in, the actual difference is between the 
amount Halifax buy the currency at and the amount it sells it at. All banks and currency 
exchange companies will charge different rates between buying and selling. Indeed I note 
that C charges a 4% marginal rate.
Mr and Mrs S say that there is no explanation of the marginal rates in the leaflets they 
received. Halifax has shown us an extract from its terms and conditions, which is on its 
website and which sets out:
Our standard exchange rate includes a margin. The table below provides an indication of 
the margin which is the difference between the standard exchange rate and the rate at which 
we buy and sell currency in the foreign exchange markets (the wholesale rate).
The table sets out the current marginal rate, which is a range depending upon the amount 
transferred. And there is a calculator where the customer can input the amount being 
exchanged to arrive at the exact marginal rate which will be applied.
The website does give a number that the customer can call to find the current exchange 
rate, seven days a week. I note that Mr and Mrs S did check the exchange rate online prior 
to transfer but they tell us this was the banks (all banks) official exchange rate, not that of 
the Halifax as they presumed they would receive the official bank exchange rate given the 
charge written in the booklet. If they referring to the Bank of Englands daily spot rate this is 
for guidance only and it does explain that the exchange rates are not official rates and are no 
more authoritative than that of any commercial bank operating in the London foreign 
exchange market.
All banks charge different exchange rates. So I don't think it likely that C or any other bank 
would set their exchange rate in line with the Bank of Englands rate without charging an 
additional marginal rate.
So while Mr and Mrs S could have been told about the marginal rate, I think this comes 
down to the difference between what exchange rates the different banks applied at the time. 
As far as I can see no exchange rates were actually discussed at the meetings except to say 
that the rates fluctuate from day-to-day. As both banks charge a marginal rate I don't find 
that Halifax applied any extra charges to the transaction. And as Mr and Mrs S could have 
contacted Halifax for the rate it was charging on the day, I don't find it was unfair for Halifax 
to charge its daily exchange rate inclusive of the 1% marginal rates.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman