DRN-3234422
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire agreement financed 
by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi 
FS).
Mrs K is being represented in this complaint by Mr A. But for ease of reference Ill refer to 
Mrs K directly throughout my decision.   
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs K acquired a new car through a hire agreement. 
In July 2020 Mrs K reported that the media system wasnt working, and that the car was 
vibrating whilst it was idle. A manufacturer garage replaced the servo unit, vacuum sensor 
and carried out a wiring repair. 
In September 2020 the manufacturer garage replaced scratched interior trims, corrected the 
bonnet alignment and replaced the passenger door handle. 
In November 2020 Mrs K complained about the engine judder and explained that shed 
replaced the tyres, but this hadnt resolved the problem. The garage looked at Mrs Ks car, 
but no faults were found. 
In December 2020 Mrs K complained to Audi FS. She said she no longer wanted the car due 
to the faults and didnt feel safe driving it. 
In January 2021 Mrs K took the car to the manufacturer garage as the engine was juddering 
and had cut out whilst she was driving. The garage noted that the engine was misfiring at 
idle and wouldnt restart. They found no stored fault codes but replaced a fuel pressure 
sensor and tightened it. The car was road tested and the garage reported that the judder had 
been resolved. 
Mrs K told Audi FS that the judder of the engine was still apparent. 
Audi FS sent Mrs K their final response to her complaint in January 2021. They said the 
available evidence suggested that the fault had been fixed, and they didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mrs K. She thought that the fault was likely still present, and that Mrs K should be 
able to reject the car. She recommended that Audi FS collect the car at no cost to Mrs K and 
end the agreement with nothing further to pay, refund Mrs Ks deposit and pay Mrs K £150 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience of having the car looked at on a 
number of occasions. 
In November 2021 Mrs K told us that there had been further issues with the car, and a new 
sump had been fitted. She explained that the car had gone into limp mode, and the engine 
management light was on. 
Audi FS didnt accept our investigators recommendations but carried out an inspection of the 
vehicle to identify any ongoing faults. 
The inspection was completed in November 2021. The report identified that there were 
historic fault codes that couldnt be cleared, the engine management light was illuminated 
throughout the test drive, and the engine was slightly noisy at idle, but this seemed to be 
commensurate with a diesel engine. 
The report concluded that as the issues were first reported 10 months after Mrs K acquiring 
the car, they were unlikely to have been present when it was supplied. 
Our investigator maintained her previous recommendations. She explained that the evidence 
showed Mrs K reported the problems before the 10 months, repairs had been attempted, 
and these had failed, so Mrs K was now able to reject the car. 
Audi FS accepted our investigators recommendations to reject the vehicle, end the 
agreement and pay Mrs K £150 compensation. But they said Mrs K hadnt paid a deposit, 
but an initial rental. This sum is paid at the beginning of the contract, and was chosen by Mrs 
K. A higher initial rental means lower monthly payments, and so any refund should be pro-
rated. 
Our investigator accepted this, but Mrs K didnt agree. She said shed entered an agreement 
for a new car, and shed had a bad experience with it and didnt feel safe driving it. Mrs K 
wants all of her monthly payments to be refunded. 
Our investigator told Mrs K she thought it was fair for Audi FS to keep the monthly payments, 
as Mrs K had fair usage of the car despite the faults. She asked Audi FS if theyd be willing 
to refund any of Mrs Ks monthly payments. They confirmed that Mrs K had travelled more 
than 16,000 miles in the car, so shed had fair use of it, and this mileage is more than theyd 
expect to see at this point in the contract, given the contracted annual allowance of 8,000 
miles, so they said shes had more use of the vehicle than she expected to have when 
entering the agreement. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Audi FS as the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement 
is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was supplied new, so I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect the level of quality to be higher than that of a second hand, older, or higher mileage 
car, and that it should be free from even minor defects, for a considerable period of time. 
There have been a number of repairs completed to the vehicle, including scratched internal 
trims and a replacement sump. So, Audi FS have had an opportunity to return the vehicle to 
a satisfactory condition by way of repair. 
Mrs K first highlighted an issue with the engine vibration in July 2020. There have been 
several repairs undertaken to try and resolve this issue, but the most recent report in 
November 2021 highlights that there are still faults with the vehicle, the most prominent of 
which is that the engine management light is illuminated. 
I dont think, that at less than two years old and having covered around 16,000 miles, a 
reasonable person would expect to be experiencing the number of ongoing faults reported 
with this car, particularly when it was supplied new. 
So, Im satisfied that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to 
Mrs K. So, its reasonable to expect Audi FS to allow Mrs K to reject the vehicle. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Audi FS should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Audi have completed a number of repairs in respect of this vehicle, and faults remain. 
Ive explained why I think Mrs K should be allowed her final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mrs K, the agreement is brought to an end, any adverse 
information should be removed from Mrs Ks credit file, and Mrs K has her initial rental 
refunded (plus interest). 
Mrs K paid an initial rental on the vehicle, and the effect of this is that it reduces the monthly 
payments she needs to make though the life of the agreement. So, the refund of this should 
be pro-rated. 
Mrs K has asked for all of her monthly payments to be refunded. Mrs K has had continued 
use of the vehicle since entering the agreement and has been able to travel approximately 
16,000 miles in the car. If Mrs K didnt have this car, she wouldve needed alternative 
transport, and wouldve needed to fund this. So, I think its fair that Mrs K pays for the use 
shes had of the vehicle. I think her monthly rental payments reflect this use, and so its fair 
for Audi FS to keep these. 
Our investigator recommended that Audi FS pay Mrs K £150 compensation. Mrs K has been 
put to distress and inconvenience in arranging for a number of repairs to the vehicle. Overall, Im satisfied that this compensation reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by 
Mrs K.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (Audi FS) must: 
End the agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mrs K
Refund Mrs Ks initial rental on a pro-rated basis, plus 8% simple yearly interest, 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs K £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ks credit file. 
If Audi FS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman