DRN-3473670
The complaint
Mr E says HSBC UK Bank Plc treated him unfairly regarding complaints hed made in 
relation to his current account. He also says it unfairly closed his account after events (some 
of which are disputed) that took place at one of its branches.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr E visited a branch of HSBC to ask about two existing complaints hed 
already raised with it. The parties dont entirely agree on what took place at the branch, 
although its clear Mr E spoke to the branch manager after which a security team and then 
the police attended the scene. Mr E was escorted out of the branch by the police. 
Based on those events, HSBC closed Mr Es account. Mr E ultimately complained to us 
about the behaviour of the branch manager saying he wanted significant compensation for 
the impact of their actions on him. He denied that hed been aggressive or rude towards 
HSBCs staff either in person or over the phone as HSBC claimed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that this service couldnt consider 
Mr Es complaint about how HSBC had handled his complaints. But they said we could 
consider his complaint about the closure of his account. Regarding that, the investigator 
believed it wasnt unfair for HSBC to have acted as it had in the circumstances based on 
both parties accounts of the events and the call recordings between Mr E and HSBC theyd 
listened to. So, the investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do pay Mr E any compensation.
Mr E was unhappy with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Primarily, Mr E wasnt happy that HSBC hadnt provided 
a copy of the CCTV footage of his branch visit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr Es raised a number of concerns about HSBC. Id like to assure Mr E that 
Ive thought about everything hes told us. But Im not required to address each and every 
issue thats been raised. Nor do I think that would be particularly helpful. Instead, this 
decision focusses solely on the issues that I consider go to the heart of the complaint. 
HSBCs handling of Mr Es previous complaints
This service doesnt have the power to consider all types of complaint brought to us. This 
aspect of Mr Es complaint isnt one that we can consider. Ill explain why. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Handbook. 
These rules are called the Dispute Resolution Handbook (DISP). 
DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities we can look into complaints about. Most relevantly to this 
complaint, we can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction as long as it 
relates to an act or omission by a financial business in carrying out regulated or other 
activities which are specified in the rules. We can also consider a complaint about an activity 
thats ancillary to those activities.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity or one of the other types of activity specified in 
the rules. So, it isnt something we can consider a complaint about. 
Ive thought about, whether in Mr Es case, the complaint handling he complains about was 
ancillary to an activity that we can consider a complaint about. Having done so, I dont think 
it is. Mr Es underlying problem relates to banking (technically accepting deposits) but 
complaint handling is separate from, and not integral to, that activity.
I think theres a clear distinction between Mr Es issues with how HSBC handled his 
complaints and its subsequent administration of his account. 
That said, Im able to consider that other aspect of Mr Es complaint as it relates to the 
administration of his current account, which is regulated. Ill go on to consider that now.
HSBCs administration of Mr Es account
On this issue, let me say that I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr E to 
discover his account would be closed. Ive reviewed the account terms and conditions and, 
most relevantly in this case, they explain how the customer can end the agreement. Equally, 
they also set out how HSBC might end the agreement. In particular, the terms say:
Sometimes we can end the agreement and close your accounts straight away and 
not give you any notice. Well only do this if certain things happen. Weve set these 
out below.

Youve behaved inappropriately either to us or when using our services. For 
example, you acted abusively, offensively or violently towards employees
It seems HSBC took the decision to close Mr Es account following his branch visit of late 
2021. I cant say for sure what happened at the branch. On several occasions Mr Es asked 
us to obtain CCTV footage from HSBC to support his account of the events. The 
investigators made several requests for it but unfortunately HSBC says it doesnt hold a 
copy and cant provide it. 
I understand Mr Es frustration that the footage hasnt been provided. Hes provided 
information from the internet to show banks ought to keep footage for six months. But that 
article appears to relate to Singapore as opposed to the UK. In any case, its not for me to 
say whether HSBC did or didnt retain the footage for as long as it should have  or to 
somehow punish HSBC in this regard. I can only proceed on the information I have. I 
acknowledge that the footage may well have been useful in helping me reach my decision 
on this case. Nevertheless, the fact is I havent seen any footage and so I must decide the 
case without it.  
In the absence of the CCTV footage, Ive thought very carefully about the remaining 
information. On the one hand, theres Mr Es testimony through phone calls with this service 
including a call he made to us two days after his branch visit. On the other hand, we have a 
copy of HSBCs account notes from that time and a statement made by the branch manager 
that spoke to Mr E dated 12 days after the visit in question. My overall impression is that Mr E didnt set out to intimidate, threaten or abuse the branch 
manager or other HSBC staff. But I think theres more to this than just what Mr E did or didnt 
intend. Theres a human element to this that shouldnt be ignored. Namely, that Mr Es words 
and actions had an impact on the branch manager and HSBCs staff. The branch manager 
said Mr E was shouting and swearing and I see little reason for them to say that unless that 
was their perception. 
Due to the perceived abuse and aggression, the branch manager called security who 
remained on the scene while waiting for the police to arrive. I gather Mr E then attended 
other HSBC branches and staff there also felt Mr E was aggressive. It seems Mr E also 
visited the branch manager at another branch in the week they made their statement. 
In the statement, the branch manager says theyve worked in the branch network for many 
years yet hadnt felt as unnerved as theyd felt in dealing with Mr E.
Ive also listened to call recordings between Mr E and HSBC  albeit mostly from after the 
branch visit in question  in which he maintains he wasnt aggressive or abusive. Having 
listened to the calls, some of which involve Mr E swearing, shouting and speaking out of 
turn, I can see how his behaviour on occasion could nevertheless have been considered as 
such. 
Taking everything into account, I think it was fair for HSBC to close Mr Es account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. That being the case, I dont think HSBC needs 
to pay Mr E any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while recognising Mr Es strength of feeling on the matter, Ive 
decided not to uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman