DRN-4405247
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly agreed two loans for him.
What happened
Barclays agreed two loans for Mr C in 2018. He had previously borrowed from Barclays in 
2017 but hasnt complained about those loans. Ive summarised some of the available 
information about Mr Cs borrowing in the table below. 
Loan 
number Start date End dateAmount 
borrowedTotal owedMonthly 
repaymentLoan term 
(months)
1 13/07/2017 26/11/2017 £6,500 £7,562 £158 48
2 20/11/2017 25/04/2018 £13,000 £15,262 £254 60
3 19/04/2018 11/12/2018 £13,500 £15,848 £264 60
4 06/12/2018 outstanding £15,000 £17,648 £294 60
I understand each of Mr Cs loans was refinanced into the next and his fourth loan is still 
outstanding. He met his payments on time until mid-2022, apart from a period of deferred 
payments during the pandemic. 
Mr C complained to Barclays about his 2018 loans. He said that the loans were unaffordable 
for him and he survived by borrowing from credit cards to pay other debts. Mr C said that he 
was in a debt management plan when Barclays agreed his loan in April 2018 and had 
numerous other credit and store cards. He said Barclays would have known about his other 
debts because he paid them from his Barclays current account. Mr C said he used this loan 
to repay his credit card debt which he soon ran up again because he only ever made the 
minimum repayment. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it carried out a proportionate check before 
lending to him each time and found that the loans would be affordable for him. 
Mr C referred his complaint to us. Our investigator found that had Barclays carried out 
proportionate checks it would have agreed both loans for Mr C in 2018 as it seemed the 
repayments would be affordable for him. They didnt recommend that his complaint be 
upheld. Mr C asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman for review and its come to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Barclays, need to abide by. 
Barclays will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them 
where appropriate. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Barclays needed to check that Mr C could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks Barclays carried out needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the 
amount borrowed or the term, for example) and to Mr Cs particular circumstances. The 
overarching requirement was that Barclays needed to pay due regard to Mr Cs interests and 
treat him fairly. CONC gave an example of contravening this as targeting customers with 
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, 
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Barclays complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs applications to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Barclays make 
fair lending decisions? 
Barclays said to Mr C in its final response that it relied heavily on what hed said about his 
income and expenditure to assess his loan applications. Barclays provided us with the 
figures declared by Mr C in his applications but little else about its checks. Barclays also said 
to Mr C in its final response that other credit was showing during the application process but 
there didn't appear to be any arrears to be considered and no defaulted debt could be seen. 
Ive assumed therefore that Barclays also relied on information from Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C provided the following figures in his application for his December 2018 loan, and Ive 
assumed those provided in his April 2018 application were similar. 
Income: £2,000
Housing: £0
Council Tax: £0
Utility: £0
Other: £1,302
Barclays loan 3: £264 (or £254 for Loan 2 for the April application) 
Non-Barclays borrowing: £150
The regulations at the time stated that it wasnt generally sufficient for a lender to rely solely 
on a customers statement of current income in a creditworthiness assessment. Mr Cs 
wages were paid into his Barclays bank account and so the bank had access to this 
information. It would have seen that Mr Cs income was as hed said so further consideration 
of this figure wouldnt have revealed an inconsistency. A check on his expenses would have 
also confirmed the figures hed given were broadly what he spent. 
Mr C provided a recent copy of his credit file which shows he had six active accounts at the 
time of his April loan, including a Barclays credit card, with combined balances of around 
£4,000. As Barclays said there was no adverse information recorded against his accounts. 
Mr C said that he was in a debt management plan at the time but theres no evidence of this 
on his credit file or evidence of arrangements for reduced payments on any of his accounts. 
Ive assumed that the plan had been running for some time prior to this loan and that any 
debts included in it were no longer showing on Mr Cs credit file. I havent seen any 
payments from Mr Cs bank account into a payment plan and I dont think its likely that 
Barclays would have known about this unless Mr C raised it. Altogether, I cant say that there was anything in the information Barclays relied on about 
Mr Cs circumstances that should have led it to decline this loan application or should have 
prompted it to complete further checks before entering into the agreement. There were no 
obvious signs of financial difficulty in the information Barclays relied on and the loan 
repayments werent so large relative to Mr Cs means that they were clearly unaffordable. I 
havent found that Barclays lent irresponsibly on this occasion. 
Mr C gave the above income and expenses when he applied for his December loan. As 
before, had Barclays verified Mr Cs income figure it would have found that it was as hed 
said. A check on his expenses would have also confirmed the figures hed given were 
broadly what he spent, though I can see from his bank statements that he was paying more 
on his debts, about £200 on average in the months prior to this final loan. 
By December 2018, Mr C had opened two new accounts and his non-Barclays borrowing 
was higher at around £6,500 altogether. I can see from his credit file that his Barclaycard 
balance was zero and, as before, there was no adverse information recorded against his 
account. Mr C used the additional capital borrowed in December towards three of his credit 
cards and so I dont think Barclays increased the overall amount of debt Mr C owed. For the 
same reasons Ive given above, I dont think Barclays lent irresponsibly here. 
I have thought about whether Barclays treated Mr C fairly by agreeing these loans. After all 
hed borrowed twice before in 2017 and each loan had been refinanced into the next, so it 
doesnt seem to me that Mr C had made any inroads into his debt with the bank over the 18 
months or so hed been making repayments to it. Mr C said he used the original loan to clear 
the balances on his credit cards but he continued to spend on them and so his overall debt 
increased. As Id noted above Mr Cs debt had increased in the period between his two loans 
in 2018. However, I dont think I can say it had increased to the point that it was obvious 
further lending was going to be unaffordable for him and hed need to borrow to repay it, or 
that he was indebted to the extent that it was clear further lending was unsuitable for him. 
Mr C made his repayments on time for these loans until mid-2022. He explained that he lost 
his job and found it impossible to meet his debt repayments. He shared with us that his 
debts have seriously impacted on his mental health over the years and he is in financial 
difficulty. I am very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr C is facing with his finances and with 
his health. I am also sorry that I am not able to offer him the outcome he was hoping for on 
his complaint. I hope Ive clearly explained how Ive reached my decision. I would remind 
Barclays of its obligation to treat Mr C with forbearance and due consideration regarding his 
outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman