DRN-4059893
The complaint
Miss E complains that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet 
Insurance Services (Autonet) referred her to an accident management company when she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss E had a motor insurance policy with Autonet (a broker), underwritten by an insurer Ill 
call X. When she was involved in an accident, she made a claim for the damage caused.
Miss E called the number on her policy documents and thought she was speaking with 
Autonet. But Autonet said it employed an AMC to answer and deal with the calls. The AMC 
then arranged for Miss Es car to be looked at, but ultimately deemed some of the damage 
she was claiming for as unrelated to the accident.
Miss E wasnt happy with this decision and complained about it. It was at this point she 
realised shed not been dealing with Autonet or X. And she found that when she was 
unhappy with the AMCs response to her complaint, she wasnt able to refer that complaint 
to us.
Our Investigator thought Autonet hadnt done enough to show us it gave Miss E information 
about her options when making a claim in a clear and balanced way. They therefore thought 
that Autonets referral to the AMC was unfair.
Our Investigator said they couldnt say whether Miss Es car would have been repaired had 
she claimed on her own insurance policy with Autonet and X. But they thought Autonet 
should compensate her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by finding out she 
wasnt dealing with her insurer.
Autonet disagreed. It said it shouldnt be held accountable for the AMCs actions and thinks 
the AMC acted in its own capacity. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that when Miss E called to make her claim she thought she was calling 
Autonet. She called the number listed in her policy and that number is clearly 
described as Autonets number.
Autonet is entitled to appoint another business to deal with its calls. But where it does 
so, that other business is acting as an agent of Autonet. Its not acting in its own 
capacity. Its answering and dealing with calls for Autonet, and so Autonet is 
ultimately responsible for that other businesss actions when carrying out this activity.
I appreciate Autonet says the AMC was acting in its own right. And the AMC is 
capable of acting in its own capacity. But Im not satisfied it was doing so here. As 
mentioned, it was answering a call made to a number in an Autonet policy, labelled 
as Autonets number.
Ive seen no evidence to show the AMC made it clear to Miss E that it was acting in 
its own capacity and wasnt dealing with her claim on Autonets behalf.
Further, Ive been provided no evidence to show Miss E was informed of her options 
in making this claim let alone that these options were made in a clear and balanced 
way, clearly setting out the benefits and potential drawbacks of each.
Without this evidence I cant possibly be satisfied the referral to the AMC was fair.
Like our investigator, I cant say whether Miss Es car would have been repaired had 
she claimed on her own policy with Autonet and X. But Im satisfied that finding out 
you werent claiming on your own policy and had no recourse by way of referring any 
complaint about the repairs to your car to us would have been distressing and 
inconvenient.
Im satisfied £200 compensation is reasonable compensation for this distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require ATLANTA 
1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet Insurance Services
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman