DRN-3303323
The complaint
Miss G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank) hasnt provided 
her with the service it should have in regard to her credit card account and has unfairly 
recorded adverse information on her credit file.
What happened
Miss G says M&S Bank placed negative information on her credit file even though she had 
maintained contact with it and agreed a repayment plan. She says it sent her a default letter 
when it shouldnt have, and she had to borrow money to prevent a default being applied. 
Miss G says that M&S Bank didnt consider her needs and while it admitted to several errors 
it made no effort to contact her to discuss these and credited her account with £150 without 
her agreement. Miss G says that although she had thought the missed payment had been 
removed from her credit file she then found other credit reference agencies reporting 
adverse information about her account including it being in default. She wants her credit file 
amended, an apology and compensation for the upset caused.
M&S Bank issued a final response letter in April 2021 addressing the issue of a default letter 
being sent. It apologised for the concern this caused and explained that a payment break 
had been put in place on Miss Gs account in December 2020 for three months following 
which a payment plan for £65 a month was put in place in March for six months. It said the 
payment plan wasnt set up correctly and a default letter was sent. It noted that Miss G had 
paid £1,000 in April and this had brought her account up to date, so the payment plan had 
finished. However, it said that if the £1,000 payment had been made to prevent the default 
and this meant Miss G couldnt resume her contractual payments she should contact it to 
discuss a new repayment plan. It said that the default had been paused and paid her £150 
for the confusion and poor service she had received. 
Following further questions regarding the credit file information, M&S Bank said that it had 
recorded accurately the situation when Miss G was in the payment arrangements. It said it 
had told Miss G that this information would be recorded when the payment arrangements 
were agreed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that a mistake had been made when 
the payment plan was set up in March 2021 and this resulted in a default notice being 
incorrectly sent. However, he thought the £150 compensation paid at that time was 
reasonable. He was satisfied that M&S bank had adhered to the regulators guidance for 
people experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic and that it 
had acted with forbearance and due consideration.
Regarding the credit file issues, our investigator said that M&S Bank had provided details of 
the information it was reporting to the credit reference agencies and this showed no default 
had been recorded. He said the information recorded at the time showed that Miss G was in 
a payment arrangement which was accurate and that Miss G was told that this information 
would be recorded. Therefore, he didnt think that M&S Bank had done anything wrong.
Miss G didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that a missed payment had 
been incorrectly applied to her account in April 2021 and that further adverse information 
had been recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this situation has been upsetting for Miss G and can understand why it was 
particularly difficult given the uncertainty and stress she was experiencing due to the 
pandemic. 
Miss G contacted M&S Bank about her financial situation and explained that she wasnt able 
to make her contractual payments. In such situations we would expect a finance provider to 
act sympathetically and fairly in working with its customer. I can see that income and 
expenditure assessments took place. A payment break was put in place in December 2020 
for three months and then a payment plan was agreed in March 2021 for six months. I find 
these actions fair and reasonable based on the income and expenditure assessments and 
Miss Gs situation. 
A payment plan was set up in March 2021 with the first payment due on 7 April. Miss G was 
told she would receive certain regulatory notices such as notices of arrears but that she 
wouldnt receive a default notice. However, as the payment plan wasnt set up correctly, 
Miss G did receive a default notice dated 15 March. I can understand how upsetting this 
must have been. M&S Bank accepted that a mistake had been and paid Miss G £150 for the 
confusion caused and poor service. As the default wasnt applied and the mistake was 
accepted, I find that the £150 paid was reasonable.
Miss G made a payment of £1,000 in April 2021 which cleared her arrears, so her payment 
plan was no longer in place. I note Miss Gs comment about this payment but I also can see 
that in its final response letter M&S Bank said that had this payment been made in response 
to the default letter and the contractual payments werent affordable for Miss G she should 
get in touch to discuss a new payment plan. I find this reasonable.
The outstanding issue relates to the information recorded on Miss Gs credit file. I have 
looked through the extracts provided by Miss G including the extract from a credit report 
provider which records her M&S Bank account as being delinquent with a default balance. I 
note this credit report also has the payment history for the account showing an arrangement 
in place in January and February 2021, a missed payment in March 2021 and then the 
account being OK for the following months. 
M&S Bank has provided the information it has reported. This shows the account was 
reported as being in an arrangement from December 2020 to February 2021 and three 
months in arrears in March 2021. Following this the account is recorded as OK.
As Miss G had a payment break in place from December 2020 to March 2021, and the letter 
confirming this explained that this would be reported as an arrangement to the credit 
reference agencies, I do not find that M&S Bank did anything wrong by providing that 
information. The account was in arrears in March 2021 and this was reflected in the credit 
information. As the information provided by M&S bank gave an accurate reflection of the 
account at the time, and Miss G was told the information would be recorded with the credit 
reference agencies, I do not find that I can say it has done anything wrong.
I note the information recorded with the credit report provider about the account being delinquent but as I do not find that the evidence supports M&S providing inaccurate 
information I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman