DRN-3230907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax misled them as to 
whether an early repayment charge (ERC) was payable if they sold their house. They ask 
that it refunds the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Halifax. They were in the process of selling their house. 
Their buyer asked if they could complete before the end of June 2021 to take advantage of 
the temporary reduction in stamp duty. Mr and Mrs S say they asked Halifax whether an 
ERC would be payable using Halifaxs web chat and were told there would be no ERC. After 
completion of the sale, they found out that an ERC of about £3,000 had been applied.
Mr and Mrs S say if theyd been given correct information theyd have waited until the 
product expired, about a month later. They said they were left short of funds for their 
purchase. 
Our investigator said while the information on the web chat was incorrect, Mr and Mrs S had 
been told about the ERC when they took out the product and in their annual statements. The 
redemption statements sent to their solicitor also set out the ERC. The investigator said 
Halifaxs payment of £350 compensation for the upset caused by the wrong information in 
the web chat was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said they acted on the information given to them by Halifax, 
which resulted in them paying the ERC. They said they didnt see the redemption statement. 
Mr and Mrs S said they would have waited until the following month to sell the property if 
theyd not been misled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out a fixed interest rate mortgage product in 2019 which included an 
ERC. This applied until 31 July 2021. Mr and Mrs S agreed to the ERC when they took out 
the product. They repaid the mortgage during the product term and Halifax applied the ERC, 
as it was entitled to do under the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs S said their buyer asked if they could complete the sale before the end of June 
2021, to take advantage of the temporary reduction in stamp duty. Mr and Mrs S contacted 
Halifax in mid-June 2021. They used web chat due to high call volumes. They say they 
asked if any ERC would apply if they repaid their mortgage before the product expired and 
were told no penalty would apply. Mr and Mrs S provided a screen shot of the reply saying 
no penalty would apply. This didnt show the question they asked, or the discussion prior to 
the reply. Halifax hasnt been able to trace the web chat.
It's unfortunate that neither party can provide a complete record of the discussion on the web 
chat. I cant see the question that was asked, a date or an account number on the screen 
shot, and the address in the screen shot isnt the address of the security property. I hope Mr 
and Mrs S will understand that its difficult for me to say for certain that Halifax made an error 
without knowing exactly what question it was responding to. 
However, based on the screen shot provided by Mr and Mrs S Halifax accepted it made an 
error and paid £300 compensation. So I have to decide if this is fair and reasonable. Or if, as 
Mr and Mrs S say, its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs S say it was unfair for Halifax to apply the ERC after telling them no penalty 
applied. They said they didnt need to complete before the product expired and this only 
benefited their buyer. They say if theyd known theyd have to pay the ERC theyd have 
waited until after the product expired.
I understand the points made by Mr and Mrs S. But I dont think I can fairly find that Halifax 
didnt tell them an ERC was payable. 
Halifax provided a copy of the product offer which Mr and Mrs S accepted in 2019. This set 
out the ERC and said it applied until 31 July 2021.
Halifax sent annual statements to Mr and Mrs S. The annual statement sent in April 2021 
said an ERC of about £3,000 was payable until 31 July 2021. Mr and Mrs S must have been 
thinking about moving at this time because their solicitor asked for a redemption statement in 
April 2021. So I think its reasonable to expect them to have taken notice of the costs of 
repaying the mortgage.
Halifax sent two redemptions statements to Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors. One redemption 
statement was sent in April for a redemption date in April 2021. And the second was sent in 
June for a redemption date in June 2021. Both set out an ERC of about £3,000. 
While Mr and Mrs S say their solicitor didnt send them the redemption statements, I dont 
think Halifax was responsible for this. I think its reasonable for Halifax to expect Mr and 
Mrs S and their solicitor to be in contact about the sale, including the cost of repaying the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say they used the web chat to get the final statement and final 
position on the ERC before agreeing to the completion date. But its the redemption 
statement that sets out the amount required to redeem the mortgage.
Halifax accepts that the information it provided in the web chat was wrong. I think its right 
that Halifax pays compensation for this. But I dont think I can fairly find that Halifax didnt 
make Mr and Mrs S aware of the ERC. Santander provided correct information a few days 
after the web chat when it sent the redemption statement to their solicitor. And it had also 
provided correct information in the product offer, annual statement and the previous 
redemption statement.
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to refund the ERC. 
Halifax apologised and paid £300 for the upset caused by the incorrect information provided 
in the web chat. In the circumstances, I think thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman