DRN-2834589
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has refused their claim 
for a cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs S took out an annual multi trip travel policy with Admiral in September 2019, 
which provided cover for trips that took place from 27 September 2019 until 26 September 
2020.
In January 2020, Mr P and Mrs S booked a multi destination long haul trip using several 
different travel providers. They were due to travel in June 2020. Following the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but essential travel abroad due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, their airline cancelled their flights - so the trip was cancelled.
Mr P and Mrs S contacted the individual providers to obtain refunds on the costs they had 
paid. One hotel (which I will call M) only provided a refund of 90% of the costs but did offer a 
voucher for the remaining 10% of the costs. Mr P and Mrs S didnt accept the voucher.
Another travel provider (which I will call B) said it would retain 20% of the cost if the trip was 
cancelled  as per its terms and conditions. However, if Mr P and Mrs S changed the dates 
of travel instead, B agreed to transfer the whole cost. Mr P and Mrs S said they didnt know 
when they would be able to make this trip again, so they chose to cancel the arrangements  
they received a refund of 80% of the cost.
Mr P and Mrs S submitted a claim to Admiral for the amounts not refunded. But Admiral 
declined their claim and said that the policy only provides cover for irrecoverable costs. As 
Mr P and Mrs S had been offered vouchers for the hotel and a chance to rebook the other 
part of their trip, it said the costs could be recovered elsewhere and therefore it wasnt 
covered by the policy.
 
Unhappy with this, Mr P and Mrs S complained to Admiral and brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter and said that, as M had offered a voucher for 
the remainder of the hotel costs, she didnt think these costs were irrecoverable. She said 
that, unless the terms of use of the voucher were so restrictive that they would be 
unreasonable, she didnt think it was fair to ask Admiral to cover this cost. 
But in relation to the costs retained by B, our investigator said Admiral should cover the 
outstanding amount. She found that B only offered the option of moving the booking to a 
later date, as long as Mr P and Mrs S didnt cancel the trip. She said that as Mr P and Mrs S 
didnt know when they would be able to travel again, they cancelled the booking. As no 
voucher was offered for the remaining amount, our investigator said she believed these 
costs to be non-recoverable.
Mr P and Mrs S accepted our investigators view. But Admiral didnt. It reiterated that, whilst 
the 20% deposit was non-refundable, Mr P and Mrs S were offered the option to move their 
holiday in order to save this money, but they made the decision to cancel instead. As they 
had been offered an alternative, Admiral said the loss of the deposit is not covered by the 
policy.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr P and Mrs S have accepted the investigators view in relation to the 
voucher that has been awarded by M. As this is no longer in dispute, I will only be 
considering the complaint relating to the 20% deposit retained by B in this decision.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr P and Mrs Ss complaint.
The policy Mr P and Mrs S took out includes terms and conditions relating to the cover 
provided. The relevant parts are as follows:
Section 2: Cancelling or cutting short your trip
1. What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for irrecoverable costs 
you have paid or must legally pay at the time you became aware of the need to cancel or 
cut short your trip, including:
deposits or package holiday cancellation charges
accommodation and travel costs
car hire
excursions and activities
reasonable cancellation charges for kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs
car parking fees
General Exclusions
The following general exclusions apply to the whole policy:
We will not pay any claim resulting from:
[]
11. Recoverable losses
Any losses or expenses that you can recover from elsewhere, or are more specificallyinsured by another insurance policy
Admiral explained that in light of the unprecedented circumstances they had agreed to waive 
the restriction in the policy on an ex-gratia basis for customers who have no other means of 
obtaining a refund, credit voucher or amendment of their holiday to a later date. So the key 
issue for me to decide is whether the loss is recoverable or not.
Admiral has said that, as Mr P and Mrs S had been given an option to rebook the trip, the 
cost was recoverable  and therefore not covered by the policy. But Mr P and Mrs S say 
they couldnt have rebooked for a later date as the advice not to travel was for an indefinite 
period at that time - which meant they had no option but to cancel. I can see both points of 
view here. But what is important is whether the option available to Mr P and Mrs S was fair 
and gave them a reasonable opportunity to recover their loss. Ive thought about this point 
carefully, but Im not persuaded that in these circumstances it would be fair to consider this 
as a recoverable loss. Ill explain why.
Ive seen copies of email correspondence between Mr P and Mrs S and an employee at B. 
These emails say that they could only recover the money if they agreed to postpone the trip 
to a later date. There was no offer of a voucher or credit note which could be used at a later 
date for a future booking  the emails suggest Mr P and Mrs S needed to agree new travel 
dates at that point. It is important to note that Mr P and Mrs S were being asked to make this 
decision at a time when the advice from the FCO against such travel was still in place and 
there was no known date as to when international travel would be allowed again. Taking all 
of this into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to not want to commit to 
another set of dates for travel. 
Im also satisfied that Mr P and Mrs S have taken reasonable steps to recover their losses  
they engaged with the provider by email and phone to try and get a refund. Theyd paid a 
significant sum for this part of the trip. So, I can understand why they would have wanted to 
try to recover as much of the cost as they could at such an uncertain time. And by doing so it 
is possible they may have mitigated the loss for Admiral, as the cancellation charges 
increased as they moved closer to the departure date. The trip also involved a number of 
different components which would need to be re-organised around the stay at B.
So, when taking into consideration the specific and individual facts relating to this complaint, 
Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Mr P and Mrs S to decide to cancel the trip when 
they did. Whilst there was an option for them to recover the retained deposit, the restricted 
terms of that offer made it unsuitable for their circumstances. Im satisfied that this is an 
irrecoverable loss and that Admiral should reimburse this part of their claim. 
Putting things right
Admiral needs to do the following:
pay Mr P and Mrs Ss claim relating to the 20% retained deposit taken as a 
cancellation charge by B  taking into account any deduction for policy excesses if 
applicable;
pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to put things right as outlined.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman