DRN-3585459
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd dealt with a
claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H was involved in an accident in her car so called Berkshire to claim on her policy. As
Miss H said she wasnt at fault for the accident Berkshire passed her details to another
company (who Ill refer to as P) to provide her with a hire car. Berkshire then dealt with the
claim for the damage to Miss Hs car under her policy.
Berkshire reviewed Miss Hs claim and said her car was what is known as a total loss.
Because of this Berkshire offered her the market value for her car. Miss H wanted to decide
whether to repair her car herself, so asked Berkshire to let her know the extent of the
damage before accepting the total loss offer. Miss H also received a bill from P saying Miss
H needed to pay them £1,529.37 for the hire car as she had been found to be at fault for the
accident. Miss H wasnt happy with how Berkshire were dealing with her claim and
complained. She said she was being pursued for hire car costs which she didnt agree with.
Miss H also said the total loss offer was too low and Berkshire hadnt let her know the extent
of the damage to her car. Miss H also complained about Berkshire holding her at fault for the
accident.
Berkshire reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the agreement for the hire
car was between P and Miss H so didnt think it was anything to do with them. They also
said from reviewing CCTV footage of the accident they didnt think this was a claim they
could defend. Berkshire also said theyd made Miss H a total loss offer and let her know how
much they would deduct if she kept the car and said theyd only not paid the settlement as
Miss H hadnt provided her bank details or confirmed if she wished to keep her car.
Miss H didnt agree with Berkshires response to her complaint and referred it here.
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found
that Berkshire had referred Miss H to P when they should have known Miss H was likely to
be held at fault for the accident. She also found that Berkshire had valued Miss Hs car fairly
but hadnt let her know the extent of the damage. Because of this Miss H hadnt been able to
confirm whether she wished to keep the car or not and so had been without a car for several
months. To put things right our investigator recommended Berkshire cover the hire car costs
along with any late fees or interest charged, let Miss H know the extent of the damage to her
car so she can decide whether to keep it and pay the settlement to her. Our investigator also
recommended Berkshire pay £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor
claim handing and compensate Miss H £10 a day for the loss of use shed had due to not
having her car or the total loss settlement.
Berkshire didnt agree. They said the hire agreement was between P and Miss H and that
they didnt think they were responsible for Miss H using P. They also said theyd only not
paid the settlement as Miss H hadnt provided her bank details so didnt think theyd delayed
the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 November 2022 where I said:
For ease of reading, Ive split Miss Hs complaints into different sections and will deal with
each one separately.
Referral to P
Berkshire have provided a form which shows the information shared with P who provided
Miss Hs hire car. The reason for the referral is because Miss H doesnt think she was at
fault for the accident. However, from looking at her testimony which says shed overtaken
another car and then a bus collided with her, while pulling out of a bus stop, after shed
pulled back into her lane, Im not persuaded Berkshire acted fairly by relying on Miss Hs
testimony and passing her details to P. I say that because Berkshire deal with liability
disputes in motor insurance claims and ought to reasonably have known the third party
would likely dispute liability in this situation.
Ive also noted that Miss H had what would be described as a small car, her policy also
provided a courtesy car, which would be a small car. As Miss Hs policy provided a courtesy
car, Im also not persuaded there was a need for Berkshire to refer Miss H for a hire car. The
courtesy car is also provided under her policy and therefore not something Miss H would
have been at risk of needing to pay for, if liability was disputed. There was a risk Miss H
could be held liable for the hire car charges and Berkshire should have let Miss H know this
along with the fact she was entitled to a courtesy car under her policy, so she could make an
informed choice on whether to use a hire car. Miss H has said if shed known she had a
courtesy car on her policy then she would have used it. And therefore, wouldnt be held
liable for the hire car costs.
Ive therefore looked at how to put the poor referral right. Because of Berkshire referring
Miss H to P she is now being chased for £1,529.37 for credit hire costs. These are costs
Miss H would never have incurred but for Berkshires poor referral. Therefore, the fair and
reasonable outcome is for Berkshire to pay the credit hire costs, plus any late fees and
interest.
Miss H has said shes been chased for the outstanding hire car costs and its been referred
to debt collectors and shes been threatened with legal action. Miss H has also explained
how this has impacted her and the effect its had on her mental health. Shes explained shes
been signed off work due to the impact of this and has provided medical records to support
this. I can see its been an extremely stressful and worrying time for her and. As Im
persuaded, shes only incurred these costs due to Berkshires failings, Im persuaded
Berkshire should pay Miss H £350 to compensate her for this unnecessary additional
distress and inconvenience.
Liability decision
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy, like most policies we see, give Berkshire the
right to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might
make a decision Miss H disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from
the third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Berkshire made a reasonable
decision in doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Berkshire has reviewed CCTV footage of the incident which shows Miss H overtook another
car and then when she was completing her manoeuvre collied with a bus which was pulling
out from a bus stop. Because of this footage Berkshire said it clearly shows Miss H is at fault
for the accident and therefore isnt one they could defend in court. Ive reviewed the CCTVfootage and Im satisfied that Berkshire has acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to
accept liability for the accident.
Total loss settlement
The terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy say that if Berkshire deem her car a total loss, it
will pay her the market value. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your vehicle
with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of
the accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices.
Berkshire has offered £2,881 as the market value for Miss Hs car, minus the policy excess.
The three trade guides used valued Miss Hs car between £2,740 and £3,225. As
Berkshires offer is within the range of the guides, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable
valuation.
Before making a decision to accept Berkshires offer Miss H asked for the details of the
damage to her car so she could decide whether to keep it and have it repaired herself.
Berkshire confirmed the salvage value would be £1,296.45 and that this would be deducted
from her total loss settlement. However, they didnt confirm what the damage was so Miss H
could make a decision on whether to retain the salvage or not. The impact of Berkshire not
letting Miss H know this is that she then couldnt decide on whether to accept the total loss
offer. Because of this Miss H has been without a car since the accident, Berkshire has now
let Miss H know the cost to repair her car. Shes said given how long its been in storage and
the cost to repair the damage from the accident shes now decided she doesnt want to keep
the salvage.
Miss H explained as she hadnt had her car or the settlement to her claim for several months
it meant shed had to cycle places but then couldnt afford to service her bike. Shes also not
been able to get around to do her shopping easily, get to work, attend fitness classes etc.
Miss H said shed got taxis where needed but has tried to keep her costs to a minimum. Im
satisfied that Berkshire has caused Miss H loss of use of her car or a replacement one by
not giving her the information to decide on whether to accept their offer. The fair and
reasonable outcome is for Berkshire to compensate Miss H for this loss of use at a rate of
£10 per day, calculated from the date she returned the hire car until the date to total loss
settlement is paid.
Miss H responded and asked whether 8% interest would be applied to the value of her car. 
She also requested to be reimbursed the full cost of the daily hire charge and said she 
requested to return the hire car as soon as she knew she could be liable for the costs. Miss 
H also questioned whether the number of days between 29 November 2021, the date she 
said she found out she might have to pay the hire car and the date the settlement was paid, 
3 August 2022, was 247 days. 
Berkshire responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. They said they only hadnt 
paid the settlement as Miss H hadnt provided her bank details and said theyd asked for 
them numerous times. They also said Miss H hadnt provided evidence of the hire car costs 
and that they also werent covered by the policy and neither was loss of use. Berkshire 
agreed to the distress and inconvenience award but said it wasnt fair to cover costs which 
could have been avoided had Miss H provided her bank details. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Berkshires comments and theyve not persuaded me to change my decision. I 
say this because while I agree Berkshire asked for Miss Hs bank details, she also 
responded saying she wanted to know the extent of the damage before accepting so she 
could make the decision on whether to accept the offer. And as Berkshire didnt provide this, 
Im satisfied the delay in paying the settlement is due to Berkshire not responding to Miss 
Hs request which would have allowed her to decide on whether to accept the offer. Im 
therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome is for Berkshire to compensate her for 
this delay by paying her £10 per day for her loss of use, as explained above and in my 
provisional decision. 
Regarding evidence of the hire car costs, Miss H has provided that to this service and Im 
therefore satisfied that is the amount shes been pursued for. As Im directing Berkshire to 
pay these costs the evidence of the costs will be sent to Berkshire so it can arrange payment 
with the hire car provider along with any late fees and interest. I understand these costs 
arent covered by the policy, but as explained above and in my provisional decision Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Berkshire to cover them as Miss H wouldnt have been 
chased for these costs if it wasnt for Berkshires failings.
Ive also considered Miss Hs response; I understand the total loss settlement has now been 
paid and therefore she has this money. In my decision Im satisfied the fair and reasonable 
outcome is for Berkshire to cover her loss of use due to not having the money. So while I 
understand there was a delay in Miss H receiving the settlement it wouldnt be fair to tell 
Berkshire to also pay 8% on the total loss amount as well as loss of use in this case. 
In my decision Im also telling Berkshire to cover the hire car costs and so the full daily 
charges and costs will be covered, along with any late fees and interest. Finally for the 
number of days between when the hire car was returned and settlement made, if the dates 
Miss H has said are correct then it does appear to be 247 days as Miss H has said. 
However, as Ive not been provided with anything to show these dates are correct, Im 
unable to say Berkshire needs to pay 247 days loss of use. Therefore, Im not inclined to 
depart from the findings in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. l require Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to:
Pay Miss Hs hire car costs plus any late fees or interest shes incurred due to not 
paying them on time
Pay Miss H the market value of £2,881, minus the policy excess. If not already done 
so
Pay Miss H £10 per day for loss of use, calculated from the date she returned the 
hire car until the date of settlement of her claim
Pay Miss H £350 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman