DRN-1323005
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited (Argos) when he fell into financial difficulties. 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr W and Argos, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
In January 2019 Mr Ws mum passed away and thereafter he fell into some financial 
difficulty. On the 9 April he contacted Argos to explain his situation and with respect to the 
credit card he had with them. The advisor he spoke to on the telephone agreed that his 
account would be put on hold for 30 days, freezing interest, fees and charges but he also 
said that Mr W would need to contact Argos again before that period expired and if he was 
still experiencing difficulty Argos may be able to help him further. The advisor also explained 
that this wouldn't stop statutory default notices, or notices of arrears being sent to Mr W. 
On the same day Argos wrote to Mr W confirming the agreement and then on the 13 May 
they wrote again, warning that the hold on his account would expire in 7 days and that Mr W 
should contact them. On the 22 May a default notice was issued along with a notice of sums 
in arrears, which provided a full breakdown of the arrears and specified the minimum 
payment due. It also warned that further action might be taken. On the 19 June a termination 
notice was issued to Mr W, and he was also advised Argos were in the process of 
terminating his credit card account agreement. Argos then passed the account to a debt 
collection agency on the 23 June which Mr W was unhappy about, and so he complained.
Argos rejected Mr Ws complaint saying that it had acted sympathetically towards him and 
had tried to positively help him, but as he hadnt responded as he had promised, nor 
answered their letters, then they felt they had acted fairly by terminating the agreement and 
passing it to their debt collectors.
Mr W was unhappy with Argoss response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think Argos had acted unfairly. As Mr W didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress where it is appropriate. I will 
consider whether Argos acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case.
When a business knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly. The Lending Code sets out some things they can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes suspending charges on the 
account. But they dont have to do that - what they have to do is deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers once they know they are in financial difficulty, and they can 
do a range of things, depending on the customers circumstances.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Mr W made 
Argos aware of his financial difficulties in April 2019 after they had written to him noting his 
account was in arrears. Argos responded to Mr W positively and sympathetically by 
removing charges and allowing him some breathing space for 30 days and saying they 
would look again at the position . All of that was good practice and very reasonable.
I understand that Mr W feels that Argos could have offered him a payment plan in April but 
that is not something Mr W asked for or which I can see was relevant at that time. It is clear 
that Argos were prepared to consider matters further if Mr W was still in financial difficulty 
and that was one of the reasons they wanted him to call back before the end of the 30 
days,. On a balance of probabilities it is likely Argos would have offered such a plan if Mr W 
had called them to say he was still in difficulties, but he didnt. 
Argos did act positively by then following up and writing to Mr W. I note Mr W says he didnt 
receive the correspondence, and I have no reason to disbelieve him. Equally I have no 
reason to disbelieve Argos when they say they sent the letters. I have seen the copies they 
sent. But, as there had been no further contact from Mr W after the 9 April, I do think it was 
fair for Argos to then issue the default notice and terminate the account. And the reporting of 
the Default was in my view appropriate since it accurately reflected the true position, which is 
something Argos is required to do.
I also know Mr W is unhappy that Argos instructed debt collectors, but again, in the absence 
of any response from Mr W I think that was a fair and proportionate step to take, so I cant 
say Argos have acted unfairly.
Although Mr W will probably be disappointed with my decision I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. So I cant say Argos has acted unfairly and Im not upholding 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against from Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman