DRN-3969867
The complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim she made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D holds legal expenses insurance with UKI. She made a claim as she was seeking to 
take legal action against a former employer, alleging unfair dismissal and discrimination.
After reviewing the claim, UKI declined to fund Mrs Ds legal costs. It said her claim against 
her former employer wasnt likely to successful, and the policy didnt provide cover in those 
circumstances.
Mrs D complained to UKI. It maintained its decision to decline cover for the claim but offered 
£100 compensation to recognise her frustration with the claims process and the length of 
time it took to respond to her complaint.
As Mrs D remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
agreed that UKI had acted fairly when it declined the claim and the £100 compensation 
offered was appropriate. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her correspondence with our service, Mrs D has referred to her employers conduct and 
the reasons for her leaving her job. I should be clear that my decision is solely about UKIs 
actions  I cant comment on the actions of her employer.
UKI referred to a condition of Mrs Ds policy when it declined cover for her claim which says:
We will provide cover as long as we and the appointed representative agree that your 
claim has reasonable prospects of success for the duration of the claim.
The policy also says:
If your claim no longer has reasonable prospects of success
We can refuse to pay further costs if your claim no longer has reasonable prospects of 
success.
The policy contains a definition of reasonable prospects of success. For the purposes of 
Mrs Ds claim, and my decision, the relevant part of this definition says:
We and the appointed representative agree that there is a better than 50% chance that you 
will:
Obtain a successful judgment, and
Recover your losses or damages and obtain any other legal remedy we agree to, 
including an enforcement of judgment or making a successful defence, appeal or 
defence of an appeal.
UKI passed details of Mrs Ds claim to a legal representative. They reviewed the information, 
and provided an assessment of the claim. They concluded that none of the elements of Mrs 
Ds claim against her former employer had a greater than 50% chance of success. On that 
basis, UKI declined to fund Mrs Ds legal expenses any further in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
I know Mrs D disagrees with the assessment that has been completed. Its not my role to say 
whether the conclusions in the advice are correct or not, but to decide whether it was fair for 
UKI to rely on the advice. Our general position is that its reasonable for an insurer to rely on 
a legal representatives assessment of whether a claim enjoys reasonable prospects of 
success provided that the assessment gives reasons and sufficient detail for the 
assessment, and doesnt have obvious factual errors which would be obvious to a layperson. 
I havent been made aware of any apparent factual errors within the assessment provided to 
UKI. Im also satisfied the assessment sets out the various claims made by Mrs D, outlines 
the allegations made by Mrs D, and the reasons why the claims dont have a greater than 
50% chance of success. I conclude UKI could reasonably rely on the assessment and 
decide that Mrs Ds claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. It follows that cover 
for the claim was declined fairly.
Mrs D has sent us emails between her, a conciliation service and her employer in which its 
suggested the employer may make a settlement. She suggests this is evidence her claim 
does have reasonable prospects of success. I cant say this is the case, as theres no 
assessment from a legal professional to this effect. Theres also nothing to suggest that the 
reason for the apparent offer from her former employer is because Mrs D or the former 
employer have an assessment which says her claim is likely to succeed.
The only assessment available to me is the one Ive referred to above. UKI has said if Mrs D 
provides a further legal assessment which indicates that her claim does have reasonable 
prospects of success, it will reconsider its position in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Im satisfied thats a reasonable position. 
UKI has offered £100 to Mrs D as compensation for her frustration with the claim process 
and the length of time it took to give its final response to her complaint. Mrs D says a 
representative of UKIs appointed legal representative shouted at her during a phone call. 
The phone call itself isnt available to be listened to in order to establish exactly what 
happened, but the notes available to me dont reflect that either party was shouting, although 
Mrs Ds frustration with the claim process was evident.
I cant see that there have been any unnecessary or avoidable delays to the claim itself. UKI 
did indicate that it would respond to Mrs Ds complaint within four weeks of acknowledging it 
but were unable to do so as they were still reviewing and making further enquiries at that 
time. I can see UKI did inform Mrs D of this before the end of that four week period, and then 
provided its final response around a week later. 
There is evidence however during this period that Mrs D was upset and frustrated with the 
outcome of the claim and the lack of response to her complaint. She had several phone calls 
and emails with various representatives of UKI. However, Im satisfied she was updated 
about what UKI was doing, and that UKI updated her in accordance with the timescales it 
had outlined.  On balance, while I appreciate the impact UKIs decision to decline cover had on Mrs D, I 
cant ask UKI to pay any additional compensation. Im satisfied it fairly declined the claim, 
and handled the claim appropriately. Its offer of £100 compensation to recognise the 
frustration experienced by Mrs D and the length of time taken to respond to the complaint is 
reasonable. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited has fairly declined 
cover for the claim and made a reasonable compensation offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman