DRN-3443400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc did not fairly compensate them when it 
mis-sold payment protection insurance alongside a loan. 
Although the PPI was not sold to Mr and Mrs F directly by Clydesdale, Clydesdale is 
responsible for answering the complaint. To keep things straightforward, Ill refer to 
Clydesdale for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F made a separate complaint about a different chain of loans. I am issuing a 
separate decision about that borrowing. To be clear, this decision is about the following 
loans: 
Loan 
numberDate 
openedDate 
closed
1 5/2/1988 3/5/88
2 3/5/88 31/5/88
3 31/5/88 3/11/90
Clydesdale was able to trace a PPI policy sold alongside loans 1 and 2. It could not trace a 
PPI policy alongside loan 3. Mr and Mrs F used some of loan 2 to repay loan 1 early. 
Similarly, they used loan 3 to repay loan 2 in full. It looks as though loan 2 was refinanced 
within a month and without any repayments being made. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to Clydesdale about the PPI sale. Clydesdale agreed the PPI 
policies had been mis-sold and it offered to compensate Mr and Mrs F for that mis-sale. But 
Mr and Mrs F say Clydesdale took a very long time to deal with their complaint. They were 
also told by a Clydesdale representative that they would receive considerably more 
compensation than they did. So, they didnt accept Clydesdales offer of compensation. 
Clydesdale agreed that it had not handled the complaint well. It accepted it had taken too 
long to give Mr and Mrs F an answer to their complaint. And it also said they shouldnt have 
been given incorrect information about how much compensation they would get. To 
compensate them for those errors, Clydesdale offered to pay Mr and Mrs F a further £100 in 
addition to the compensation already offered. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept what Clydesdale said and so they complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator considered the matter and thought Clydesdales offer was fair. Mr and Mrs F 
didnt agree with that and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but I havent upheld the complaint. I agree with our 
adjudicator that Clydesdales offer was fair. Ill explain why below. 
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont have to consider what happened at the 
point of sale. Im looking at whether Mr and Mrs F have been fairly compensated for that 
mis-sale. 
When deciding whether an offer of compensation is fair, I would expect Clydesdale to put Mr 
and Mrs F back into the position they would have been in if the PPI had never been sold in 
the first place. 
I can see that for loan 1, Mr and Mrs F borrowed around £600. The total cost of the PPI was 
£36.20. This was a single premium policy, so they had to borrow extra on top of their loan to 
pay for the cover. They also paid interest on the extra they borrowed for the PPI. The loan 
was supposed to last for 12 months, but Mr and Mrs F repaid it roughly three months later. 
That means they didnt have to pay for all of the PPI policy. 
For loan 2, I can see that Mr and Mrs F borrowed around £1,700 and they were sold another 
single premium policy for around £213.91. But, as I said above, this borrowing was 
refinanced very quickly and the full PPI premium was refunded. Mr and Mrs F would not 
have received this rebate directly. Instead, it would have been used to reduce the amount 
needed to repay the borrowing. 
There was no PPI policy sold alongside loan 3. But although Mr and Mrs F received a refund 
for the policy sold with loan 1, the total cost of the PPI wasnt covered. So, there was an 
element of the PPI from loan 1 that Mr and Mrs F were paying for with loan 3. It looks as 
though there was a shortfall of around £10.12 that carried over to loan 3. 
Loan 3 appears to have caused some considerable confusion. Clydesdale initially thought a 
separate policy had been sold alongside this borrowing. And I think thats what led the 
telephone operator to tell Mr and Mrs F they would get more compensation than they were 
actually due. Thats because when Clydesdale looked more closely at this borrowing, it 
transpired no policy was sold alongside this loan. 
In a case like this, Id expect Clydesdale to undertake a number of steps. It would need to 
pay Mr and Mrs F the difference between what their repayments actually were and what 
those repayments would have been without PPI. It would need to add simple interest to each 
of those repayments from when they made their repayments to when they get the money 
back. Clydesdale would also have to work out and pay the difference between what it cost to 
pay the loan off and what it would have cost without the PPI policy. 
Looking at the calculations Clydesdale provided, I can see it undertook all of the steps I have 
set out above in respect of loan 1. A full refund was issued in respect of loan 2, so I cannot 
see any compensation is due for that borrowing. No PPI was sold alongside loan 3. But as 
an element of the PPI payment from loan 1 passed over into loan 3, Clydesdale has 
calculated that amount and offered to refund it to Mr and Mrs F. 
I can see Clydesdale has undertaken the necessary calculations in respect of simple 
interest. It has offered to pay 15% simple interest up to April 1993 and 8% thereafter, which 
is in line with what I would expect. 
I know Mr and Mrs F believe they should have been paid more than Ive set out above, but 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I am satisfied that Clydesdales offer is fair. 
Additional payment of £100
Mr and Mrs F told us they were not happy with the way Clydesdale had handled their 
complaint. Clydesdale accepted it should have dealt with the matter in a more timely manner. It also apologised for giving Mr and Mrs F incorrect information. I can see there was 
also some confusion about the content of the letters Clydesdale sent out. 
Mr and Mrs F do not think the additional £100 in this regard was sufficient to compensate 
them for Clydesdales failures. 
I must make clear that when considering matters such as this, my role is not to punish 
Clydesdale for its mistakes. Where a mistake from a business is established, I have to 
consider the impact of that mistake on Mr and Mrs F. 
I havent been told about any financial loss Mr and Mrs F incurred as a result of Clydesdales 
mistakes. Similarly, I have seen no evidence of any impact on their state of health because 
of the errors. 
Nevertheless, I can see they were annoyed by Clydesdales actions. It seems to me most 
likely that the length of time taken to deal with the complaint and the incorrect information 
they were given created a sense of uncertainty for Mr and Mrs F. I am satisfied that an 
award for that inconvenience is appropriate. 
However, Clydesdale paid £100 to Mr and Mrs F in recognition of those errors. I have noted 
Clydesdales apology to Mr and Mrs F shortly after they raised their complaint about its 
service. I am satisfied the £100 Clydesdale paid to them for those errors is a fair way to 
settle that part of the complaint. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but I agree with our adjudicator that 
Clydesdales offer was fair. I dont require Clydesdale to take any further action in this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman