DRN-4508583
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined a claim made 
under her gadget insurance policy for the theft of her mobile phone and tablet computer.
What happened
Mrs A had a gadget insurance policy for her mobile phone and tablet computer which was 
underwritten by Assurant.
In June 2023, Mrs As bag was stolen which contained her mobile phone and tablet, so she 
made a claim to Assurant.
However, Assurant declined Mrs As claim. They said she hadnt taken care of her devices 
as she had left them in her bag which was unattended when the theft occurred.
Mrs A was unhappy with Assurants decision, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Mrs A had left her bag unattended in a public place, so she didnt think Mrs A had taken care 
of her devices. Therefore, she didnt recommend Assurant do anything further.
Mrs A didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mrs A, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator.
When Mrs As devices were stolen, Mrs A was at a public park with her children, her devices 
were in her shoulder bag and the bag was stolen.
Mrs A says she left her bag on her picnic mat, along with two shopping bags, to go and play 
with or tend to her children several times over a few hours. She said the park was very busy 
that day. Mrs A says her children were around a minute walk/100-yard distance away, and 
she only left her bag for a few minutes each time. She discovered later on in the day that the 
bag containing the devices had been taken at some point earlier.
Assurant declined Mrs As claim as they say she hasnt taken care of her devices. They 
referred to the policy terms which say:
What you are NOT covered for
Loss, theft, damage or breakdown as a result of not taking care of your gadget 
We know how important your gadget is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of your gadget. If you dont take care of your gadget then we may not pay your claim. 
Taking care of your gadget means  
 Not knowingly leaving your gadget somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there? 
 If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with 
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place. 
 Making reasonable enquiries to find your gadget if you think you have lost it. 
 Not intentionally damaging your gadget 
If you knowingly leave your gadget where others can see it but you cannot and your 
gadget is then lost or stolen we may not pay your claim. 
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when we 
assess whether you have taken care of your device. If we believe you have not taken 
care of your gadget, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your 
claim. 
If you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere you cant see it but others can, we 
may decline your claim for not taking care of your gadget  for example: 
..
All of these examples increase the risk of it being lost, stolen or damaged and may 
result in your claim being declined. The examples are to help you understand whats 
covered, and are not the only reasons a claim could be rejected. 
I dont think Assurant has acted unfairly by declining Mrs As claim. Mrs A said the park was 
very busy, however, she left her bag, containing her items, several times over several hours. 
She was around one minute walk away, and her bag and devices were taken without her 
seeing or noticing someone taking it. The devices were put into a bag, but then the bag was 
left. But Mrs A could have taken the bag containing her devices, or her devices only, with her 
when going to play with or tend to her children. And I dont think leaving them in her bag 
unattended in a busy public park was a safe place to leave them. 
So, I think Mrs A has knowingly left her bag and devices at risk, and I dont think Assurant 
has acted unfairly by declining the claim on the basis Mrs A hasnt taken care of them. 
Therefore, I wont be directing them to do anything further in relation to the stolen items.Mrs A also said to our investigator that she was charged policy premiums after the policy 
was supposed to be cancelled. However, our investigator confirmed with Assurant the policy 
was cancelled when agreed, with no further premiums being taken after. And no evidence 
has been provided by Mrs A which demonstrates additional premiums were taken past this 
point. So, in the absence of any evidence supporting further premiums were taken, I wont 
be directing Assurant to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman