DRN-1437610
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its refusal to accept 
their claim under a travel insurance policy.
Background
Mr M took out an annual travel insurance policy with UKI through a packaged back 
account, which insured him and his family. While abroad, Mrs M needed emergency 
dental treatment, which cost more than the limit of the policy (which Mr M understood 
and accepted).
But after the treatment was carried out, Mrs M was still unwell and needed medical 
treatment, including antibiotics. The cost of this treatment was not accepted by UKI 
as it said that the limit of the policy had already been exceeded with the earlier dental 
treatment.
Mr M complained to UKI about its decision, saying that emergency medical treatment 
was different to emergency dental treatment and shouldnt be considered under the 
same cost limit.
UKI said the claim all related to an abscess in Mrs Ms tooth. The policy set out a limit 
of €250 for emergency dental treatment, which was paid out to Mr and Mrs M. UKI 
said that it had taken specialist advice and the medical treatment was deemed as 
dental as it related to the abscess in a tooth. It refused to pay more.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and brought their complaint to us
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr and Mrs M dont agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
The policy is the starting point and it says emergency medical, surgical and hospital 
treatment is covered, but emergency dental treatment is covered up to €250 as long 
as it is to immediately relieve pain only. Theres no dispute that Mrs M was suffering 
pain and needed emergency dental treatment. The argument is whether the 
subsequent medical treatment to deal with the effects of the abscess is subject to the 
cost cap for dental treatment, or viewed separately and not subject to the cap. The 
policy doesnt define dental treatment, so the ordinary meaning of this term applies.
Theres no dispute that the medical treatment was related to Mrs Ms tooth. UKI took 
specialist advice and was advised that Mrs Ms medical treatment should be viewed 
as dental, even though it was administered by a doctor, not a dentist. It told Mr M that 
if he wanted to challenge this, he could submit more evidence. I think its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to take this position as it sought specialist advice (which said all 
the treatment was dental) and the medical treatment was only needed due to the 
abscess in Mrs Ms tooth, based on the information given to UKI. Mr and Mrs M have 
fairly and reasonably been given an opportunity to rebut this view and got further information from the treating doctor, but this evidence doesnt show that the 
treatment had nothing to do with Mrs Ms tooth. The further evidence they obtained 
after UKI made its decision specifically refers to the dental issues and the swelling 
suffered after the tooth extraction.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman