DRN-2571692
The complaint
Ms R has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions in respect of a 
claim made against her motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Ms Rs been helped by her husband. But for ease of reading Ill 
refer to his comments as being Ms Rs.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms R was insured with Admiral. As she didn't feel well enough to take the wheel herself she 
asked her son to drive them a short distance home. During that journey they were involved 
in an incident with another car at a roundabout. Ms R says the cars didn't touch but the other 
driver (the third party) said his car was damaged and claimed against Ms Rs policy for the 
costs to repair the damage and his personal injuries.
Ms Rs son wasn't insured to drive Ms Rs car, so Ms Rs policy didn't cover the incident. 
Admiral asked Ms R if she wanted it to deal with the claim. It said that if she consented for 
Admiral to do so it would deal with the claim but would require Ms R to reimburse it for its 
costs in doing so. Ms R gave that consent.
Sometime later Admiral wrote to Ms R. It said that it had settled the third partys claim and 
asked her to reimburse it around £7,840. Ms R didn't think that was fair and brought her 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought Admiral had dealt with the 
third partys claim reasonably. But he didn't think it had kept Ms R up to date with what was 
happening. So he said it should pay her £300 compensation to address the impact of that. 
He also noted Admiral had misaddressed its response to Ms Rs complaint. Instead of using 
Ms Rs first name it had used her daughters first name. He said Admiral should apologise for 
that error.
Ms R didn't agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Ms Rs made a number of points. But I don't intend to address 
each of those individually. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of her complaint. 
Why was Admiral handling the claim?
Ms Rs son wasn't insured on Ms Rs policy and he didn't have alternative insurance which 
covered him to drive the car. So Admiral wouldn't, initially, have had to settle the third partys 
claim. Instead Admiral could have allowed the third party to claim directly from Ms Rs son. 
However, if that had happened, and the matter had been decided in court with a judgement 
given against Ms Rs son, then at that point, under the provisions of the Road Traffic Act 
1988, Admiral would have been required to cover the costs of the third partys claim. It could 
then have sought to recover any settlement from Ms R and her son. 
But, to try to keep costs down Admiral gave Ms R the option of allowing it to handle the claim 
on her behalf. That prevented Ms R from incurring any costs, for example legal fees, while 
the matter was ongoing. And its worthwhile noting that Admiral has experience of dealing 
with such claims and an understanding of how the courts are likely to approach them. 
Admiral told Ms R that if she consented for it to deal with the claim then it would seek to 
recover its costs from her once the matter was settled. I've seen that Admiral wrote to Ms R 
setting out her options and advising that she may wish to seek independent legal advice. 
Ms R then provided Admiral with consent for it to handle the claim. I think that was 
reasonable.
Did Admirals settle the claim fairly?
Ms R doesn't think that her son caused an accident. She said she doesn't believe there was 
any contact between the two cars. In contrast the third party said that Ms Rs son pulled out 
in front of him at a roundabout causing damage to the left hand front of his car.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, or if in 
fact such an accident has taken place, as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. But given 
that Ms R gave Admiral consent to handle the matter on her behalf, which included making 
decision that Ms R might not agree with, Ive looked to see if its done so reasonably.  
Ms R thinks that there was no contact between the cars. But I've seen an independent 
engineers report and images of the third partys car which shows clear damage to it. And an 
engineer also inspected Ms Rs car and found damage to it consistent with the accident as 
described by the third party. Admiral shared that engineers report with Ms R. And given 
there is physical evidence on both cars consistent with the accident as described by the third 
party, I think Admirals conclusion that the cars came together is fair.  
Further I note that Ms Rs son offered at the scene to pay for any damage to the third partys 
car. Ms Rs said that he did so only to placate the occupants of the third partys car who 
were aggressive. But when Admiral was investigating the issue Ms Rs son told them that he 
was unsure if there was contact between the cars or not. So, given he didn't categorically 
say that no accident had taken place, I can see why Admiral might interpret his offer to pay 
for the third partys damage at the scene as an admission that the contact took place which 
was his fault. And, in those circumstances, I can see why Admiral would be concerned that it 
the matter went to court, given the engineering evidence that Ms Rs car showed damage 
consistent with the accident, the court would find in the third partys favour. It follows I think it 
was reasonable for Admiral to try to keep costs down by preventing the matter from going to 
court and settling the claim on the best terms it could.
Ms Rs said that Admiral promised her it wouldnt accept liability. But I'm not persuaded 
thats the case. Ive seen evidence that Admiral told Ms R that it would require the third party 
to show that Ms Rs son was liable and that it wouldn't pay an exaggerated or inflated claim. 
But, I haven't seen anything to say that it would continue to defend the case in court if it 
didn't feel it had reasonable prospects of doing so. So I don't think Admiral was in any way 
deceitful, as Ms R has alleged, in asking her if she wished to consent for it to handle the 
matter on her and her sons behalf. And, as I've said above, I think there was convincing 
evidence that the two cars came together as the third party described. That is Ms Rs son pulled out in front of the other driver causing an accident. And in those circumstances, I think 
it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that if the claim went to court it was likely that the 
court would find Ms Rs son was to blame for causing the accident. 
Im aware that Ms R doesn't think that the third party could have been injured in the incident. 
So Admiral shouldn't have paid his personal injury claim. But I understand that the third party 
submitted medical evidence to support that claim. And in those circumstances it would have 
been very difficult for Admiral to successfully defend it. Ms Rs added that if the matter had 
gone to court then:
We know when questioned, the involved persons, doctors, therapists would not be 
able to withstand the cross examination
But I don't know how shes arrived at that conclusion; she hasn't supported her statement 
with any evidence. And as I've said above, Admiral has experience of dealing with such 
cases. It will know that courts regularly award compensation to victims of accidents that have 
happened at low speed and where the claimants did not immediately report injuries at the 
scene but complained of those later. And, if the matter had gone to court there was always 
the chance that the claim could have cost Ms R or Admiral significantly more than it settled 
the claim for. So, in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for Admiral to settle the 
claim as it did.
I'm aware that Ms R would like to see the details of exactly what Admiral has paid. I've seen 
that Admiral sent Ms R a breakdown of the costs, for things like accident damage, personal 
injury, solicitors fees etc. And I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. For data 
protection reasons I don't think Admiral would be allowed to send Ms R the third partys 
medical report or other claims information. But, if Ms R doesn't agree, this is something she 
may wish to take up with the Information Commissioners Office, which is the appropriate 
body to investigate matters concerning data protection issues. 
Did Admiral keep Ms R informed of progress?
Ms R was unhappy that Admiral didn't let her know what was happening with the claim. 
Admiral told us that this wasn't a complaint she raised with it. But while this wasn't a specific 
matter Admiral addressed in its final complaints response, I've noted that Ms R had raised 
the issue with it previously. And it was certainly in the complaint that she put to us and which 
we shared with Admiral when we asked for its reply to the complaint. So I don't think it would 
be fair to delay matters further by giving Admiral additional time to address this complaint 
now.
I've noted Admiral told Ms R that if she consented for it to handle the claim then it would 
liaise with her. And I've seen that it wrote to her around five months later to say that, having 
received the engineering evidence it felt that if the matter went to court it would lose. So it 
had decided to settle the claim on the best possible terms. But it seems Admiral did very little 
to keep Ms R up to date with developments after that. And it was around another 13 months 
before it wrote to Ms R again to say that she needed to pay it around £7,840. I can 
understand that came as something of a shock to Ms R. And that shock was something that 
could have been reduced had Admiral updated her on how it was intending to settle the 
claim as it progressed. It follows that I don't think Admiral handled this matter fairly. So to 
address Ms Rs distress and inconvenience because it didn't keep her updated I think 
Admiral should pay her £300 compensation. I think that is a fair and reasonable sum in the 
circumstances as its in line with awards we make in other cases of equal seriousness. 
Admiral misaddressed its complaint responseWhen Admiral took details of Ms Rs complaint it asked her where she wanted to send the 
complaint response to. She gave her husbands email address. Admiral sent its response to 
that email account but incorrectly addressed the letter to Ms Rs daughter. I note Ms R 
raised this issue with Admiral shortly after it sent her its complaint response. And while I can 
see that Admiral using the incorrect name would have been a cause of concern for her I 
don't think this is an issue that requires compensation. Thats because the response went 
directly to the email address Ms R had intended it to. So the incorrect name used in the reply 
would have only been apparent to someone who Ms R allowed to read that letter. And in 
those circumstances, to put things right, I think Admiral should write to Ms R to explain how 
the mistake occurred and to apologise for it. 
For completeness, Ms Rs recently raised some additional points including that she would 
like to pursue a claim against the third party using the motor legal protection section of her 
policy. But, as far as Im aware, she hasn't asked Admiral directly to pursue such a claim 
previously. So, as this is something she will need to put to Admiral herself in the first 
instance, I don't intend to comment further on it here.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
pay Ms R £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience;
apologise for misaddressing its complaint response. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman