DRN-1840840
 
The complaint
 Mr B complains about what happened when he asked Santander UK Plc to make a 
chargeback request for him. 
What happened
Mr B paid a garage to make repairs to a car. He was very unhappy with the work done, so 
he asked Santander to make a chargeback request for him. He was angry that the request 
was turned down, and he said Santanders staff were rude to him.
Santander credited Mr Bs account while it was investigating the chargeback request. Then it 
asked him for further information to pursue the request, responding to the questions that the 
garage raised. Mr B sent a detailed reply.
Santander then wrote to Mr B on 14 June 2019 to say that, as his dispute was with the 
merchant, it couldnt pursue his claim. A subsequent letter of 3 July says unfortunately your 
case has not been successful. As Mr Bs chargeback claim wasnt successful, Santander 
took back the temporary credit it had made to his account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld by our service. He said 
Santander had attempted the chargeback and it hadnt been upheld. He thought that 
decision not to uphold the chargeback had been taken by the card scheme operator. And he 
said Santander hadnt been able to find any calls on a particular date that Mr B was 
complaining about, but it would look further at Mr Bs complaint about the service it had 
given if he could provide more information. 
Our investigator thought that Santander had acted fairly. Mr B didnt agree. He said the 
garage had given him wrong information, then charged him for work that wasnt needed. 
That was fraud. Mr B thought Santander hadnt protected him from that, as it should, and 
that it was in breach of UK banking laws. 
Our investigator still thought B had done enough, but Mr B didnt agree, and said he wanted 
an ombudsman to review his case. So it was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I wasnt sure which stage of the chargeback process 
Santander had reached. So I wrote to ask it for more information. 
I know that Mr B is very angry about what the garage did. But what I have to look at 
here is what Santander did, and whether that was unfair or unreasonable. It may help if I set out briefly here how a chargeback works. Its a system managed by 
the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on Mr Bs card. Its a more limited form of 
redress than a court case, and only some complaints will fall within the rules. The card 
scheme operator sets the rules, not Santander, and ultimately the card scheme 
operator can decide who wins or loses an arbitration. 
The first stage of a chargeback is asking the merchant if they want to defend the 
claim. Here, the garage clearly did. It sent a detailed rebuttal of Mr Bs claim. 
Santander asked Mr B for further information, and he in turn supplied detailed 
comments on what the garage had said. 
Santander then had to decide whether to ask the card scheme operator to arbitrate, or 
not. I wouldnt always expect a bank to do this. Theres a cost to banks, to make 
chargeback arbitration requests. And that cost isnt passed on to customers. So I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Santander to incur that cost if it was very unlikely that this 
chargeback request would succeed. 
When Santander wrote back in response to my further enquiries, it said that it hadnt 
asked the card scheme operator to make a decision. It said that Essentially Mr B is 
claiming that his vehicle was damaged whilst in possession of the merchant  there is 
no factual proof of this claim.  This is the reason why Santander didnt take the case 
to arbitration, as it believed there wasnt sufficient evidence for a successful claim. I 
need to assess whether this was a reasonable response for Santander to make. 
In looking at this, Im aware Mr B has been adamant throughout that the vehicle he put 
in for servicing was damaged by the garage, and the garage also did an unnecessary 
service on the car. But I also need to bear in mind that Mr B doesnt seem to have sent 
Santander any independent third party evidence that could support and verify what he 
has said. 
I also have to consider that Mr Bs statements dont seem to have been entirely 
consistent. For example, his initial statement suggests he wasnt present when the car 
was collected, but in later statements he says he was. 
None of this means that Mr Bs claim isnt genuine, or that the dealership didnt 
damage his car. But I have to think about what its reasonable for Santander to do in 
this case. And the lack of independent third party corroboration for what Mr B has said, 
along with some confusion over some of the facts hes presented, does mean that, in 
my opinion, his case was unlikely to succeed at the next stage of arbitration. And 
because I dont think this chargeback claim was likely to succeed, that also means that 
I dont think Santander had to ask the card scheme operator to arbitrate in this case. 
I do think that the position, and the decision Santander took, should have been 
explained more clearly to Mr B. That wouldve given him a final opportunity to produce 
further evidence, if he wished. Because he wasnt given that explanation and 
opportunity, I think Santander should pay Mr B £100 in compensation. 
I dont think Santander has to reopen Mr Bs case, or attempt this chargeback again 
now. It remains open to Mr B to consider other means of redress against the garage, 
including through the courts. Unfortunately, our service isnt able to assist with that.
Mr B also said that he was angry at how hed been spoken to by Santander, and 
emails it had sent him. Ive not been able to listen to his calls with Santander after this 
length of time. But I have been able to read emails it sent him. Although Ive explained 
that I think Santander could, and should, have explained the position more clearly to Mr B, I dont think its correspondence with him was intended to cause any offence. So 
I dont think that Santander needs to do more because of this.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied, and accepted my decision.                                                                      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr B £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman