DRN-3050950
The complaint
Mr L complains that Swinton Group Ltd trading as Swinton Insurance didnt renew a 
motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, but Ill summarise them 
briefly:
Mr L insured his motorcycle through Swinton. He paid for the insurance in monthly 
instalments paid by Direct Debit.
The policy was due for renewal but after the renewal date, Swinton wrote to Mr L to 
say that it hadnt renewed the policy. It said it did this because no Direct Debit 
mandate was in place for the renewal.
Mr L took out a new policy with Swinton, at a higher cost. He also complained to 
Swinton.
Swinton rejected his complaint. It said it had been told by the finance company, C, 
who arranged the credit agreement that the Direct Debit instruction had been 
cancelled.
After Swinton rejected his complaint, Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think Swinton had acted reasonably. Swinton didnt accept this 
and said that any error made was Cs responsibility and the complaint should be 
directed to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Swintons comments about who this complaint should be directed to, but having 
considered the evidence available to me, Im not satisfied its acted reasonably here.
When Mr L took out the policy originally, Swinton sent his details to C to arrange for a credit 
agreement to be set up to allow him to pay monthly for the policy. Swinton says that, prior to 
the renewal taking place, it received notification from C that the Direct Debit mandate had 
been cancelled. For its part, C says it was only entitled to take Direct Debits up to the end of 
the original policy, and a new instruction would be required for a renewal. Swinton hasnt 
provided details of the message it received from C about the Direct Debit being cancelled.
Ive reviewed the documents sent to Mr L when he took out the policy. Within this, theres a 
section which addresses what will happen when the policy is due to renew. It states, in part, 
that if the policy is paid for by way of a Direct Debit set up with C Swinton may (but accepts 
no responsibility to) arrange to renew your policy automatically if, prior to your renewal date 
you have not confirmed whether you wish to proceed with the renewal. [In] instances such 
as the Direct Debit instruction not longer being active we may be unable to automatically 
renew your policy. If you do not wish us to take this action, please tell us at any time up to 7 
days before your renewal date. If we do not hear from you to the contrary, we will treat it that 
you agree to this. If you are paying for your policy by Direct Debit via a credit agreement with 
[C] and you are happy with your quote to renew, there will be nothing further for you to 
arrange. Your Direct Debit payments will continue automatically.
The renewal documents which were sent to Mr L state If youre happy with your quote and 
there is a live Direct Debit instruction in place, well take care of everything for you and well 
renew your policy automatically. If youd prefer we didnt automatically renew your policy 
please call us ahead of your renewal date. If you cancel your current Direct Debit instruction 
before your renewal and we dont hear from you before your current policy ends you will be 
left without cover.
The combined effect of these documents is, Im satisfied, that when the policy came to 
renew, Mr L wasnt required to take any action and could reasonably assume that the cover 
would continue. Theres no suggestion in these documents that cancelling a Direct Debit 
instruction is the only action required if a policyholder doesnt wish to renew a policy.
Swinton refers to the apparent cancellation of the Direct Debit but hasnt provided any detail 
about this message, including what was contained within the message. I havent seen 
evidence that Swinton were told Mr L didnt want to renew the policy or had contacted C to 
cancel the Direct Debit so that the policy didnt renew.
In any case, having received the notification from C, its clear that Swinton didnt take any 
action to contact Mr L to confirm whether he wanted to renew the policy. But the documents 
it had sent to him indicated that if he didnt want to renew the policy, he should contact 
Swinton to discuss this. On receipt of the message from C, it seems to me that Swinton had 
three options:
1) To contact C and ask for more detail about the apparent cancellation of the Direct 
Debit mandate.
2) To contact Mr L to ask whether he wanted to renew the policy.
3) To continue with the renewal and ask C to enter into a new credit agreement with Mr 
L.
Instead, on the basis of one message from C (not Mr L), it assumed Mr L didnt want to 
renew the policy. I dont think this was reasonable.
Putting things right
Mr Ls told us that the new policy he took out with Swinton after the renewal didnt go 
through was around £50 more expensive than the original renewal quote. Swinton will have 
these records to confirm the exact amounts. It should refund him the difference in the 
premiums.
I can also appreciate that being informed that the policy hadnt been renewed, and therefore 
that he was uninsured, would have been distressing for Mr L. He also had to contact Swinton 
and arrange a new policy when he wouldnt otherwise have needed to, so hes been 
inconvenienced. To recognise this, Swinton should pay £75 compensation.  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Swinton Group Ltd 
trading as Swinton Insurance must:
Refund the difference between Mr Ls renewal premium and the premium paid for the 
new policy.Pay Mr L £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman