DRN-3567780
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have refused to action some of his written 
instructions to make payments from his bank account.
What happened
Mr T is currently in prison and carries out his banking activities in writing. On 30 November 
2020, he asked HSBC to make a payment of £500 and on 2 December 2020, he instructed 
them to make a payment of £600.
HSBC wrote to Mr T to confirm that they had processed his payment request of £600. They 
sent him another letter to explain they werent able to action his request of £500 due to 
concerns over the authenticity of the request. 
They also told Mr T that their procedures had changed requiring them to validate all written 
instructions by calling the customer. They suggested Mr T asks the prison governors office 
to validate his payment requests.
Mr T was unhappy his written instruction wasnt followed and raised a complaint. HSBC 
responded reiterating their new procedure. Following this, on 24 December 2020, Mr T 
asked HSBC to set up a standing order to an account he holds with another bank. HSBC 
actioned this request successfully. 
On 28 December 2020, Mr T asked HSBC to make two payments - one for £500 and the 
other for £1,000. HSBC wrote to Mr T to tell him they couldnt make these payments. They 
explained their new procedure again and said they were happy to accept written instructions 
validated by the prison governors office.
 
Mr T complained again as he felt HSBC were picking and choosing which payment 
instructions to process. HSBC said they hadnt made an error and they had previously 
advised Mr T on what was required to make payments from the account. 
Our investigator said that HSBC had followed their procedures correctly, and that our service 
cant direct a business to change their process. Mr T disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account allow HSBC to refuse to make payments in 
certain circumstances. The term relevant here is if making a payment would cause HSBC to 
break the law, or would go against a regulation, code, court order, duty or requirement.
HSBC are required to take reasonable steps to protect their customers. They might be held 
liable for any foreseeable losses if they breach their duty of care. This means they need to 
have robust security procedures in place to prevent unauthorised use of their customers 
accounts.
As part of this, HSBC have decided to enhance their procedure to validate all written 
payment requests through a telephone call. I appreciate Mr T feels that HSBC shouldnt 
have a blanket ban on all written payment instructions. However, they are entitled to make 
commercial decisions on how they carry out their day-to-day business.
As an informal service, we cant tell banks like HSBC, how to operate their business more 
broadly or interfere with their policy decisions. This includes HSBCs decision to change their 
procedures which require written payment instructions to be verified by calling their 
customer.
So, Ive considered the specific circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. He was made aware of 
HSBCs new procedure on 7 December 2020 and this applied to all their customers making 
written payment requests. So, I cant say HSBC have treated Mr T unfairly.
HSBC gave Mr T an alternative option of validating written payment instructions through the 
prison governors office. I think this was a reasonable suggestion since HSBC arent able to 
speak with Mr T directly. It enables Mr T to make payments while hes in prison and gives 
HSBC the reassurance that any payment requests are genuine.
Mr T has told our service that the prison governor isnt able to validate payments, as its a 
breach of data protection for them to be involved and it isnt their role or function to do so.
As Ive explained above, it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to suggest validating his payment 
request through the prison governors office as an alternative to speaking to him on the 
telephone. But if this isnt a viable option for Mr T, hell need to speak to HSBC directly to 
discuss other available means to make payments from his account.
I understand Mr Ts frustration as there seems to be inconsistencies with some payments 
from his account being allowed, despite HSBCs procedure to validate all written payments 
with a telephone call. 
Ive looked at whether HSBC have acted unfairly in refusing to action some of Mr Ts written 
instructions. But Ive only considered the payment requests from 30 November 2020 to 28 
December 2020, as these are the transactions Mr T has complained to HSBC about in his 
letter of 5 January 2021.
Mr T has said that HSBC have allowed further payments to be made from his account since 
he raised the complaint, without verification, either by telephone call or authority from the 
prison governor. 
But I wont be reviewing all the payment requests Mr T has made to date in reaching my 
decision. Any transactions that Mr T hasnt complained about in his letter of 5 January 2021, 
doesnt form part of this decision. 
If Mr T is unhappy with how HSBC have handled his request to make payments from his 
account after 28 December 2020, hell need to raise his concerns with them about this 
separately.
The payment instruction from Mr T for £500 on 30 November 2020, wasnt actioned because 
HSBC had concerns over the authenticity of this request. They had legitimate reasons to be 
cautious because the payment details were written in a different ink and handwriting to the rest of the letter. Given the payment request was for a large amount and HSBCs duty to 
protect Mr T, I dont think they acted unreasonably in refusing to make this payment. 
HSBC made the payment of £600 which Mr T requested on 2 December 2020. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to make this payment, as they didnt have any concerns about 
it. The risk appears to be minimal as the payment was to Mr Ts solicitor with his name as 
the payment reference. 
Mr Ts request to set up a standing order of £500 on 24 December 2020 was also actioned. 
But HSBC explained this was because it was to an existing beneficiary he had paid before, 
and an account held in his own name. It appears HSBC were rightly trying to be helpful in 
actioning this request, despite their procedure which given Mr Ts circumstances was fair 
and reasonable.
HSBC refused to make the two payments Mr T requested on 28 December 2020 of £1,000 
and £500. I dont think they acted unreasonably in refusing to make these payments. I say 
this because theyd already made Mr T aware on 7 December 2020 of the change in their 
procedure requiring them to verify written payment instructions with a telephone call. Theyd 
also given Mr T the option of validating the payment request through the prison governors 
office  which, as I concluded above, was reasonable.
There also doesnt appear to be any mitigating risk factors for these two payment requests. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC didnt use their discretion to make these 
payments outside of their new procedure. I say this because the payments were for large 
amounts and one of the payees was the same as in the request of 30 November 2020 which 
was flagged for concerns around authenticity. 
I appreciate HSBCs new procedure makes it more challenging for Mr T to make payments. 
And it can also be frustrating when some payments are actioned while others arent. But 
ultimately, HSBC have added extra measures to their security procedure to safeguard their 
customers accounts, which as Ive explained they are duty bound to do.
All things considered, HSBC have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and I cant fairly conclude that Mr T has been treated unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman