DRN-4479092
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Prepaid Financial Services Limited (PFSL) had terms and conditions 
that werent clear, and which led her to load money onto a prepaid payment card that she 
then wasnt able to access in the manner that she wanted.
What happened
Mrs G loaded over £10,000 onto a prepaid payment card (the card) which was 
administered by PFSL. Mrs G had intended to use the card to pay large amounts in a short 
period. But when she attempted to do so, she discovered that the card had spending limits 
which meant that she couldnt use the card in the manner that shed intended. Mrs G wasnt 
happy about this and felt that the terms and conditions of the card werent clear. So, she 
raised a complaint.
PFSL responded to Mrs G but felt that theyd acted in accordance with the terms of the card 
and so hadnt done anything wrong. PFSL returned the balance on the card to Mrs G but 
acknowledged that they could have returned the money to her more quickly that they did. 
PFSL apologised for this and offered to pay £350 and 50,000 points to Mrs G as 
compensation for any upset and inconvenience she might have incurred. Mrs G wasnt 
satisfied with PFSLs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel PFSL had acted 
unfairly by administering the card in line with the terms and conditions. And they felt the offer 
of compensation that PFSL had made for the service issues Mrs G had experienced already 
represented a fair resolution to that aspect of Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
It isnt in dispute that the PFSL administered card that Mrs G complains about here has 
terms and conditions which include monthly spending limits. Mrs G feels that these terms 
and conditions were unclear, and that she loaded money onto the card in the reasonable 
belief that she would be able to use the card as she intended. PFSL disagree and say that 
the terms and conditions of the card were clear, and that therefore the root cause of Mrs Gs 
dissatisfaction was her own failure to understand the clearly stated limits of the card.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the card to assess whether I feel the spending 
limits are clearly described in those terms. And, having done so, I can only conclude that the 
spending limits of the card are clearly described in those terms. 
Ive reached this decision because there is a section of the terms  section 4  which is titled 
Service Limits, Transfers & Payment. And the very first clause of that section, includes the 
following statement:
Limits relating to the use of Cards can be found in the attached Fees and Limits 
Schedule.
Im therefore satisfied that the first clause in the Service Limits, Transfers & Payment section 
clearly explains that there are limits on the use of the card and clearly signposts the reader 
to the Fees and Limits Schedule. And having reviewed that Fees and Limits Schedule, Im 
further satisfied that the monthly spending limits of the card are clearly described therein.
Because of this, I dont agree with Mrs G that the spending limits of the card werent clearly 
explained in the terms and conditions. Rather, I feel that the spending limits were clearly 
explained, and that it was Mrs Gs responsibility to have understood and accounted for these 
spending limits before deciding to attempt to use the card in a manner which wasnt 
permitted by the card terms. And it therefore follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of 
Mrs Gs complaint.
In their response to Mrs Gs complaint, PFSL acknowledged that they could have returned 
the balance of the card to Mrs G sooner than they did. And PFSL apologised to Mrs G for 
this and offered compensation to her of £350 and 50,000 card points.
PFSLs offer here seems fair to me. And given that I feel that Mrs G should ultimately bear 
the responsibility for what happened here, as Ive explained above, I can confirm that the 
£350 offered by PFSL is, in and of itself, more generous than any amount I may have 
instructed PFSL to pay, had they not offered to do so already. Consequently, if Mrs G 
doesnt intend to use the card (or a similar card) even again, so that the points offer is of no 
use to her, I dont feel that PFSL should reasonably be instructed to increase the monetary 
portion of their compensation offer.
Finally, Mrs G has asked why she was allowed to load so much money onto the card if she 
wasnt then allowed to spend it as quickly as she wanted. But again, I can only reiterate that 
I feel it was for Mrs G to have understood the terms of the card before she loaded her money 
onto it. I also dont feel that it should be assumed by PFSL that a person loading money onto 
one of their cards hasnt understood the terms of that card. And it must be recognised that 
Mrs G could have used the money she loaded onto the card, so long as she abided by the 
limitations of that card as described in the terms and conditions.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Gs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the limited basis to instruct PFSL to make the payment of £350 and 50,000 
points to Mrs G that theyve already offered to make  should Mrs G formally accept this FD. 
And I wont be instructing PFSL to take any further or alternative action beyond that. I realise 
this wont be the outcome Mrs G was wanting. But I hope that shell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
As per their prior offer to Mrs G:
PFSL must make a payment of £350 to Mrs G.PFSL must also credit Mrs G with 50,000 points.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman