DRN-3029882
The complaint
Ms B complains that she had reached an agreement with Santander UK Plc that it would not 
charge interest on her credit card debt, but she said then it started charging.
What happened
Ms B said that Santander stopped all further spending on her credit card account some time 
ago. Shed had a promotional rate of zero interest on the card, and she said that after a lot of 
hassle contacting Santander, it eventually told her that she should just keep paying what 
shed been paying each month while the zero interest rate was on her card. 
Ms B said Santander wasnt going to charge her any interest, and it told her to just ignore 
any letters or messages it sent, saying she should pay more. It would just keep accepting 
about £115 to £120 per month until the debt was cleared. 
Ms B said she was very disappointed to find that in December 2020 Santander had started 
asking for much more money. She wanted it to honour the agreement it had reached in 2018 
or 2019. But she said Santander just told her it couldnt find any evidence of this agreement. 
Santander told us that Ms Bs account was opened in May 2017, but it was closed for further 
spending on 8 April 2019. Since then, the payments Ms B made have been reducing her 
outstanding balance. But on 5 October 2020 Ms Bs interest free agreement ended, and from 
that time on she would need to make a much larger minimum payment. Her previous 
payment wasnt enough to cover the monthly interest now being charged on the card. 
Santander said it could see no evidence that Ms B had been told she would never need to 
pay interest on this card. It said that she could apply for a payment holiday if she wanted to, 
or talk to its financial support team if she was having problems making her payments. But it 
wouldnt just waive the interest on her card. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she hadnt been able 
to see that Santander had reached any agreement not to charge Ms B interest, and she said 
if this agreement had been reached, she wouldve expected to find a record of it. In these 
circumstances, she didnt think Santander had made a mistake by increasing Ms Bs monthly 
payment when her zero interest rate ended. 
Our investigator said Santander had alerted Ms B to this change in interest rates before it 
happened, and the position was also set out in Ms Bs statements. It didnt look as if shed 
been reading the online statements, but our investigator said that it had been Ms Bs choice 
to get her statements online rather than in paper. And our investigator said Santander hadnt 
been ignoring Ms Bs letters to it. Santander had written back to her a number of times. 
Our investigator said that if Ms B was struggling, then the best thing would be for her to talk 
to Santander about support it could offer. She said it would be easiest if Ms B did that over 
the phone, as Santander would want to discuss her current financial situation before coming 
to any revised agreement.
Ms B disagreed. She repeated that shed reached a different agreement with Santander, and 
she wanted it to stick to this. Our investigator asked Santander to look into calls that Ms B 
had with it, when her card was closed for further spend. Santander did so, and sent us notes 
from all the calls around the time. It said it still couldnt see any evidence that Ms B had been 
told she wouldnt be charged interest. Our investigator reviewed these call details, then told 
Ms B she hadnt changed her mind. 
Ms B wanted a little more time to see if she could find confirmation of the agreement shed 
reached with Santander. Our investigator extended the time for Ms B to do this, but Ms B 
hasnt sent anything further. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, I think that if Santander had reached an agreement with Ms B that she 
didnt ever have to pay interest on this card, then this would have been recorded by 
Santander. And, like our investigator, I havent been able to see any evidence of this. 
I should also say that an agreement like this would, in my experience, be very unusual. 
Especially as notes taken in around 2019 appear to confirm that Ms B didnt tell Santander 
about any financial difficulties at that time. 
For those reasons, I think its more likely that Santander didnt promise Ms B that she would 
never have to pay interest on her card.
Ms B has also complained that her payments have now gone up, and Santander has kept 
insisting she needs to make the higher payments. She says it hasnt responded to her 
letters. But I think that what Santander has done is what I would have expected it to do, if it 
hadnt reached an agreement with Ms B to waive interest. 
Santander warned Ms B that her payments were going to go up, before the interest free 
period ended. Then it started asking for larger payments. Ms B has kept paying the same as 
before, and Santander has treated her account as in arrears, because what shes paying 
isnt enough to cover the interest which is now being charged on her account. 
Ms B has written to Santander a number of times, and she says its ignoring her letters. But 
Santander has shown us a number of letters it has written to Ms B. It hasnt upheld her 
complaint, but it has offered a payment holiday or a payment arrangement if Ms B is having 
difficulties paying the larger amount. 
Ms B has told us that shed budgeted for the smaller payments, not for the amount shes 
now been asked to pay. Like our investigator, I think that if Ms B is having problems making 
these larger payments, she may find it helpful to discuss her current financial situation with 
Santander, over the phone, to see if it can reach a payment arrangement with her now. Id 
encourage her to explore this option, if she thinks it might be helpful in her circumstances.I know that Ms B will be disappointed, but I dont think Santander has to do any more. And 
because Im not asking Santander to do more than it has already offered to do in this case, 
that means that Ms Bs complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman