DRN-3941319
The complaint
Mr H complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Moneys (Virgin Money) 
refusal to meet his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In June 2021 Mr H used his Virgin Money credit card to pay in part for a second-hand car. 
Mr Hs position is that the car does not meet the quality standard it should have reached. 
Specifically he suggests the car is not of satisfactory quality and this is a breach of contract. 
In particular Mr H indicates that the car has the following problems that make it not of 
satisfactory quality:
Intermittent juddering at the front-end,
Intermittent loss of power,
Faulty paintwork,
Body panel and rear door alignment issues.
Mr H indicates that at first he tried to get the supplier of the car to put things right, but he got 
nowhere. Therefore Mr H turned to Virgin Money instead. 
Mr H considers that he has rights against Virgin Money under Section 75. His position is that 
he benefits from these rights because he used credit provided by Virgin Money, specifically 
his Virgin Money credit card to partially pay for the car. Mr H did not receive a response 
within 8 weeks of complaining to Virgin Money, so he complained to our service.
At the same time that Mr H paid for the car he also bought a warranty from the supplier. He 
paid for this by direct debit. Mr H also wants compensation for this too.
Once Mr Hs complaint was with us, Virgin Money told us it did not uphold the part of Mr Hs 
complaint which relates to his claim under Section 75. It suggested the issue was complex 
and let us know it had contacted the supplier for further details. However Virgin Money does 
agree that it did not always give Mr H the level of customer service he is entitled to expect in 
relation to complaint handling. On that basis it offered Mr H £75. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. She recommended that Mr Hs 
complaint be upheld it part.
Neither party accepted the recommendation. Mr H asked for further compensation to reflect 
that on several occasions Virgin Money had taken too long to respond and had caused 
avoidable delays. Virgin Money asked for further information and then did not respond any 
further.
We could go no further at this stage, therefore I was asked to take a fresh look at Mr Hs 
complaint. Having considered the available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the 
complaint, but I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make 
further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision last month and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. 
This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H paid in part for the car using his Virgin Money credit card. Therefore, Mr H may have 
the protection given by Section 75. I think its important to set out my role here. In 
considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome 
of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to 
resolve Mr Hs complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. 
Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im 
obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H pursued a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the 
courts and operates differently from them.
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against Virgin Money provided 
certain conditions are met. One of those conditions is that there must be a valid debtor- 
creditor-supplier relationship in place, under which Mr H is the debtor, Virgin Money the 
creditor and the car dealership is the supplier. 
On the face of it no such relationship exists because the invoice for the car is n Mr Hs wifes 
name alone. We asked Mr H how this came about. He explained he and his wife bought the 
car together it is the family car, they only own one car and it he is the registered owner and 
the policy holder for the motor insurance policy in relation to the car. He also explains that he 
was present when the car was bought and he was the one who chose it, as well as paying 
the deposit on his credit card. 
In the circumstances, despite his name not appearing on the invoice, I am satisfied Mr H 
was a contracting party in relation to the purchase of the car, which was funded, in part, by 
funds from his credit card. In all the circumstances, therefore, I am satisfied that there is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in this instance.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. Further, the relevant law says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.In this case the car supplied was used (it was around three years old) and had a value of 
around £17,000. In order to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded the car was 
not of satisfactory quality and so a breach of the contract has taken place.
Further, Mr H and Virgin Money disagree about whether the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
The car Mr H purchased was a used car as I have already mentioned therefore I would not 
expect its finish to be flawless. Therefore the existence of less than perfect paintwork and 
the alignment of the door and panel does not necessarily mean, in this instance that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality.
Moreover, if there is an existing fault with goods before they are purchased Mr H is not able 
to claim that the goods are not of satisfactory quality because of that fault, if he examined 
the goods before the purchase and that fault should have been found by that examination, 
which I think is the case here.
Further whilst an expert has commented on the existence of the paintwork and alignment 
issues that expert has not said the existence of these faults makes the car not of satisfactory 
quality.
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded that the car is not of satisfactory quality due to 
these issues.
Mr H suggests that the paintwork and alignment issues are due to a previous accident. If this 
were so and this accident and repair had not been disclosed this would be a 
misrepresentation. But Ive seen nothing that persuades me that an accident caused these 
issues.
The existence of both the juddering and the loss of power is in dispute. Mr H tells us these 
issue are intermittent. The difficulty with intermittent faults, is by their very nature they dont 
occur all the time so it can be hard to demonstrate they exist. I have thought about this, but I 
also note that it appears that the supplier examined the car more than once and did not find 
these faults. I am not able to rely on the opinion of the garage Ill call T that says it came 
across the intermittent faults. The reason for this is it appears T was quoting to put the 
issues right therefore I dont consider its expert opinion to be impartial in this case.
Even if I was persuaded that the intermittent faults existed, which currently I am not, I would 
not be able to find they made the car not of satisfactory quality because I dont know what 
the cause is. The facts dont speak for themselves. These issues could be due to a 
manufacturing fault, which would make the car not of satisfactory quality. But equally they 
could be due to the normal wear and tear that is to be expected with a used car of this age 
and price. That being so, I cannot safely conclude that on balance the car is not of 
satisfactory quality in relation to these complaint points.
Ive no basis to ask Virgin Money to refund Mr H for the warranty. I dont consider that it is 
covered by Section 75 which talks about providing cover for a single item. I am not 
persuaded that the warranty and the car are a single item. Even if I was persuaded that the 
warranty and the car were a single item I would also need to persuaded that there was either 
a misrepresentation or a breach of contract in relation to the warranty or the car and Ive not 
found that there is one.
Mr H seems very unhappy with Virgin Moneys complaint handling. Im sorry to disappoint 
him, but I cant look at that part of his complaint. Thats because complaints about how a 
complaint has been dealt with simply are not something that falls within the remit of this 
service. I realise this may be very galling for Mr H as he laid a lot of emphasis on this issue 
throughout his complaint to us. But he can take this issue no further with our service.I invited Mr H and Virgin Money to respond to my provisional decision, should they wish to 
do so. 
In brief, Mr H responded to say he was not happy with my provisional decision. He indicated 
he wanted to provide new expert reports and he wanted more time to sort this out. But in any 
event he considered that the experts reports hed already provided regarding the intermittent 
fault were sufficient and therefore he did not understand why Id not relied on them. 
Specifically, whilst Mr H acknowledged one of the experts had quoted for the work one of the 
other experts who I will call N had not.
Mr H also pointed at that at first, the supplier, had acknowledged the existence of the 
intermittent fault. It was only subsequently that the supplier claimed the fault no longer 
existed.
As to the paintwork, Mr H indicated that again at first the supplier had agreed that the 
paintwork was not of satisfactory quality and had agreed to fix it. But later on it changed its 
mind. Further, prior to the sale the supplier represented that it had carried out a 104 point 
body check. Therefore the existence of the paintwork issue and the door alignment issue 
mean the car was not as described, and therefore not of satisfactory quality.
Mr H did not think Id made any comment in my provisional decision about whether Virgin 
Money should pay him more for what Mr H sees as its complaint handling mistakes. 
However, we responded that this point had been dealt with in the final paragraph of the 
what Ive decided and why section of the provisional decision. Mr H did not mention this 
point further.
We gave Mr H the time he requested to arrange for new expert reports to be prepared. The 
deadline for this passed and as far as I am aware we have received nothing from him.
As far as I am aware we received no response from Virgin Money to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr H for his response to my provisional decision. It has been particularly helpful that 
Mr H took the time to set out his views on the redress which I proposed in my provisional 
decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller understanding of his position and concerns.
I regret to hear that Mr H is unhappy with my provisional decision. That was not my intention, 
far from it.
Im aware that Mr H wanted time to provide new experts reports. But the time for him to 
provide that information has come and gone. We have received no indication from Mr H that 
he has been able to commission the reports or if he has not, when he might be able to do so. 
My role is to help provide an effective informal dispute resolution service and to do that I 
need to act in a timely manner. So whilst ideally, Mr H would have provided the new experts 
reports, as he has not, I have to proceed based on the information Ive got.
Ns report does indicate that during a test drive it experienced the intermittent fault. There is 
no quote for the repair work, but T does indicate what repair work it could do talking about 
avenues it could explore. Therefore, Im not persuaded it is an impartial expert report. Even 
if I accepted Ns report as an impartial experts report that would not get Mr H any further. 
This is because Ns report does not identify the cause of the fault, Neither does Nr give an 
opinion on whether the fault is more likely than not to be a manufacturing fault that is a fault 
that was present when the car was supplied which makes the car not of satisfactory quality 
and that is the crux of this part of the complaint. 
The situation with the supplier is that its position is that the intermittent fault does not exist. 
And this is the position that Virgin Money has adopted too. That means that the existence of the intermittent fault is a point that the parties dont agree on. And its a point therefore that I 
have to decide upon.  The fact that the supplier previously had a different stance does not 
change this. And the same goes for the paintwork point.
Ive seen that the supplier says on its website that it does a 104 point check on cars prior to 
selling them. And I accept Mr Hs point that this could be such a specific representation that 
it formed part of the contract with him. However, there is nothing to show that the supplier 
did not do this check. I also note the supplier has two standards for the check approved 
and value. It is not clear which applies to Mr Hs car. Moreover, even if the higher standard, 
namely the approved standard applies, it could be that the supplier judged the paintwork and 
door alignment to be of the standard that a reasonable person would expect of a car of this 
age, mileage and price. The difficulty here is I dont have impartial expert information to 
show that the existence of these issues makes the car not of satisfactory quality.
In any event, all of the above about the relevance of the 104 check does not get to the heart 
of the issue this is because of what the law says about pre-existing faults which should have 
been found on examination. The point is that if there is a pre-existing fault with goods before 
they are purchased Mr H is not able to claim that the goods are not of satisfactory quality 
because of that fault, if he examined the goods before the purchase and that fault should 
have been found by that examination, which I think is the case here.  Whether or not the 104 
point check was done or not, and whether it was done to the correct standard,  does not 
undermine this point.
I recognise that Mr H did not agree that I dealt with his point about Virgin Moneys complaint 
handling. I am not clear whether Mr H accepts the response he was given. Therefore I can 
only repeat what I said in my provisional decision. Mr H seems very unhappy with Virgin 
Moneys complaint handling. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I cant look at that part of his 
complaint. Thats because complaints about how a complaint has been dealt with simply are 
not something that falls within the remit of this service. I realise this may be very galling for 
Mr H as he laid a lot of emphasis on this issue throughout his complaint to us. But he can 
take this issue no further with our service.
I have not been persuaded by Mr Hs response to my provisional decision. It follows that I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman