DRN-2743182
The complaint
Mr T complains Sainsburys Bank Plc is holding him liable for payments made on his credit 
card while he was on holiday. He says he didnt agree to the payments and asks Sainsburys 
to remove them from his credit card balance. 
What happened
Mr T held a credit card account with Sainsburys. In 2019 he went on holiday with friends. He 
attended a bar with his friends late one night, and the next morning discovered spending on 
his credit card he didnt recognise. There were five payments which totalled a significant sum 
of money.
Mr T says he received a text from his current account provider, raising a suspicious 
payment. He didnt recognise the payment, so his bank refunded it to his current account. He 
remembered he also used his credit card at the bar, so contacted Sainsburys to see if there 
were any payments he didnt recognise and discovered there were.
Sainsburys declined Mr Ts fraud claim. It concluded he agreed to the payments because 
they were made by chip and PIN. Unhappy with this response, Mr T raised a complaint 
which was rejected for the same reason, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary they found:
Under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Sainsburys should refund any 
payments Mr T didnt consent to. But consent here does not mean informed 
consent; it doesnt mean Mr T needed to know all the details of each payment, just 
that he agreed to make a payment. So, under the PSRs he consented to the 
payments, even though he was tricked by the merchant.
Sainsburys has wider obligations to Mr T beyond the PSRs. It should also monitor 
customers accounts and take reasonable action to prevent customers falling victim 
to financial harm, particularly fraud and scams.
The payments were unusual for Mr T and ought to have been picked up on at some 
point by Sainsburys. The payments were significantly larger than his usual spend 
and were made within a few hours. Sainsburys records show it texted Mr T about the 
second payment to confirm whether it was genuine, so it did pick up on the activity.
Sainsburys should not have processed the fourth payment and fifth payment. 
Instead, it should have tried to contact Mr T and not acted on any further payment 
requests until it had heard from him.
Sainsburys should remove the fourth and fifth payments from Mr Ts outstanding 
credit card balance, including the non-sterling fees he was charged for each of those 
payments. It should also pay Mr T £150 for the trouble and upset he was caused.
Mr T accepted the investigators findings as fair. But Sainsburys rejected the findings and 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why:
Im satisfied Mr T was the unfortunate victim of an unscrupulous merchant. Ive 
considered online reviews of the bar Mr T went to, as well as reports about a police 
investigation into an un-named bar in that area, which Mr T says was the same bar. 
And considering the size of the payments and how close they were to each other, I 
find it likely Mr T was purposefully overcharged by the merchant without his 
knowledge.
I find Mr T likely consented to each payment under the PSRs 2017. So, under those 
regulations Sainsburys do not need to discount the payments. But Sainsburys 
responsibilities to Mr T did not end with the PSRs. Taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Sainsburys should fairly and 
reasonably:
oHave been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
oHave had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
oIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Sainsburys had a concern about the payments while they were being made. Its fraud 
monitoring system picked up on the activity after the second payment, and it sent   
Mr T a text about the second payment. I understand why. The payments were 
unusual, considering Mr Ts usual account usage.
Sainsburys didnt block the third payment. But the third payment was for a slightly 
lesser amount than the second payment, and Sainsburys hadnt heard back from   
Mr T after sending its text. From what I have seen the text wasnt received. So, not 
stopping the third payment was to some extent understandable. 
The fourth and fifth payments were for much larger amounts than the previous 
payments. And by this time the total spend on Mr Ts credit card was such that 
Sainsburys ought not to have processed any more payments until it had managed to contact him. It ought to have been concerned by what was happening on the account 
and realised it needed to speak to him.
Had Sainsburys acted as it should have its very unlikely the fourth and fifth 
payments would have been processed. The merchant would not have been able to 
put through anymore payments until Mr T spoke to Sainsburys  at which point he 
would have confirmed the payments werent genuine.
Sainsburys say blocking the card would have been unreasonable. It could have left 
Mr T with no access to his card while on holiday. But I disagree. I find it would have 
been reasonable given Mr Ts circumstances and how concerning the activity on his 
account was. If Mr T found he couldnt use his card, he could have contacted 
Sainsburys to clarify matters.
Putting things right
I find Sainsburys should not hold Mr T responsible for the fourth and fifth payments. To put 
things right it should:
Calculate the total of the fourth and fifth payments, the non-sterling transaction fees 
for those payments, and any interest and charges that accrued on the payments 
which have not already been refunded.
If Mr T still has a current outstanding credit card debt, deduct the amount above from 
what he owes.
If Mr T made payments to his card after the fraud, which would cause there to a 
positive balance after the above sum is deducted, that balance should be refunded to 
him. 8% simple interest per annum should also be added to this sum, calculated from 
the time Mr T went into the positive balance to the time redress is paid to him.
Pay Mr T £150 for the stress and trouble he was no doubt caused by its failure to 
limit his loss.
Any redress due to Mr T should be paid to him within 28 days of him accepting this 
decision.
For the reasons I have given, I am upholding this complaint.
My final decisionI have decided to uphold this complaint, and I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to follow the 
instructions I have detailed above to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman