DRN-2256193
The complaint
Mr C complains that he has lost out on interest on his account with Bank of Scotland plc as 
he asked to speak with a financial adviser about generating the best rate of interest but was 
told there wasnt one.
What happened
Mr C visited his local branch of Bank of Scotland as he wanted to speak to a financial 
adviser about getting a better rate of interest on his money. However, he was told that the 
branch didnt have one. A representative at the branch told Mr C about an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) that he could invest £20,000 in which would earn some interest but said they 
wouldnt be able to help advise him on the rest of his money.
 
In March 2020, Mr C visited the branch to get copies of some bank statements. He was told 
this would incur a charge of £5. Mr C complained that he wasnt getting any interest on his 
money, but that Bank of Scotland was charging him for the statements. The representative 
waived the charge for him and said he could speak with a banking consultant about the 
interest rates. But Mr C said hed been previously told when he visited more than a year 
before that there wasnt anyone he could speak with about this. He was told that the branch 
didnt have his contact details, when hed banked with that branch for many years.
The branch manager called Mr C and discussed his accounts and the available interest 
rates. Mr C recalls them telling him that he would be better leaving his money where it was 
as he wouldnt get any interest. 
Bank of Scotland said that it no longer offered any financial advisory services in its branches 
and that Mr C would need to speak with an independent financial adviser or one of its 
banking consultants. It apologised that it had not been able to provide Mr C with the service 
he was looking for and paid £100 into his account for the trouble and upset he was caused 
by this. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that when Mr C had initially asked about getting advice on his savings, Bank of Scotland 
didnt have financial advisers in its branches. And then, at his more recent visit, there was a 
banking consultant at the branch who would only being able to talk about Bank of Scotlands 
available savings accounts and interest rates. They wouldnt have been able to give Mr C 
financial advice. 
The investigator said that he appreciated that Mr C was left unhappy with after his 
conversation with the branch manager, but he said this call hadnt been recorded. The 
investigator reviewed the notes from the branch manager, who had said they had given Mr C 
information about the available interest rates and it had been Mr Cs decision to leave his 
money in his account. Although the investigator felt that Bank of Scotland hadnt provided 
Mr C with the best level of customer service; he thought the £100 compensation it had paid 
him was fair for this. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that his complaint was about getting 
no interest on the money he has held for many years with Bank of Scotland. He said the 
£100 compensation was for the time taken to deal with his complaint. He said he finds it 
strange that the call with the branch manager wasnt recorded. He said he was not looking 
for financial advice about where to invest his money, he was just looking for the best rate of 
interest. He is looking for payment for the lack of interest on his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about the lack of interest and advice he received 
on the money he has with Bank of Scotland, particularly as he has been a customer for 
many years.
I can understand that Mr C wanted to see if he could get a better rate of interest on his 
money. Hes told us that he wasnt looking for specific financial advice.
 
Bank of Scotland no longer offers such a financial advisory service in its branches however 
its banking consultants are able to discuss its range of savings accounts and the available 
interest rates. And it seems it was this service that was offered to Mr C when he visited the 
branch this year. 
It is unfortunate that this couldnt have been provided when he previously visited and 
transferred some of his savings into an ISA. And I can understand that Mr C will have been 
disappointed and frustrated if he felt he wasnt receiving the best rate of interest he could 
have achieved.
But I dont think this means that Bank of Scotland caused Mr C to lose out on receiving a 
better rate of interest on his money, when there were other ways for him to be able to find 
out what interest rates and savings accounts it had available other than by speaking directly 
with one of its consultants. And Mr C would also have had the option of seeking specific 
financial advice elsewhere, if he wished.
Bank of Scotland has told us that calls from branches are not recorded, so it hasnt been 
able to review Mr Cs conversation with the branch manager, or provide it to us. However, it 
has apologised for how Mr C was left feeling following this call and has acknowledged that it 
hadnt been able to provide him with the level of service he wanted. It has credited his 
account with £100 to recognise this.
Taking everything into account, and while I appreciate that Mr C may be wanting a higher 
level of compensation to recognise the interest he feels he could have received on the 
money he holds with Bank of Scotland, I consider its apology and payment of £100 
represents a fair resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has already made a payment of £100 to Mr C and I 
think this is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman