DRN-2915076
The complaint
Mr B complains about issues he had when taking out a motor insurance policy through IGO4
Limited trading as WiseDriving.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 22 June 2021. I planned on coming to the 
same outcome as our investigator, but I provided more commentary and reasoning for my 
decision. I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision 
with anything else they wanted me to consider, before I issued my final decision. Both 
parties have now responded, so Im in a position to come to a final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
On 4 June 2019, Mr B took out a motor insurance policy through WiseDriving. The terms of
the policy were that Mr Bs car was fitted with a telematics device, also known as a black
box.
Mr B received the black box and installed it himself. Then in August 2019, Mr B received an
email from WiseDriving stating that the data from the box was showing as an anomaly and
requested pictures of the black box inside the car. Mr B didnt send the photos immediately,
and so WiseDriving sent Mr B another email saying that it was going to cancel his policy
because it hadnt heard back from him.
Mr B says he sent a number of photos of the black box to WiseDriving, and he was given
different information each time  mainly saying that the it was wired incorrectly and that hed
need to switch the connecting wires round.
WiseDriving continued to send Mr B emails saying that it was going to cancel the policy if the
black box wasnt fitted correctly.
Mr B then took his car to a garage, at his own cost, so that they could install the device. The
garage said that the hooks provided on the device wouldnt connect the device to the engine
properly, and so they had to tape it down.
It doesnt appear that this worked, and WiseDriving carried on sending Mr B emails to
request that he got in touch about the device, and that it would cancel his policy if the issue
wasnt sorted.
Mr B complained to WiseDriving about the issues he was having. WiseDriving responded to
say that the telematics device wasnt installed correctly, and this was the cause of the
anomalies in the data it received. It offered him £25 for a delay in it getting back to him after
Mr B had provided it with some photos.
In November 2019, Mr B was told that the device wasnt compatible with his car. But later,
WiseDriving confirmed that it was in fact compatible and that it hadnt been installed
correctly. In the end WiseDriving and Mr B werent able to come to a resolution and the
policy was cancelled. WiseDriving said it wouldnt charge him a cancellation fee, or charge
for the device.
Mr B remained unhappy with this. He said that hed spent a lot of time trying to resolve the
issue with WiseDriving. And that there wasnt anything more he could have done to comply
with WiseDrivings requests. He said that the possibility of his insurance being cancelled was
making him anxious.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and she upheld his complaint. She didnt think
that £25 was enough to compensate Mr B with the delays and the inconsistent information
Mr B was given, she thought that £100 would be more appropriate. She also thought that
WiseDriving should refund Mr B the £30 he paid for the garage to fit the device.
WiseDriving responded to our investigator to say it didnt agree. It said that the garage
securing the wires with tape wasnt enough to check if the device was working or not  and
taping the wires wasnt secure. They also said that the device was compatible with Mr Bs
vehicle and it could have successfully been fitted. They said that because Mr B couldnt
successfully fit the box, it removed the cancellation fee and telematic fee that would normally
have been due when a policy is cancelled mid-term.
It said it wasnt fair to ask it to reimburse Mr B £30 for the cost of him going to a garage to
have it fitted. It didnt feel the garage had done enough to try and install it. It feels that the
removal of the cancellation fee, telematics fee and the £25 if offered as compensation was
enough to resolve this complaint.
Because WiseDriving didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Firstly, I dont find that it was unfair of WiseDriving to say it was going to cancel Mr Bs policy
if the issue of the telematics device wasnt resolved. It was part of the terms and conditions
of the insurance that a device was fitted. So, I dont find its actions here unreasonable.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I still dont think the issues with the device are clear. But
what is clear is that Mr B has done everything he possibly could to attempt to resolve the
matter. And I dont find that WiseDriving has been of much assistance in this.
Mr B complied with each of WiseDrivings requests to reinstall the device. He did this each
time and sent photos when WiseDriving said it wasnt installed properly. Mr B even took his
car to the garage to have the device fitted after he wasnt having any success. The garage
let Mr B know that the hooks on the device werent sufficient to securely attach the device
and so they taped it down too. But this didnt help either.
Presumably, it should be relatively simple and straightforward for a customer to be able to fit
the device themselves without the need for professional help. But even when Mr B did get
professional help from a garage, they still werent able to install it. If numerous attempts by
Mr B, and an attempt by the garage mechanic to install the device wasnt successful, thenthis to me, suggests that there could have been a problem with the device itself.
While I appreciate WiseDrivings comments, in that the device was compatible with the
vehicle, and that Mr B had installed it incorrectly, WiseDriving hasnt sent me anything to
show me clearly that there was a problem with the installation. Based on the information Ive
seen, I cant see that WiseDriving have explored the possibility that there was a fault with the
device itself. It could have asked Mr B for photos of the device to check there werent any
obvious issues with it. Or they could have sent him another one to see if this helped things.
But I cant see it offered any real resolution to the problems Mr B was having.
Based on what Mr B has said, and I havent seen any information to refute this, I dont think
he was given clear instruction about what he needed to do to remedy the issue, and some of
the information hes been given has been inconsistent. The device itself only had two wires
on it, yet Mr B says he was told twice that the wires were the wrong way around  one of the
ways of wiring he tried must have been correct. Mr B was also told by one of WiseDrivings
representatives that the device wasnt compatible with his car. But WiseDriving are now
saying that it is.
Its clear that Mr B has spent a lot of time trying to sort things out. And I can understand how
stressful and frustrating it must be to be continually receiving emails over a period of four
months saying that the insurance would be cancelled if the issues werent sorted.
WiseDriving also took three weeks to respond to Mr B on one occasion  I know it accepts
that this was too long and offered Mr B £25 for this. But overall, and based on what Ive said
above, I dont agree that WiseDriving has done enough for Mr B, and I intend to uphold this
complaint.
WiseDriving feel that theyve already done enough to put things right for Mr B  by waiving
the telematics device fee and the cancellation fee for the policy, but I dont think this is
enough. Mr B hasnt had any benefit from the box, and it wasnt ever his intention to cancel
the policy. So I wouldnt have expected WiseDriving to charge him for either of these things
anyway.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, it is my decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Both Mr B and WiseDriving responded to say it didnt have anything else they wanted me to . 
Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
WiseDriving should do what Ive said below to put things right for Mr B.
WiseDriving needs to reimburse Mr B £30 which is what he paid to the garage to 
have the device fitted.
It needs to pay Mr B 8% simple interest from the date Mr B paid the £30 to the date it 
settles this complaint. *
It needs to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If WiseDriving consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from thatinterest, they should tell Mr B how much they have taken off, and give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I now order IGO4 Limited  
trading as WiseDriving to put things right for Mr B by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman