DRN-3787512
The complaint
Mr Ss representative has complained, on his behalf, that Pensionhelp Limited gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in her 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr S received a BSPS cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of just over £285,000 which 
was guaranteed until 22 December 2017. 
Mr S had 18 years and 6 months of pensionable service and a total annual pension
amount of approximately £10,000 at the date of leaving the scheme. This would include a 
50% spouses pension.
Mr S was referred to Pensionhelp Limited by a different financial firm. He met with an adviser
and a fact find was completed dated 8 November 2017.
Mr S was provided with a suitability report dated 6 December 2017 which set out the
recommendation. It recorded his circumstances as follows:
He was 46 and intended to retire at age 67.
He lived with his partner.
He was in good health, but was under medication for a particular condition.
He had one financially dependent child.
He was employed, earning £34,248 pa.
He owned his home, worth around £100,000, and had a mortgage on it of around 
£11,800. 
He had a personal loan with £8,800 outstanding, as well as a credit card with
£5,000 outstanding. 
He had no other assets.
The report recorded Mr Ss objectives as follows:
You have indicated that your priorities are to be able to have greater flexibility in how you 
can take your benefits.
To guarantee your dependants death benefits (lump sum for [partner]).
This is because you plan to retire at age 67 and do not wish to take the scheme benefits 
offered at that age.
The main driver of looking at a transfer at this time is that the BSPS is in severe financial
difficulty following the takeover by TATA steel.
The report confirmed Mr Ss attitude to risk was Risk profile 7  growth and his capacity for 
loss was recorded as medium.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was produced on 24 November 2017.
The report showed the critical yield for transferring the BSPS benefits to a Royal London 
Pension Portfolio was 6.55% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a retirement age of 65.
The report confirmed the fund required to purchase the annuity to provide benefits of equal
value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme at retirement was £757,553.
Mr S was advised to transfer his BSPS benefits to a Royal London PPP invested in the 
Governed Portfolio 7.
Mr S was charged an Initial fee of £8,217, paid as a deduction from the plan, in addition to 
other fund and product charges.
The application was completed, and the discharge form was signed by Mr S on 8 December 
2017. The Royal London PPP was established with a full transfer from the BSPS.
Having assessed the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. In 
summary, the investigator considered that it was unlikely that Mr S would be financially 
better off by transferring, given his attitude to risk and the critical yield just to match the 
scheme benefits.
She also wasnt persuaded that objectives such as flexibility of income or lump sum death 
benefits were sufficient reasons for Mr S to have transferred.
The investigator recommended that Pensionhelp Limited undertake a loss calculation in 
accordance with the regulators guidance (FG17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis 
that Mr S would have opted to join the BSPS 2.She said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ss pension plan, but if 
this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr S, with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Pensionhelp Limited didnt agree with the investigators findings, but said that it would 
undertake the loss calculation. Having done so, it said that Mr S had suffered no financial 
loss as a result of the transfer.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome, however, and requested that the matter be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, she said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Pensionhelp 
Limited to use the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr S.
The investigator said that if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint, they should let her
know by 8 June 2023.
Pensionhelp Limited then undertook the loss calculation on the new basis.
The (further) investigator considered the calculation and wrote to Mr Ss representative 
confirming his view that it had been carried out appropriately. He noted that the calculation 
had assumed that Mr S was in a civil partnership, which wasnt the case, but this had only 
served to overstate the value of BSPS benefits which were compared against the value of 
the PPP benefits.
As the calculation still showed that there was no shortfall in the value of Mr Ss PPP, he was 
satisfied that that particular assumption hadnt adversely affected the overall outcome of the 
calculation.
The investigator concluded that Mr S had sufficient funds in his PPP to replicate the defined 
benefits in retirement. And so no redress was therefore due.
Mr Ss representative requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman, however, 
saying that he would like an ombudsman to reach a final decision on the level of award in 
respect of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
The matter has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand that Pensionhelp Limited didnt accept the investigators findings relating to 
suitability. However, it didnt explain why it disagreed, and has nevertheless carried out a 
loss calculation. So I dont see the need to address the suitability of their advice to Mr S in 
detail. 
Suffice to say, however, that I agree with the investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for largely the same reasons.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Ss best interest to give up his 
defined benefits.
Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr S as agreement hasnt been 
reached on the outcome.
The aim is to put Mr S back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the defined benefit scheme. Pensionhelp Limited has carried out a 
calculation using a specific BSPS calculator provided by the FCA, which is what I would 
expect it to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Pensionhelp Limited which are personal to 
Mr S. These include Mr Ss personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the 
date he left the scheme and the value of his PPP. The calculation also assumes that if he 
hadnt been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, and taking note of what the investigator has already said 
about the anomaly relating to Mr Ss recorded civil partnered status, I think the calculation 
has been carried out appropriately and in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Mr Ss representative also hasnt suggested that the calculation has been undertaken 
incorrectly. 
I have, however, noted the comments relating to an award in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Ive carefully considered the matter, but note that the investigator didnt recommend a 
payment in her initial assessment - and Mr Ss representative made no submission in 
response to that assessment about the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
Additionally, in its response to the investigators assessment of the redress calculation, Mr 
Ss representative hasnt articulated how and to what extent Mr S has suffered to justify such 
an award. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think that a non-financial award is appropriate in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. But for the reasons set out above, 
Pensionhelp Limited doesnt need to taken any further action in response to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman