DRN-2794931
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database and closed her account.
What happened
Miss K says that the marker hadnt been added fairly and this has caused her difficulties with 
her account at a different financial business.
Lloyds said that it wouldnt be removing the marker. Four counterfeit cheques each for £20 
had been paid into Miss Ks account on 14 October 2019. It had reported this to CIFAS and 
decided to close her account under the terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss K said that she did not 
pay in these cheques. She said that she had lent a friend money and believed that she was 
being paid back. But Lloyds had shown that the cheques were deposited using a mobile app 
and that Miss K had accessed her account online at this time. Miss K had told Lloyds that 
she hadnt provided her online account and log in details to anyone else. So, our investigator 
thought that Miss K was aware of these cheques. Lloyds was entitled to decide to close the 
account.
Miss K didnt agree and said that she wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint. She 
has explained the anxiety she has been caused by this marker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Miss K hasnt show she was entitled to these funds or was due to receive this money from a 
friend. And Im afraid that what Miss K says about what happened doesnt tie up to the 
evidence Lloyds has provided. It has shown that these cheques were paid in on the evening 
of 14 October 2019 using the mobile app which required a log in to Miss Ks account. And 
that there had been an access made to the account online just before that too. Miss K said 
that all she had provided to the friend was her sort code and account number. But that 
wouldnt have been sufficient to enable someone else to pay in the cheques in this way. So, 
either Miss K paid them in herself, or she allowed someone else access to her account to do 
so. In either case I think she was responsible for what happened and the attempt to benefit 
from counterfeit cheques. From the call recordings Ive listened to with Lloyds and our 
investigator I know she is aware of whose account the cheques were actually coming from. 
And I dont think she could reasonably think as a result that these were from the friend she 
says owed money to her.
Lloyds was entitled under the terms and conditions to decide to close her account and thats 
not something I would interfere with. 
Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss K received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Lloyds needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Ks account of events and the evidence Lloyds has provided, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss K received fraudulent funds into her account.
- She was in control of who was going to have the benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Miss K attempted to benefit from fraudulently 
obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman