DRN-3842578
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against his motor 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Aviva settled Mr As motor claim by paying him the market value of his vehicle 
that was deemed a total loss. After they settled it, Mr A contacted Aviva to query whether he 
could retain the salvage of the vehicle. 
After some delay, Aviva responded to say Mr A could, but he would need to pay £3,300. Mr 
A declined this and complained. He says Aviva didnt make him aware he could retain the 
salvage of the vehicle during the claim process and has since purchased a replacement 
vehicle. He was also unhappy with the way Aviva communicated with him. 
Aviva responded to the complaint and paid Mr A £200 compensation for the communication 
issues. They said, however, they settled the claim fairly and wasnt required under the policy 
to ask Mr A if he wished to retain the salvage of the vehicle. They also say they sent Mr A an 
email that said, as he accepted the settlement, the salvage of the vehicle became their 
property. As Mr A remained unhappy, he approached our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to decide, so 
the case was passed to me to have our services final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the most Aviva will pay to settle a total loss claim is the market value  thats 
how they settled Mr As claim. The policy doesnt say Aviva is required to ask if a 
policyholder wishes to retain the salvage of a vehicle, so I wouldnt have expected Aviva to 
do this here. 
Aviva says they generally dont recommend a policyholder retains the salvage of a vehicle  
and dont proactively offer this due to several reasons. In Mr As case, they say it wouldnt 
have been economical for him to retain the salvage of the vehicle given the cost of repairs 
involved, the market value of the vehicle, and the cost to Mr A to retain it. 
Mr A says the vehicle involved in the claim held sentimental value  which I dont doubt. But, 
as above, the policy doesnt require Aviva to offer this as an option to a policyholder. Had Mr 
A queried whether he could retain the salvage of the vehicle during the time the claim was 
progressing to settlement, Id have expected Aviva to discuss this further with him and 
explain the options available. 
Once Mr A did query this, the claim file suggests Aviva  despite some delay provided him 
with an option to retain it. Although, Mr A declined this and says hed purchased a 
replacement vehicle. 
Overall, based on the information available to me, Im not satisfied Aviva treated Mr A 
unfairly by not asking if he wished to retain the salvage of the vehicle. I say this because the 
policy doesnt require Aviva to offer this option to a policyholder during the claim. So, I wont 
be requiring Aviva to do anything in relation to this complaint point. 
Ive also considered the service issues and I agree with Mr A there were some. I think Aviva 
caused confusion and delays when Mr A was emailing them for information, updates, and 
had to chase several times. Ive no doubt this would have added to Mr As frustration. 
That said, Ive seen Aviva paid Mr A £200 compensation in recognition of the impact their 
handling of certain aspects had on him. I think this demonstrates Aviva took reasonable 
steps here to acknowledge their service errors and attempted to put matters right fairly. 
Overall, I find £200 compensation for the service issues Mr A faced to be fair, reasonable, 
and proportionate in the circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be requiring Aviva to 
take any further action. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman