DRN-1963536
The complaint
Mr D complains about how AWP P&C SA handled his travel insurance claim when he was 
injured abroad. 
What happened
Mr D held a travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday, Mr D fell and suffered severe injuries. Mr D was admitted to 
hospital and Mr C, who was acting on his behalf abroad, contacted AWP to notify it about the 
claim. 
Mr D had several operations and was in hospital for nearly five weeks before being 
discharged. AWP then attempted to arrange for Mr D to be repatriated back to the UK but, 
when Mr D didnt confirm his agreement to the arrangements, AWP withdrew cover under 
his travel insurance policy. 
A few months later, Mr D made his own way back to the UK. 
Throughout the course of the claim, both Mr D and Mr C complained to AWP about the 
hospital where Mr D had been admitted. Mr D subsequently complained about the following;
the lack of communication between AWP and the hospital;
AWP had initially agreed to pay for his hospital bills but later changed its mind, so 
Mr D received letters of demand for payment;
AWP planned to repatriate him to a city where he hadnt lived for a year and where 
he had no support, at a time when he was unable to care for himself;
AWP refused to repatriate Mr C with him, when the terms and conditions of his policy 
provide for this;
the timelines given by AWP for his repatriation.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service, assisted initially by Mr C. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but, overall, said he didnt think AWP had 
treated Mr D unfairly. He said, in order to assess Mr Ds hospital costs, AWP needed Mr Ds 
consent to liaise with the hospital as well as a final itemised hospital bill.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr D, and about the ongoing impact the situation 
has had upon him. I have no doubt that having such a serious accident, while alone and far 
from home, will have been extremely distressing and frightening. 
Ive fully reviewed all the information which AWP, Mr D and Mr C have provided to decide 
whether I think AWP dealt with this claim in a fair and reasonable way, in line with its 
obligations under Mr Ds policy. 
The hospital where Mr D was treated 
Mr C engaged in lengthy correspondence with the hospital expressing dissatisfaction with its 
actions. In addition, Mr D has queried why the hospital changed his treatment and his 
allocated room. 
AWP didnt send or direct Mr D to any particular hospital. Mr D was already in hospital when 
AWP was notified about his claim. According to AWPs notes, the hospital where Mr D was 
being treated was a public one which was very good, with a good standard of care. I 
understand Mr D requested to be moved to a different hospital but theres no evidence this 
was medically necessary, so I cant fairly say AWP acted unreasonably by refusing to 
arrange a transfer 
AWP confirmed to the hospital that it would cover the cost of a single room for Mr D. Based 
on the information Ive seen, AWP never withdrew this cover and AWP was either in 
communication with or attempting to communicate with the hospital almost daily. So, I think 
any decision to transfer Mr D back to a ward is likely to have been made by the hospital. The 
decisions about Mr Ds medical treatment were also made by the hospital and AWP had no 
input into these. 
If Mr D has concerns about the hospitals actions, then hed need to raise these with the 
hospital directly. 
AWPs decision about cover under Mr Ds policy 
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable investigations to satisfy itself that a claim is 
covered under the terms and conditions of a policy before accepting cover. In certain 
circumstances, this may include interviewing the policyholder. 
Because of the circumstances surrounding Mr Ds claim, AWP requested specific medical 
information from the hospital. I think AWP was reasonably entitled to do this but, because of 
delays by the hospital and a misunderstanding on the part of one of the hospital staff, AWP 
didnt receive this medical information until just over two weeks after it had first been notified 
of the claim. 
During this time, AWP was also making what I think were reasonable enquiries about how 
Mr Ds passport came to be in the British Embassys possession. AWP then requested a 
copy of a police report from Mr C which I think, again, was a reasonable request based on 
the circumstances surrounding Mr Ds claim. 
While AWP took a total of nearly three weeks to confirm cover for Mr Ds claim, I dont think 
this was unreasonable based on the circumstances of the case and Im satisfied there were 
no undue or excessive delays on the part of AWP. 
I would, however, expect AWP to have proactively communicated with Mr D about the 
payment of his hospital bills. If AWP was unable to assess and settle the bills because it 
didnt have a final invoice or because it didnt have Mr Ds consent to communicate with the hospital, then I think it would have been reasonable for AWP to have made Mr D aware of 
this at a much earlier point than it did. 
AWPs repatriation plans 
I understand Mr D wanted to be repatriated to his place of birth rather than to the city where 
AWP planned to repatriate him to. However, Ive seen evidence that AWP attempted to 
arrange Mr Ds repatriation to his place of birth but was unable to do so because Mr D didnt 
have a postal address or a GP in the region. Therefore, AWP instead arranged for 
repatriation to a hospital near the address which Mr D had given as his home address when 
buying his travel insurance policy, and I dont think this was unreasonable.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds insurance policy say, in the event of a medical 
emergency, AWP will pay:
reasonable extra transport and accommodation costs forany one other person 
who stays or travels with you or to you from your home country on medical advice 
I understand Mr D says Mr C stayed with him and, therefore, AWP should have agreed to 
repatriate Mr C back to the UK with him. But Mr D and Mr C werent travelling together, and 
Mr C doesnt live in the UK, so I dont think Mr C is someone who this section of the policy is 
intended to cover. AWP had arranged for Mr D to be repatriated with a stretcher, ambulance 
and medical team so Mr D would have had assistance on the flight home. I dont think AWP 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to repatriate Mr C as well. I understand Mr D says 
he had no support in the UK and Im sorry to hear this, but AWPs responsibilities to Mr D 
ended on his repatriation. 
I agree with Mr D that AWP provided him with a short timeline for his repatriation, over the 
Christmas period. However, Mr D had already been discharged from hospital and was 
certified as being fit to fly by his treating doctors so there was no reason for AWP to delay 
making repatriation arrangements. In addition, the temporary travel documents which AWP 
had helped to arrange for Mr D expired four days after Christmas, so time was of the 
essence. 
Furthermore, Mr Ds cover under his insurance policy had already ended at this point and 
AWP was only obliged to extend cover until Mr D could reasonably return to the UK. While I 
understand Mr D may have wished to  and indeed did  remain abroad, I dont think AWP 
acted unreasonably by attempting to repatriate him as soon as possible.
Its unfortunate that AWP quoted an incorrect date in one of its emails to Mr D about his 
repatriation, but AWP clarified this quickly and gave Mr D notice that if he didnt accept its 
repatriation offer it would not extend any further cover to him and he would have to make his 
own arrangements to return to the UK. 
Im satisfied AWP was entitled to withdraw Mr Ds cover when it did, and I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by doing so. 
Outstanding costs
Mr D has said AWP didnt pay for his replacement travel documents, as it had agreed to do, 
and didnt pay for his hotel and other expenses after he was discharged from hospital. 
If Mr D has outstanding costs which he wishes to claim for up until his cover was withdrawn 
on 25 December 2019, then he should present these to AWP for consideration. If AWP 
refuses to pay his claim or if Mr D is unhappy with the amount of any claim payment, he has the right to bring a new complaint to our service about the matter after first complaining to 
AWP directly. 
As our investigator has explained, Mr D should contact the hospital to confirm he consents to 
AWP communicating with it on his behalf, and to ask for the hospital to release the final 
itemised bill to AWP. 
I wish Mr D well with his recovery and I hope his situation improves. Although I think AWP 
could have communicated more clearly with Mr D at certain points, overall, I think it handled 
his claim as it should have. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but I wont be asking AWP to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman