DRN-1214023
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc hadnt paid him back for a disputed transaction on his 
account, although it said it would. He also complained about how TSB had handled the 
chargeback request he made.
What happened
Mr J went on holiday and hired a car. His card was charged by the hire company after the 
hire period had ended. Mr J said someone in his party did owe the hire company money, but 
whatever had happened was nothing to do with him. So he shouldnt have been charged. Mr 
J raised a chargeback request with TSB. 
TSB initially credited his account with the disputed amount. But it took this credit back almost 
straight away. Then his chargeback request was refused. 
Mr J said TSB told him several times it would reimburse this money, but this never 
happened. 
TSB said it had done all it could with Mr Js chargeback request. It had just been turned 
down. There was nothing else it could do. 
Out investigator said TSB had processed Mr Js chargeback request in a reasonable 
timescale. The card scheme operator, whose symbol is on Mr Js card, decided the 
chargeback request. That card scheme operator turned it down. That wasnt TSBs decision, 
so we wouldnt look at that. 
Mr Js account had initial been credited, then TSB took the credit back. But our investigator 
said that credit and debit happened the same day, so he thought that there was no 
significant loss of expectation for Mr J there. 
Our investigator did think that, in later conversations towards the end of May, Mr J was given 
the false expectation that he would get a refund of the disputed amount. Mr J borrowed 
money on the strength of that reassurance from TSB. Our investigator said that doesnt 
mean TSB has to pay all the disputed amount, but he thought TSB should pay Mr J £100 for 
that now.
TSB sent us call recordings from when Mr J first discussed this dispute with TSB. It said it 
hadnt given Mr J false hope that he would receive a refund. Because TSB didnt agree with 
our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that TSB processed Mr Js chargeback request appropriately, and reasonably 
promptly. I think its important to note that TSB pressed this chargeback request as far as it 
was able to do. Ultimately, it wasnt successful. But thats not TSBs decision. Its a decision 
made by the card scheme operator, so it doesnt form part of this complaint. 
Our investigator said there was a problem though, with what TSB had told Mr J was 
happening. TSB didnt agree, and it sent us some recordings from when Mr J first told it 
about this dispute. TSB said it didnt say anything to Mr J that would have given him reason 
to believe his money would be paid back. 
The calls TSB shared with us appear to be talking Mr J through how he registers a 
chargeback request. I dont think there is anything on those recordings that wouldve led Mr 
J to believe he was getting all his money back. 
But I just dont think thats what our investigator was referring to. I can see in TSBs notes for 
31 May, the following 
customer rang in as he was told by debit disputes team that he would get £480 
refunded to him within 48 hours on Tuesday. I rang through to Debit disputes who 
said this information was correct, can see the [notes] as well which said that the 
customer would get a refund. Debit disputes said that she is speaking to her 
manager and that she will get the payment paid into the account where the initial 
payment had come out o, advised that she will get it done today. 
Elsewhere on TSBs notes for the same day, I can see that Mr J rang 
querying why funds not credited to acc as per his complaint  adv [customer] this 
will be sorted today for him. 
Further notes on 3 June say some staff members within TSB 
have incorrectly agreed that a refund can be made in 48 hours.
So I think TSBs notes are clear. TSB has told us it did give Mr J a firm reassurance that he 
would be receiving a full refund. 
Like our investigator, I dont think this means that TSB has to pay all the money back now. 
But I do think TSB should pay Mr J some compensation for the disappointment hes 
experienced, and the unnecessary extra stress of finding out that an anticipated refund 
wasnt going to be paid. So I think that TSB should pay Mr J £100 in compensation now. I 
think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr J £100 in compensation.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman