DRN-2589091
The complaint
Mrs R complains that NewDay Ltd charged interest on her purchases, despite her paying off 
those purchases in full.
What happened
Mrs R took out a credit card with NewDay in May 2019. In February 2020, Mrs R transferred 
a balance on to her credit card account. NewDay was offering 0% on balance transfers for 
12 months at the time. Once the balance transfer was complete, Mrs R made a number of 
retail purchases using her credit card. 
In May 2020, Mrs R made payments towards her account, with the intention of paying off the 
retail purchases shed made before interest was charged on them. But despite this, NewDay 
applied interest to the purchases. So Mrs R complained, saying she didnt recall agreeing to 
this when she applied for the balance transfer.
NewDay didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. It said any retail or cash purchases made after a 
balance transfer goes through, dont benefit from an interest-free period  and that Mrs R 
wouldve been informed of this.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service, saying she 
wasnt made aware that interest would be payable on her purchases, even if she paid 
enough money towards her card to pay off the purchases in full each month. She believes 
the way NewDay applied her payments was incorrect and that she was penalised for having 
made a balance transfer. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
NewDay had acted in line with the Terms and Conditions of Mrs Rs account. As Mrs R didnt 
agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mrs Rs complaint. I know Mrs R will be 
disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain why I wont be requiring NewDay to do 
anything further. 
Mrs Rs credit agreement with NewDay says:
We calculate interest from the date each transaction (including any applicable fee) is 
added to your account, until the date that transaction has been repaid in fullWe do 
not charge interest on purchases (other than those on instalment plans) made during 
your last statement period if you repay your outstanding balance, including any 
balance transfersby the payment due date and you also paid your previous 
months outstanding balance in full by the due date.
Im satisfied from the above that Mrs R wouldve had to pay off her outstanding balance in 
full, including the balance transfer, in order for interest not to be applied to her subsequent 
purchases.
The credit agreement further states:
When you make a repayment to uswe will use your payment to pay off the 
different balances in the following order: cash transactions, money transfers, balance 
transfers, other promotional offer balances and then purchases.
Based on this, I think NewDay has applied Mrs Rs payment and also applied interest in the 
way it said it would. According to the Terms and Conditions, it wouldve applied Mrs Rs 
payment to her balance transfer ahead of her purchases. And it wouldve applied interest to 
Mrs Rs retail purchases from the date of purchase, as her account balance had not been 
paid off in full. So Im satisfied NewDay has acted in line with the Terms and Conditions of 
Mrs Rs agreement with it.
I appreciate it was Mrs Rs intention, when transferring a balance to her credit card, to take 
advantage of the 0% interest offer  and that her intention in making the payments in 
May 2020 was to pay off the retail purchases before interest was applied to them. And I 
understand thats why this must be frustrating for her. But, I still dont think NewDay has 
done anything wrong here. Having read the promotional information Mrs R wouldve had 
access to at the time she made the balance transfer request, and the correspondence Mrs R 
received confirming the balance transfer had been successful, I think these made it clear 
that if a balance transfer remained on the account, interest would be charged at the standard 
rate on subsequent purchases, until the whole balance had been repaid in full.
Mrs R says she has been penalised for making a balance transfer, and that she didnt see 
much of the information thats been presented during the course of this complaint  but Im 
satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, that the relevant information was accessible to Mrs R 
and made clear before she applied for the balance transfer. It follows therefore, that I dont 
think NewDay has acted unfairly here.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman