DRN-3518798
The complaint
Miss J complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her three credit  
accounts that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss J entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with three separate 
credit card accounts. The first, an Aqua account, was opened for her in December 2018 with 
a credit limit of £1,200. In July 2019 the credit limit was increased to £2,700.The second, an 
AO account, was opened for her in November 2019 with a credit limit of £900. The third, a 
Fluid account, was opened for her in December 2020 with a credit limit of £900.   
Miss J says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened each 
of these accounts. She says if it had, it would have seen that each of these agreements  
wasnt affordable for her as she didnt have enough income to make the repayments and 
was already in financial difficulty. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Miss Js financial circumstances before granting her the credit accounts for each 
card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld for the Aqua and AO accounts 
but said NewDay shouldnt have agreed to give Miss J credit by way of the Fluid account. 
Since Miss J didnt agree with our adjudicators findings, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting each of these accounts, NewDay needed to look into Miss Js financial 
situation. 
Aqua
Before opening the Aqua account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Miss J about her ability to repay. This included completing a 
credit check that gave an indication of her financial situation. This showed she had around 
£4,700 in unsecured borrowing and ongoing credit commitments. It also showed there were 
no accounts in arrears and that it was well over a year since there had been a default in any 
of her borrowing. So from what Ive seen, I think these checks look to have been 
proportionate. But I still need to think about whether NewDay made a fair lending decision.   I 
say this because even if I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Miss J. I say this because Miss Js card application details showed her as having an annual 
income of around £25,500. So given her financial history and the income shed declared 
alongside the relatively low credit limit shed been given, I dont think NewDay acted unfairly 
when approving the finance application.
Looking at the credit limit increase to this account, I agree with our adjudicator that it would 
have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more about any 
changes to Miss Js income, as well as the level of committed expenditure she had at that 
time. I say this especially have seen that she the amount she owed around £15,112 in 
unsecured debt which that was ongoing by then. Ive seen from the bank statements Miss J 
has given us that she likely had enough disposable income available each month to be able 
to at least meet her monthly minimum payment requirements. I say this having seen that she 
had a monthly income that worked out at around £1,700 per month. The bank statements 
show that Miss Js regular monthly committed outgoings were around £1400. I think this 
evidence shows that Miss J was likely in a position to be able to make sustainable 
repayments to the account with this increased credit limit. Therefore, if  NewDay had 
completed proportionate checks, I think It may well have found this to be the case. That 
means I dont consider that NewDay acted unfairly in granting Miss J an increased limit for 
this account. 
AO Finance
At the time of granting the AO Finance account, Miss J had an annual declared income of 
around £27,000. Ive seen that she was also now funding a small mortgage. Given that this 
account would have brought the amount of credit Miss J had with NewDay to £3,600, I think 
it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order to 
understand Miss Js financial situation. So I think NewDay ought to have taken steps to find 
out more about Miss Js daily spending commitments, including her regular living costs. 
I think that had NewDay carried out further checks, it would likely have found that she had 
enough disposable income available to meet her existing financial commitments whilst 
maintaining her new account. I say this because the bank statements Ive seen from around 
this time show its likely that Miss J had enough disposable income available each month to 
be able to at least meet her monthly minimum payment requirements. I say this given that I 
agree with our adjudicator that she had a monthly income that worked out at around £1,800 
per month, with committed expenditure of around £1,400. If NewDay had completed 
proportionate checks by looking at these, I think its likely it would have found this to be the 
case  although I note that she was beginning to make increased use of the overdraft facility 
on her bank account. That means I dont consider NewDay acted unfairly in giving Miss J the 
this credit. 
Fluid 
At the time of granting the Fluid account  which was only a month after arranging the AO 
account - Miss J had an annual declared income of around £28,000. The application showed her has having an unsecured debt balance of £12,300. The three NewDay accounts would 
now have given Miss J a total credit limit of £4,500. And given that Miss J had increased her 
level of debt further whilst having an apparent reduction in her income, I think it would have 
been proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order to understand Miss Js 
financial situation at this point. 
The bank statement information Miss J has provided show she had monthly committed 
expenditure, including daily living costs, of around £1,355, whilst her average monthly 
income was around £1,800. She was making increased use of her bank overdraft facility. 
And by this point Miss Js pattern of spending outside of this committed expenditure was 
likely at a level that she would be left with little, if any, disposable income. This included 
continuing use of gambling sites. On this basis I think Miss J wouldnt have been left with 
enough to cover her living costs and committed expenditure as well as making repayments 
to the Fluid account. I therefore agree that NewDay ought to have been aware that Miss J 
was not in a position to take on and manage this additional credit. It follows that I dont think 
NewDay should have granted Miss J the Fluid account. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
Rework Miss Js account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the Fluid account. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Miss J to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss J has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file from 9 
February 2016 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss J, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Miss Js 
credit file from 3 December 2020, when the Fluid account was first opened.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation in 
respect of the Fluid credit account only as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman