DRN-3904385
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurances (UKI) handling of a 
claim made under his commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made an escape of water claim under his commercial insurance policy. The claim was 
settled in terms of the damage to the property, but there was a dispute about the loss of 
rental income. 
The loss adjuster appointed by UKI made Mr P an offer for £4,744.17 but later said this 
wasnt right. UKI said this offer exceeded the sum insured set out in the schedule of 
insurance for loss of rent. The correct settlement figure was £3,700, which was the sum 
insured for rental income increased by 100%. Mr P complained. UKI said while they 
understood his unhappiness about being given the wrong information, he hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged because his claim had been settled in line with the policy terms. 
UKI also paid Mr P £200 compensation.
Mr P referred his complaint to this Service. He remained of the view as the loss adjuster had 
full financial authority to act on UKIs behalf, it should honour the original offer. Mr Ps 
concerns were considered by one of our investigators who said UKI hadnt acted unfairly. As 
Mr P didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute Mr P was given the wrong information by the loss adjuster. And he 
considers the higher amount should be paid to him. Ive started by considering what Mr P is 
entitled to under the policy, and Ive included the relevant wording which was shared by UKI 
in its final response below:
Automatic Rent Review
Where the Rent Receivable is subject to a rent review during the Period of Insurance 
the relevant Sum Insured will be automatically increased to reflect the revised Rent 
Receivable earned up to a maximum increase of 100% of the Loss of Rent Sum 
Insured stated on the Schedule
My role here is to reach a decision I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And in deciding this I need to bear in mind not only the policy terms, but this 
Services general view on how things should be put right if someone has been given the 
wrong information. Our general view is if a customer has been given the wrong information, 
they should be put back in the position as if they had been given the correct information in 
the first instance, not as if the wrong information was true. 
Mr P is asking to be put in the position as if the wrong information was true. Hes said this on 
the basis the loss adjuster was acting with the full financial authority of UKI. But I dont think 
thats fair because essentially what Mr P is asking for is more than hes entitled to under his 
policy. Ultimately, it was for UKI to decide if it was going to settle the claim outside of the 
policy terms.
The sum insured on the policy schedule stated the sum insured for lost rental income was 
£1,850. UKI has offered £3,700 which is an increase of 100% on this sum insured. As the 
claim for lost rental income has been settled in line with the policy terms, Mr P has not lost 
anything he was entitled to. Im satisfied his claim has been settled in line with the policy 
terms and Im not going to require UKI to increase the loss of rent payment.
However, I acknowledge there was a loss of expectation based on the wrong information 
provided by the loss adjuster. I can understand Mr Ps frustration  he should have been 
able to rely on the information given to him. It was a mistake the wrong information was 
provided. Im satisfied a fair way to reflect the impact this had on Mr P was to make a 
compensation payment for the loss of expectation. Im satisfied £200 is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman