DRN-3423992
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC kept giving him incorrect information about the 
dates when an early repayment charge (ERC) would apply to his mortgage and it has 
prevented him making an overpayment of 10% of the mortgage balance.
What happened
In 2018, Mr G took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage had an ERC that 
applied if the mortgage was repaid on or before 30 July 2021. The terms of the mortgage 
allowed Mr G to make a capital reduction of 10% of the balance each year.
In 2019, Barclays sent Mr G an annual mortgage statement, which said (incorrectly) that the 
ERC would cease to apply on 31 July 2023. When Mr G complained, Barclays confirmed 
that the date on the statement was wrong and paid Mr G £250 for the inconvenience 
caused.
In 2020, Barclays sent Mr G paperwork, including an annual mortgage statement, which 
again incorrectly stated that the ERC will cease to apply on 31 July 2023.
Mr G complains that Barclays has given him incorrect information about the ERC. And 
despite acknowledging the error it made in 2019, it went on to repeat that mistake after 
that. Mr G said that Barclays has failed to communicate with him in a reasonable way. He 
also said that he was prevented from making the overpayments as he was entitled to in 
2021. Mr G repaid the mortgage in 2021.
I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were (and which form part of this 
decision):
ERC
This complaint is about events after Barclays final response of 21 January 2020. Mr G has 
accepted the offer of £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience that matter caused him 
 but for the avoidance of doubt I consider that is a fair offer. I am looking at events after 
that.
I can see that Barclays issued paperwork that stated that an ERC would apply until an 
incorrect date after it had told Mr G that it had resolved that issue. I can understand Mr 
Gs frustration that Barclays had not resolved the problem as he was led to believe. That 
would have caused him some distress.
On the other hand, he knew that Barclays had already accepted in writing what the 
correct date was. I consider this makes a difference  it is less likely that Barclays were 
going to hold Mr G to the incorrect date. It was simply a repeat of the earlier 
administrative error, which it had already accepted. In saying that, I know that it will have 
caused Mr G some worry that Barclays could make the same mistake again and in not 
confirming that it had made a mistake over a period of over a year along with the stress of 
sorting it out. Mr G has told us that dealing with this matter has made him miserable.
Mr G has also been caused additional inconvenience because of Barclays error. He 
spent time trying to sort this matter out and Barclays made that difficult and meant that 
he had to spend more time on attempting to get Barclays to resolve its error.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr G has told us. I accept the difficulty he experienced in 
attempting to get Barclays put right its mistake. After looking at what happened and carefully 
considering what Mr G has told us about the impact of this matter on him, I consider it would 
be fair for Barclays to pay him £350 to reflect that.
Overpayment
Mr G has told us that he attempted unsuccessfully to make the 10% overpayment he was 
entitled to in 2021. Barclays has agreed to refund the interest Mr G paid because he was 
unable to make the overpayment. It has also offered £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience that m bearing in mind that the loss was around £200.
I proposed that Barclays should pay Mr G:
£238.32  the additional interest he had to pay because he was unable to make 
an overpayment.
£500  for the distress and inconvenience caused by giving Mr G incorrect information 
about the date the ERC would apply to and in arranging to make the overpayment. 
That is in addition to £250, which I understand has already been paid in relation to the 
errors before January 2020.
Barclays accepted my provisional findings. Mr G did not. He made a number of points, 
including:
He complained about the discrepancy on the mortgage on 15 November 2019. Barclays 
responded on 21 January 2020. The matter lasted just over 66 days and he received 
£250 compensation, without any third parties getting involved.
Barclays made the same mistake in the March 2020 mortgage statement. It should have 
apologised and put it right. But there was no response to his repeated emails and phone 
calls were not properly dealt with.
As the ERC expiry date was approaching, he contacted the bank again, without any 
success. He also visited a branch. This caused Mr G distress, inconvenience, pain and 
suffering.
When we were involved Barclays ignored our letters and did not respond on time. There 
is evidence of a culture of avoidance in Barclays business practices.
Being given incorrect information about the ERC was the least of his worries. Had things 
been sorted out when he first referred his complaint to us, then my proposed 
compensation would have been right. 
He referred to information on our website about the level of compensation we award  
and felt that an award of over £750 up to £1,500 reflected the distress, upset, worry or 
humiliation he had been caused.
Declining phone calls, not replying to his complaints and refusal to put right incorrect 
documentation are dishonesty by omission. Even until the last days before the ERC 
expired Barclays didnt correct the ERC date. Barclays practised this deliberately as a 
defeat mechanism.Barclays has a duty of care to its customers and should be transparent in its dealings. If 
the negligence of the bank has caused emotional distress then he is entitled to claim 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays hasnt treated Mr G fairly or reasonably. I cant punish 
Barclays for its mistakes or tell it to change the way it acts. I can only tell it to put things right. 
It has already offered to compensate Mr G for any financial loss. I am also able to tell 
Barclays to compensate Mr G for any distress and inconvenience and/or pain and suffering. I 
agree that Barclays should compensate Mr G where he has suffered any of those things as 
a result of its mistakes. It is for me to determine what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still consider £500 is a fair 
amount to compensate Mr G for any distress and inconvenience.
Ive looked carefully at all of the evidence we have including what Mr G has told us. I dont 
consider that the evidence we have supports that Barclays acts and omissions caused Mr G 
pain or suffering. I accept that it will have caused upset and worry when it sent him incorrect 
information on the number of occasions it did  mitigated to some extent by the fact that it 
was the same mistake Barclays had made earlier and Mr G said he understood it to be a 
typographical error. I also accept it would have caused Mr G to lose trust in Barclays and 
worry that there might be other mistakes Barclays was making. He shouldnt have had to 
worry about that. That worry was ongoing until the mortgage was repaid- and was added to 
by him being unable to make the overpayment he was entitled to. So I consider that Barclays 
actions have caused Mr G distress  and in particular worry and anxiety. Barclays had plenty 
of opportunity to put that right but did not do so.
I also accept what Mr G has told us about the inconvenience he suffered  and the amount 
of time he spent trying to put things right. The issue with the incorrect ERC date was ongoing 
until Mr G repaid his mortgage. It is accepted that Mr G unsuccessfully attempted to sort this 
out with Barclays on many occasions  including visiting a branch. And he has had to pursue 
his complaint to his extent.
While Barclays might have offered £250 for its initial error  it doesnt follow that I would 
have made a similar award had I considered that complaint. I dont consider it is relevant to 
my determination here.
I think what Mr G has described to us is considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, 
the impact lasts over many weeks or months. Our website says in that scenario we would 
typically award between £300 and £750. And taking everything into account, I consider that 
£500 is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect any distress and inconvenience, bearing in 
mind all of the evidence and what Mr G has told us and in the individual circumstances of 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr G:
£238.32  the additional interest he had to pay because he was unable to make 
an overpayment.£500  for the distress and inconvenience caused by giving Mr G incorrect information 
about the date the ERC would apply to and in arranging to make the overpayment. 
That is in addition to £250, which I understand has already been paid in relation to the 
errors before January 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman