DRN-4349336
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
Mr Y is now represented by a solicitor, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr Y throughout.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
Mr Y is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In February 2021, unfortunately, Mr Y suffered a heart attack and he was signed-off from 
work. He returned to work in May 2021, on a phased basis, but in October 2021, he was 
signed-off again, suffering from stress and anxiety. So Mr Ys employer made a claim on the 
policy. He was diagnosed with prolonged adjustment disorder, due to work-related stress.
Unum assessed the claim, taking into account the available medical evidence. Ultimately, it 
didnt think that Mr Y had shown he met the policy definition of incapacity. Instead, it 
concluded that Mr Ys absence was caused by a reaction to workplace stressors. So it 
turned down Mr Ys claim.
Mr Y disagreed and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
available evidence and she felt it showed that the main cause of Mr Ys illness was 
workplace stress.  She considered that if Mr Ys workplace environment changed, he might 
be able to carry out his insured role for another employer. So she didnt think it had been 
unfair for Unum to find that Mr Y hadnt shown he met the policy definition of incapacity, or 
that it had been unreasonable for Unum to turn down his claim.
Mr Y disagreed and his solicitor provided us with a detailed response to the investigators 
assessment. Ive briefly summarised the main points:
Five treating doctors had stated that Mr Y was eligible for policy benefit and that hed 
been incapacitated by his illness. Some had concluded that Mr Ys incapacity was 
multi-factorial in cause  not simply caused by workplace issues;
It is Mr Ys psychiatric illness which prevents him from working, in combination with 
other elements to that illness. In Mr Ys case, he doesnt simply suffer from stress  
he has a diagnosed psychiatric condition of prolonged adjustment disorder;
Unums final response letter should be disregarded, as its reasoning was unclear. It 
either ignored the medical evidence or avoided critical analysis of it;
It wasnt reasonable for Unum to assume that illness-inducing stressors could be 
removed from Mr Ys occupation. Instead, Unum would need to establish that the 
stressors arose in an unreasonable or unlawful way, and that they would not exist 
elsewhere;
It was unreasonable for the investigator and Unum to assume that Mr Y would be 
able to carry out his own occupation elsewhere, in the absence of evidence which 
demonstrated that. It was safe to infer that the same situation would arise at any 
employer;
The investigator had referred to the fact that Mr Ys consultant psychiatrist hadnt 
suggested further review or treatment. But in October 2021, theyd recommended 
that Mr Y should undergo 30 sessions with a psychologist and to take medication;
Mr Y hasnt been absent from work because he dislikes the work environment  hes 
been absent because it makes him ill.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr Y, I dont think it was unfair for Unum 
to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr Y that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint  
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im  
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr Y needing to make a claim and I  
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him. Within this decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues and the key 
evidence.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,  
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I  
think Unum handled Mr Ys claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Ys  
employers contract with Unum. Mr Ys employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity  
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum  
to consider whether Mr Ys claim met the policy definition of incapacity, which Ive set out 
below:
Insured occupation cover
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that a  
member is suffering from an illness which prevents them from carrying out the material and  
substantial duties of their own occupation. And that the illness would prevent them from  
carrying out those material and substantial duties for any other employer or in any other workplace. 
The policy says that Unum will begin to pay incapacity benefit after the end of the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Mr Y needed to have been  
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim  
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ys responsibility to provide Unum with enough  
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to him being unable to carry out the 
duties of his own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between February and 
August 2021. 
Unum assessed the evidence Mr Y provided in support of his claim, including seeking the 
opinion of its clinical staff. While it sympathised with Mr Ys position, it concluded that he 
wasnt incapacitated in line with the policy terms. Instead, it felt the evidence showed that 
following Mr Ys heart attack, he had been fit to return to work within the deferred period. But 
it was workplace stressors that had led to Mr Ys subsequent absence in October 2021 and 
thereafter. It considered that Mr Y was suffering with a reaction to a number of upsetting 
personal stressors, which most likely didnt amount to a defined medical problem. So Ive 
next looked at the available medical and other evidence to assess whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
It's common ground that in February 2021, Mr Y suffered a heart attack and required 
surgery. He was understandably signed-off from work. Around three months later, in mid-
May 2021, Mr Y saw an occupational health advisor. Their report states:
In my clinical opinion, Mr Y is fit for work and fit to continue in his current role with 
recommendations for adjustments
The advisor recommended a series of workplace adjustments which could be made for Mr Y 
 including a phased return to work plan. The suggested plan spanned a four week period, 
aiming for Mr Y to return to full-time work and duties in weeks three-four. This suggests that 
the advisor felt Mr Y would be fit for the material and substantial duties of his own occupation 
some weeks before the end of the deferred period.
Mr Ys GP records show that in May 2021, he told the GP: Had an OH assessment with 
employer, suggested phased return to work. He feels well enough to return but says he was 
advised to start next week.
It seems Mr Y suffered an injury to his leg in June 2021, which meant he had to wear a 
specialist boot for a few months. However, I havent seen any persuasive medical evidence 
which shows that this injury would have resulted in Mr Y being incapacitated for the full 
deferred period and beyond.
Mr Ys GP records show that on 8 October 2021, he had a telephone consultation with a 
doctor. Ive set out the relevant notes below:
Previous heart attackHas stress full (sic) job. Feels he is fit and healthy. Had stressful 
year last yearIn feb took a break had 3 months of (sic) workIs full time now since 6 
weeksIn the time he was not working fulltime his work was taken over by others. He is 
almost sure they are going to make him redundent (sic). Has a meeting next week. Has 
been feeling his chest hursting (sic) when on a tel call yesterdayNever gets chest pain 
when on crosstrainer, biking, weight lifting. No (sic) in normal life, just happened 2 times 
when talking about work or redundency. (sic)Stress does not sound cardial (sic).I will do (a sicknote) for him this time, as he really 
wants to show his work.
The GP issued a fit note which showed that Mr Y was off because of stress due to work.
Subsequently, Mr Y was referred to a consultant psychiatrist for assessment, which took 
place on 21 October 2021  over two months after the deferred period ended. The 
psychiatrists key findings were as follows:
(Mr Y) described having ongoing problems with anxiety and low mood which he was clear 
were as consequence of work-stress and resultant burnout. He described having chest pain 
that he had been advised was not cardiac in originHe was off work at the time of my 
assessment having found it difficult to manage his levels of irritability and lack of motivation 
at work.
(Mr Y) was able to provide a detailed chronological account of the work related capacity 
pressures that he has been under since a change in senior managementHe described a 
working environment of lack of adequate support, disruptive organizational changes and no 
response to his persistent documented requests for additional resources for him to manage 
the excessive workload. He had to have 3 months off and then had a 2-month phased return 
to work.
He noticed that when back to full time he was short with colleagues, raised his voice and 
argued a lot with colleagues. His chest pain was initially thought to be angina but is now 
considered to be stress related. His situation is further compounded by the fact that some of 
the work he used to do has been assigned to other colleagues and there is the worry that his 
role might be at risk
(Mr Y) was very clear in his narration about the link between his work related stress and the 
ensuing physical health issues he experienced and mental health issues he is experiencing.
The consultant psychiatrist concluded:
Given the history and presentation I have formed the view that Mr Ys presentation is 
consistent with a diagnosis of Prolonged Adjustment Disorder due to work-related stress and 
is now showing symptoms suggestive of burnout.
They recommended that Mr Y undergo cognitive behavioural therapy. I understand that Mr Y 
had 30 sessions between November 2021 and July 2022.
In November 2021, Mr Y saw a consultant cardiologist. Ive set out below what I consider to 
be their key findings:
(Mr Y) was treatedunder our care as an emergency and underwent coronary angiography 
and primary angioplasty with complex coronary stenting with a good result. With the help of 
medical therapy and the above procedure his cardiac function is reasonable although he has 
scar on cardiac MRI scanning and will need medications long term
Over the ensuing few months he has continued to be placed under intensive work pressure 
and as a result has been prone to significant anxiety and stressHe frequently reports 
upper left sided chest pain which is unrelated to his heart as evidenced by negative exercise 
cardiac stress tests. These symptoms likely relate to this anxiety and the description of his 
symptoms would very much fit with this
His health however remains fragile and he has understandably been placed on sick leave and off work and I would fully support this decision. I am led to believe that his work 
circumstances continue to be challenging and there are a number of issues going on which 
are having a major psychological impact on this gentlemans day to day life and this is likely 
to also have physical consequences.
Mr Y provided further medical evidence to Unum from his treating specialists once the claim 
had been declined and a solicitor had been appointed. Unum explained why the evidence 
didnt change its position. Ill examine this evidence below.
In December 2022, Mr Ys consultant cardiologist said:
In (Mr Ys) case there were identifiable risk factors which needed to be addressed following 
the heart attack in February 2021as well as a work environment where he was exposed to 
considerable and undue stress and pressures relating to meeting deadlines, staff 
management and targets. It is very likely that all these factors played a key part in the 
development of Mr Ys condition and considerable adjustments in his work environment and 
role would be advisable
There is no doubt Mr Y sustained an initial serious and severe cardiological and physical 
insult which prevented from carrying out the duties of his occupation and position for 
approximately 6-8 weeks. The further setback in March relating to (an allergic reaction) have 
set him back physically a further 2 months. The anxiety and psychological effect of these 
events on his ability to carry out his duties and role at work are harder to quantify precisely 
but the intermittent ongoing symptoms and ongoing concerns regarding his health status will 
likely have an ongoing impact especially in a role associated with stress and high demands.
I am aware there have been trial periods of return to work which have proved difficult and 
problematic due to ongoing stresses and pressures of the Job and its associated duties and 
responsibilities despite some adjustments
I believe on the balance of probabilities, Mr Y has not been able to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his role intermittently between February 2021 and now due to his 
cardiac condition, some ongoing symptoms and further recent cardiac setback, it is very 
likely that work related stresses have been contributory.
On 22 December 2021, Mr Ys consultant psychologist issued a psychological assessment. 
Again, Ive set out what I think were the key findings:
I believe that Mr Y would likely meet the clinical cut off to have the diagnosis of prolonged 
adjustment disorderI believe it worth the reader noting that Mr Y appeared to improve, but 
then when he returned to part time duties as part of a phased return, being reintroduced to 
that environment and pressure caused him to have significant stress that brought on more 
chest pain, this in turn impaired his functioning and he relapsed.
Since that point other events could explain the maintenance of his condition during this 
period such as the ongoing financial difficulties and continuous hospital appointments to 
investigate and treat multiple physical symptoms he is suffering from. Regardless of 
diagnostic label Mr Y has an illness that prevents him from working.
The relationship between stress and prolonged adjustment disorder and Mr Ys workplace is 
that he felt overwhelmed by the level of additional pressure that has been present in his role 
that continued for a prolonged period. This continued during his phased return. But now 
whilst he is off the element of work related stress that contributes to his condition is the 
aspect of returning to work and his financial difficulties after having exhausted sickness pay 
and being denied his work absence insurance cover.In my professional opinion the levels of stress caused by Mr Ys work not only had an impact 
on his physical health repeatedly deteriorating but meant that he was unable to function day 
to day including being incapacitated to the level that he was unable to complete his insured 
occupation. I believe that the diagnosis of prolonged adjustment disorder which can be 
traced back to events from February led to this incapacity and that there is little doubt that 
Mr Y has been so mentally unwell that he has been incapacitated.
In Jan 2023, a consultant physician provided their comments on Mr Ys condition and 
concluded:
I have seen Mr Y on a number of occasions dating back nearly 4 years. I believe on the 
balance of probability that Mr Y has not been able to perform the material and substantial 
duties of his job mainly because of the cardiac pathology.
And also in 2023, Mr Ys consultant psychiatrist provided a further report. They stated:
(Mr Y) has a psychiatric diagnosis of Prolonged Adjustment Disorder precipitated by work 
related stress. He continues to have symptoms such as trouble sleeping, feeling 
overwhelmed, difficulties functioning in daily activities, withdrawing from social supports and 
difficulty concentrating.
The causes are multi-factorial. He suffered a heart attack in February 2021 and continues to 
have understandable anxiety about a recurrence which makes him very sensitive to chest 
pains and any stressful situations. He also has physical health problems Overall, the 
combined impact of his mental and physical health problems increase his risk of suffering 
from major depression.
Often, if not usually. Adjustment Disorders last no longer that 6 months after the end of the 
stressful event. Sometimes they last longer. In Mr Ys case as the stressor is his work 
situation, his symptoms have not resolved. Indeed, as is well established that persistence of 
the stressor results in a recurrence of the emotional struggles associated with disorder. In 
my view this explains what Mr Y has been experiencing since October 2021.
In my view on the balance of probabilities it is unlikely that any reasonable adjustments 
undertaken by (employer) will result in Mr Y being able to perform the "material and 
substantial duties' of his role. He has been affected by his experience in the workplace and 
remains highly anxious about the risk of having another heart attack, his concentration is not 
good enough to deal with tasks he would normally be expected to do. He has felt 
unsupported by his employer. He has experienced difficulties in his work relationships that 
have reduced his levels of trust and confidence in their willingness or ability to support him 
hence increasing his levels of stress.
I believe on the balance of probabilities Mr Y has not been able to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his role since 08/10/21 to date having been incapacitated by a 
Prolonged Adjustment Disorder.
Mr Ys GP too felt that a combination of conditions had prevented Mr Y from carrying out the 
material and substantial duties of his role between February 2021 and 13 July 2023.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts and parties to decide 
what evidence I find most persuasive. Im mindful that medical experts who have been 
involved in Mr Ys care during the relevant time have indicated that they believe him to have 
been incapacitated and that they have had reference to his job role. However, whats also clear is that during the deferred period (between February and August 
2021), Mr Y had recovered sufficiently from the heart attack to return to work in May 2021. 
The evidence shows that the occupational health adviser and indeed, Mr Y himself, believed 
he was fit to return to work, at least on a phased basis. This was around halfway through the 
deferred period. And the GP notes suggest that before Mr Y was signed-off in October 2021, 
hed been back at work full time. So I dont find it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Y 
hadnt been incapacitated due to the heart attack or his cardiac recovery for the whole of the 
deferred period and afterwards. 
Im mindful too that each of the medical experts has made specific reference to the impact of 
Mr Ys employment on his health. The medical evidence indicates that Mr Ys cardiac 
recovery had been reasonable  although I accept he was understandably concerned that 
he might suffer another cardiac event. And while I understand Mr Y had a leg injury which 
required a boot and crutches, I havent seen persuasive medical evidence which indicates 
that he wouldve been incapacitated from carrying out a sedentary role.
The medical evidence is more suggestive that Mr Ys subsequent absence, beginning on 
8 October 2021, was largely caused by work-related stressors  including concern that he 
might be made redundant. This seems to have manifested in a number of ways, including 
non-cardiac chest pain and was ultimately found to be prolonged adjustment disorder. Each 
of the medical specialists involved in Mr Ys care has referred explicitly to the impact of work-
related stress on his health, even if only as a contributor. Therefore, I dont think it was unfair 
for Unum to conclude that work-related stress was the main cause of Mr Ys absence from 
8 October 2021 onwards. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to take the view 
that Mr Y might not face the same issues if he carried out the same role for a different 
employer. Its possible that he might have  but in my view, at least some of the work-related 
issues listed in the medical evidence appear to be specific to Mr Ys employer.
As Ive explained, I appreciate that medical experts have concluded that Mr Y is 
incapacitated from carrying out his insured role. However, as the investigator explained, an 
insurers role is to assess the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions as a whole. 
In the round, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to 
Unum when it assessed this claim, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the 
evidence showed that during the deferred period, Mr Y had sufficiently recovered from the 
heart attack to begin a phased return to work (and indeed, ultimately, to return to full-time 
hours). I dont think it unfairly found that Mr Ys leg injury wouldnt have prevented him from 
carrying out a sedentary role for a prolonged period. And on the available medical evidence, 
I dont think Unum acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Ys symptoms of prolonged 
adjustment disorder - which was diagnosed after the deferred period ended - were largely 
caused by an understandable reaction to a number of workplace stressors. Or that he wont 
be in a position to return to work until those workplace stressors have been resolved. On this 
basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Ys absence wasnt due to 
an incapacity in line with the policy definition.
Id like to reassure Mr Y that Im not suggesting that he was fit for work. I appreciate hes 
been medically signed-off. And I understand hes been through a very difficult time. But I 
need to decide whether I think hes provided Unum with enough medical evidence to show 
he met the policy definition of incapacity for the whole of the 26-week deferred period and 
afterwards. As Ive explained, I dont think he has. 
Its open to Mr Y to obtain new medical evidence in support of his claim, should he wish to 
do so. Mr Y would need to send any new medical evidence to Unum for it to consider and to 
decide whether or not it alters its understanding of his claim. If Mr Y is unhappy with the 
outcome of any reconsideration of new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint to us about that issue alone. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ys position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Unum to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman