DRN-2896231
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer the benefits he held in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Mr B says hes suffered a financial loss due to Portals advice. 
What happened
Mr B was an active member of his employers OPS. Hed been a member of the scheme for 
over 30 years. 
In 2016, Mr B spoke with Portal about transferring the benefits of his OPS.
Portal conducted a fact-finding exercise with Mr B in which they recorded;
He was 56 years old and co-habiting with a partner;
He was in good health;
He had an annual income of £23,800 and was employed full time; 
He owned his house but had an outstanding mortgage of £34,000 and a credit card 
balance of £2,500. Mr B had a disposable income of £600 per month.
 
Portal also assessed Mr Bs attitude to investment risk. They said he had a balanced attitude 
to risk. 
In February 2016 Portal produced a suitability report which recommended that Mr B transfer 
his OPS to a SIPP. In order to do so, Mr B had to opt out of his OPS scheme. Although 
Portal also recommended Mr B opt back into his employers current scheme. 
The suitability report recorded that;
Mr B had an objective of taking the maximum tax-free cash from his pension in order 
to go on holiday and pay off his debts. 
The OPS would provide Mr B benefits of £15,260 per year and an additional lump 
sum of £27,837 at age 66. He could also give up some of the annual income to take 
a lower income of £11,301 per year and a larger lump sum of £75,343.
The OPS had a CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) of £180,376 which Portal said 
took account of a pension sharing order Mr B needed to pay.
The critical yield to match the OPS benefits in a personal pension was 12.2%. The 
growth rate required to match the income by using a drawdown arrangement was 
5.7%.
Mr B didnt intend on taking an income from the pension and would likely continue 
working until age 67.
Following the payment of the tax-free lump sum, Portal recommended that Mr B 
invest in four different funds which they said matched his attitude to investment risk. 
Portals fees were set out as 5% of the transfer value (£9,018) and an on-going 
adviser fee of 1%. 
There was an annual fee of £75 for the SIPP administration and an annual 
management charge of 0.42%. Fund charges would also apply. 
In 2016 Portal also produced two transfer value analysis reports (TVAS). One in 
January 2016 and the other after Mr B had opted out of the OPS in August 2016. The TVAS 
recorded the critical yields and growth rates required to match the OPS benefits in various 
different scenarios. 
Mr B followed Portals recommendation and transferred the benefits of his OPS into a SIPP. 
He took the maximum tax-free cash and invested the remaining funds as Portal had 
recommended. 
Mr B later used the funds held in his SIPP to fund a business purchase.
In June 2020, Mr B complained to Portal via a professional representative. In his complaint 
he said that Portal shouldnt have advised him to transfer his OPS and as a result hes facing 
a significantly lower retirement income. He said Portal had breached the regulators rules by 
doing so. 
In their response Portal said their recommendation had been suitable as it had achieved 
Mr Bs objective of releasing tax free cash to pay off his debts and go on holiday. They said 
their suitability report had made clear the risks of transferring, the loss of guarantees and the 
fees involved in transferring Mr Bs OPS.
Mr B was unhappy with Portals response and so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said she didnt think it was in Mr Bs best interests to transfer his OPS to a SIPP. 
She said it was unlikely Mr B would achieve the critical yield required to improve on the 
benefits he already held in the OPS. She also said Mr B was repaying the debts he had 
without being caused any financial difficulties, so she didnt think it was in his best interests 
to lose the guarantees of the OPS to repay his mortgage and credit card. Our investigator 
acknowledged that, at the time of the advice, Mr B hadnt planned on buying a business with 
his pension funds. And, Portal couldnt have foreseen that.      
Portal disagreed with our investigators assessment. They said as a result of the advice Mr B 
could have paid off his debts and had more financial security entering retirement. They also 
felt the new plan had a significant chance of exceeding the growth rate which they felt was a 
fairer assessment than using the critical yield. They reiterated that they felt their advice met 
Mr Bs objectives at the time and was therefore suitable. 
As Portal disagreed with our investigators assessment, the case has been passed to me for 
a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Portals suitability report contained several figures in relation to the growth rate required in 
order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. Portal had a responsibility under the COBS 
Rules to consider Mr Bs attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that 
would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. With that in mind, I think 
the critical yield figures were the important ones in determining whether his pension might be 
worth more or less by transferring.
Portal however chose to focus on the growth rate (5.7%) rather than the critical yield. But 
Mr Bs existing scheme guaranteed him an income for life and provided a spouses benefit in 
the event of his death. I dont think the growth rate figure provided would have enabled Mr B 
to make a direct comparison with the benefits he was giving up. So, I think the critical yield is 
the figure that Portal ought to have given due weight to. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was 56 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 66. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Bs benefits at age 66 was 12.2% if he took a full pension and 10.8% if he took tax 
free cash and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 4.1% per year for 
9 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Portal dont think the discount 
rate were an accurate comparison to use. They instead used a historic returns rate. But as 
Portal will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be a more realistic indicator of 
expected fund growth in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns 
forward, particularly over such a long period of time. So, had returns been lower, I think its 
clear Mr Bs funds were at risk of running out sooner which was never explained to him.
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And the regulator has made clear that 
in recommending a transfer, the purpose isnt just for things to stand still. But here, given the 
lowest critical yield was 10.8%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, particularly when investing in line with 
his attitude to risk. 
If Portals recommendation was based on the transfers financial viability alone then a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of course, financial viability 
isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Portal has argued in this case. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Mr Bs objectivesMr B seemed to only have one objective when he approached Portal  to release tax free 
cash. And the reason for that objective was to pay off his mortgage, debts and go on holiday. 
Portals suitability report listed several other objectives, for example, maximising tax-free 
cash; having greater choice and flexibility of accessing the pension; and having ownership 
and control of his pension fund. However, having listened to Mr Bs conversation with 
Portals paraplanner its evident these were factors raised by the paraplanner. They werent 
specifically raised by Mr B as his objectives and I dont think they truly were objectives he 
had prior to being advised by Portal. 
I say that because, for example, in the suitability report Portal said You also said that having 
the flexibility to draw an income earlier or later than your planned retirement age would be a 
useful benefit and is important to you. But Portal recorded Mr Bs intended retirement age as 
67 (a year later than his DB schemes normal retirement age). In his conversation with Portal, 
Mr B had mentioned increasing his working week and made no mention of needing an 
income earlier than his scheme provided. So, I dont think this was genuinely an objective of 
Mr Bs.
I also think Portal included objectives which were generic in nature and not specific to Mr Bs 
circumstances. For example, the report suggested Mr B had an objective of maximising his 
tax-free cash and said sometimes with this type of scheme you will not be able to access 
the full tax-free cash amount. But the tax-free cash Mr B received by transferring was 
around £45,000. And Portal had estimated Mr B could receive a maximum of around 
£75,000 at normal retirement age in the DB scheme. So, Portal knew it was likely Mr B 
would receive less tax-free cash by transferring, but still recommended the transfer go ahead 
on the basis of meeting this objective.  
As I dont think the other objectives were genuinely motivating factors for Mr B seeking 
advice on his pension, Ive focused on Mr Bs objective of releasing tax-free cash and 
whether Portal have evidenced it was in his best interest to do so. 
Releasing tax free cash
During the call with Portals paraplanner, he asked what Mr B was likely to use the remaining 
tax-free cash for once hed paid off his debts to which Mr B said he wanted to go on holiday. 
So, I dont think Mr Bs objective of going on holiday was a significant motivating factor in the 
advice. It appeared to be more a thought about what he might spend the money on should 
he have it. So, Ive mainly focused on his objective of reducing his mortgage and debt. 
The information Ive seen doesnt suggest that Portal tested Mr Bs need to pay off his 
mortgage and debts. And there isnt anything in Portals suitability report which said why they 
thought paying off Mr Bs mortgage was the right thing to do, or even whether theyd 
considered if he could pay off his debt without facing significant penalties. And Mr B has 
since told our service that it didnt benefit him to pay off his mortgage early as there was an 
early settlement fee. So, he ended up letting the mortgage run its course
When Portal conducted a fact find with Mr B they recorded that he paid £350 a month 
towards his mortgage and £150 toward his credit card debt. But they also recorded that Mr B 
had £600 a month of disposable income. And in their call with Mr B he confirmed on average 
he had £200-£300 left at the end of each month. So, I dont think Mr B had a particular need 
to pay off his mortgage at that point. He wasnt struggling financially at the time and he even 
mentioned in his call to Portal that he was looking to take up additional work on his days off. 
So, it was likely his disposable income each month would increase further. Im sure that the idea of paying off his mortgage and releasing extra disposable income each 
month was an attractive idea to Mr B. But it was Portals role to not only record Mr Bs 
objectives but to probe and really understand Mr Bs motivations. It was only then that Portal 
would be able to understand if Mr Bs objective was not only achievable but realistic and in 
his best interests.  
Therefore I dont think Portal demonstrated it was in Mr Bs best interests to give up the 
valuable guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to achieve a benefit that may or may 
have not been achievable or financially viable.
Similarly, Mr Bs credit card debt was modest and affordable. But Portal never explored 
increasing Mr Bs payments towards his credit card debit, which could have meant it was 
paid off much earlier, releasing further disposable income for Mr B each month.
Summary
I dont doubt that the release of TFC through a personal pension would have sounded like an 
attractive idea to Mr B. Especially as that meant he could have paid off his mortgage and 
other debt. But Portal wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and so it wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme for that reason.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Portals 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portals advice. I say this because Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Bs retirement provision. So, if Portal had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
While Mr B later went on to buy a business with his pension funds. I think its likely he did 
this because Portal had facilitated access to his pension funds through this transfer. 
Therefore, I think its likely Mr B would have remained in his scheme until normal retirement 
age had he been given suitable advice.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. For clarity, Im satisfied Mr B wouldnt have taken benefits under the DB scheme, until the 
normal scheme retirement age. So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Portal to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal to 
pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal to pay 
Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Portal Financial Services LLP must pay the 
amount as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman