DRN-3896193
The complaint
Mrs O complains that the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined her claim for a damaged garden wall and then aggressively pursued her for 
an additional policy premium. Mr O has brought the complaint on behalf of his mother who is 
the policyholder and Ive referred to him throughout. References to NFU include its agents. 
What happened
In 2022 Mrs Os son made a claim to NFU about a wall in his mothers garden that was 
bowing, which he thought was caused from 2019 by a tree outside the boundary of her 
house. The tree is on a public highway and belongs to Mrs Os local council. Mr O pursued 
the local council about the tree but said that it told him to go through the insurance policy. 
NFU appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim. It said the loss adjuster found no 
evidence of movement or damage to the main dwelling. NFU declined Mrs Os claim saying 
that under the terms of his policy, it cant assist with:
DAMAGE: to walls, gates, fences, hedges, swimming pools, glasshouses, terraces, tennis 
hardcourts, drives or footpaths unless the HOME has been DAMAGED at the same time by 
the same cause.  
Mr O said NFU wanted an additional premium of £108 for her claim and pursued this very 
aggressively even after they complained. He said in its letter of July 2022 NFU threatened to 
cancel the policy unless it received immediate payment. Mr O said the only reference NFU 
made to this in its response was that the extra premium is no longer required. He said NFU 
should apologise and be required to pay compensation for the distress it had caused.
NFU told Mrs O that when a claim is raised it is standard procedure for a no claims discount 
to be reduced. As the loss date of the claim was January 2019, the affected no claims 
discount was backdated to the 2019 renewal which generated an extra premium. NFU said 
that as the claim has been declined and is now closed, its underwriters have agreed to 
reinstate Mrs Os no claims discount and waive the additional premium charge.
Mr O said this wasnt fair and complained to NFU. In its response to the complaint, NFU said 
it had considered and rejected the claim in line with the policy terms, and had applied and 
later cancelled the additional premium charge accordingly.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with NFUs response and referred the complaint to our service. He said 
everyone knows that customers dont read all the terms and conditions when they take out 
insurance. But they expect the things that should reasonably be covered, to be covered, and 
if not, this should be brought to their attention, not hidden in small print. He said that as NFU 
hadnt done so it should deal with the claim. Mr O said the policy isnt cheap and his mother 
had a right to expect it to include something as obvious as a tree damaging a garden wall.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the policy terms dont 
cover damage to garden walls unless the main home has also been damaged and so it was 
reasonable for NFU to decline the claim. She said the claim meant that Mrs Os no claims 
discount was removed, which increased her premium and the policy terms explain this will 
happen as is standard industry practice. She said that as the claim was rejected, Mrs Os no 
claims discount was reinstated in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr O disagreed. He said the investigator was biased towards NFU and hadnt looked at the 
complaint properly and hadnt understood the position concerning the extra premium NFU 
had demanded by means of inappropriate, threatening letters. Mr O requested that an 
ombudsman review his mothers complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that his mothers claim for damage to her garden wall should be covered by NFU 
under her policy. When the parties to a claim disagree about liability our role is to determine 
what we think is the fair and reasonable outcome. We do this with reference to the terms and 
conditions of the policy and any available expert reports. 
The policy states that for damage to a wall to be covered there must also be damage to the 
main dwelling at the same time by the same cause. This is a standard restriction on claims 
for damage to the land or outbuildings outside of the main dwelling and appears to me to be 
quite clearly set out within the policy. Insurers are entitled to restrict their liability in these 
circumstances, and it is common that they do so. Policyholders are expected to read the 
terms of their cover and may reject it if it doesnt meet their needs.
The technical report from NFUs loss adjuster states that the damage is to the boundary wall, 
but there is no movement noted to the foundation of the main dwelling. NFU says this was 
communicated by the surveyor to the policyholder during the surveyors visit and 
subsequently by letter. Im satisfied from what Ive seen of the available information, the 
damage is localised to the boundary wall. Im pleased the subsidence hasnt affected Mrs 
Os home, but this doesnt assist her claim as it is clearly outside of the policy term above. 
 
When Mrs O took out the insurance policy NFU gave her a no claims discount. The policy 
booklet explains that this discount is removed when the policyholder makes a claim. As the 
policy wasnt due to renew until February 2023 when the period of cover ended, NFU 
correctly asked for payment to cover the discount Mrs O had received from renewal in 2019. 
It did so by phone and letter.
Once NFU decided Mrs Os claim wasnt covered by the policy, the no claims discount was 
reinstated. Claims impact on no claims discounts, and the reinstatement of the discount 
correctly followed the decline of Mrs Os claim. Had the additional premium been paid by Mrs 
O it would then have been refunded. NFU acted as we would expect an insurer to do in the 
circumstances where a no claims discount needs to be backdated. 
As this approach to the no claims discount is common to insurers and explained in the policy 
booklet, I think it was fair and reasonable of NFU to have applied it to Mrs Os premiums. I 
have looked at NFUs letters about the premium, from July and September 2022, and 
disagree with Mr O that they are aggressive. The letters state that the contract of insurance 
is dependent on the payment of the premium. As such, they appear to me to be normal 
business letters requesting payment in accordance with the terms of the policy.
I have seen that NFU has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in declining Mrs 
Os claim as there is no cover under the subsidence peril and no cover for accidental 
damage. I think NFU has treated Mrs O fairly in its claim decision and in charging and then removing the charge in respect of her no claims discount. I hope Mr O has more success in 
liaising with his mothers local council about the damage to her wall. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman