DRN-1686623
The complaint
Miss O complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc wont refund three disputed transactions made 
from her account. And shed like them refunded. 
What happened
Miss O disputes three online transfers made from her HSBC account between the 
12 September 2019 and the 14 September 2019, totalling £5,650. Shortly prior to the second 
and third disputed transactions Miss O received funds into her account of identical value. On 
the 13 September 2019 Miss O received a credit of £2,200. And within two hours of this 
payment crediting her account an outbound disputed online transfer of the same value was 
made to a third party account. On the 14 September 2019 Miss O received three payments 
totalling £2,550, sent from her account with a third party e-money provider, Ill call P. And 
within 15 minutes of receiving these payments a disputed online banking transfer of the 
same value was made to a third party account.
Miss O complained to HSBC that she hadnt authorised the disputed transactions. 
Miss O explained that on the 13 September 2019 she asked her cousin to lend her £2,200 
for university fees  and this was transferred into her account. However soon after receiving 
the money her cousin asked for this to be repaid. To help Miss O return the money, she 
asked her brother in law to send her £2,550. This was sent to her account with P. On 
receiving the money Miss O proceeded to transfer the funds into her HSBC account. But, 
she explained soon after moving the money into her HSBC account she saw someone 
remove £2,550. And realised that her account had been accessed by a fraudster. 
 
HSBC investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. They said there was 
no evidence of fraudulent activity. They thought that Miss O had most likely authorised the 
disputed transactions because:
The payments were processed via Miss Os mobile application. 
They were carried out via Miss Os mobile device. 
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Miss Os Secure Key, PIN and personal security questions.
Miss O didnt accept HSBCs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Os complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded 
that Miss O most likely authorised the transactions. In summary they said:
A fraudster would need access to Miss Os mobile phone, secure key and password 
to carry out the transactions. 
Miss O has explained that her phone was password protected and under her 
supervision at all times. 
Miss O didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said that the situation has negatively 
impacted on her mental health and its not fair for her to lose all of her money because of 
hackers. 
As Miss O didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Miss O liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Os genuine online banking details 
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold her liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss O consented to 
the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Miss O 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
HSBC havent been able to confirm if the disputed transactions were made to new 
payees. But Ive seen evidence that the disputed transactions were authorised via 
Miss Os mobile device using her mobile application. They were also carried out near 
where Miss O was staying at the time. Miss O explained that her mobile phone was 
under her supervision at all times. I therefore find it difficult to understand how a 
fraudster could have gained access to her phone without her knowledge. 
Even if I accept that a fraudster gained access to Miss Os phone, theyd need her 
phone password plus her secure key and password to access her mobile application. 
And Ive not seen a plausible explanation for how a fraudster knew this information. 
Two of the three disputed transactions occurred within a very short time of identical 
amounts crediting Miss Os account. The second disputed transaction within two 
hours of Miss Os account being credited, and the third disputed transaction within 15 
minutes. This indicates that a fraudster likely knew Miss O was due to receive the 
funds. However, theres no plausible explanation for how this could be the case. 
After the disputed transactions, but prior to raising them as fraud, Miss O phoned 
HSBC to query why a large credit she was expecting hadnt credited her account. 
This indicates Miss O was checking her account regularly. So I find it surprising that 
she didnt raise the disputed transactions when she first contacted HSBC earlier that 
day. 
Miss O has suggested that her account was hacked into by fraudsters. Ive considered this 
possibility; however Miss Os not provided any evidence to support this theory  therefore on 
balance Im unable to conclude its likely this occurred.   
Taking everything into account, I find that its more likely than not Miss O authorised the 
disputed transactions. It follows that HSBC is entitled to hold her liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman