DRN-3706876
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr W received a message from Barclays advising him of a suspicious transaction. He called 
them and was told a large payment (£2,999.90) had been made from his account a few 
minutes earlier which Mr W denied was him. Barclays advised Mr W that the payment was 
pending but couldnt be stopped. It was further explained that Mr W had to wait for either 
the payment to be claimed by the merchant or for it to be unclaimed and drop off the 
system in which case it would return to Mr Ws account.
Barclays told Mr W that if it was claimed by the merchant, then he could raise a fraud claim 
and it would be investigated. The payment was in a pending state for some time and Mr W 
kept in touch with Barclays about it. Barclays later sent him a letter about it, asking whether 
he wished to raise a fraud claim. Mr W explained that he never followed up on this because 
hed been told he didnt need to by a Barclays employee.
It was noted by Barclays that when the payment was authorised, Mr Ws account had 
recently received a large payment into it and the outgoing disputed transaction was within 
the limits of Mr Ws account, but once the payment was claimed by the merchant, this 
caused Mr Ws account to be overdrawn.
Barclays believed Mr W had authorised the payment and declined to refund him. Mr W then 
made a complaint to them which Barclays investigated. Barclays thought that Mr Ws version 
of events was inconsistent, and their evidence showed it was Mr W whod authorised the 
transaction. They didnt change their position regarding the disputed transaction but 
accepted that theyd given Mr W conflicting information about his claim and credited his 
account with £50.
Mr W was unhappy with how Barclays had dealt with his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
senior investigators who asked Mr W and Barclays for information about the complaint. Mr W 
explained what had happened but couldnt be sure if hed had any unusual calls prior to the 
payment leaving his account. He maintained that he hadnt made the transaction and was 
critical of Barclays approach to his claim.
Barclays provided details about the payment and the steps involved in the process. They 
presented evidence that Mr W had logged on to his mobile banking app just before the 
disputed transaction and then used it to confirm the payment. Evidence was provided that 
showed the device used was registered to Mr W and was the one he usually used to 
undertake mobile banking from his usual IP address. 
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
After considering the information, Mr Ws complaint wasnt upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
outcome and said:
He believed that because Barclays gave him misleading advice, this prevented him 
from stopping the payment. 
He was adamant that he knew nothing about it when Barclays contacted him at the 
time of the transaction.
He believed the £50 payment was an admission of guilt by Barclays. 
He explained that hed had several incidents of fraud and that recent coverage 
concerning data breaches was similar to his experience.
Mr W wanted a further review of his complaint by an Ombudsman, which has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint revolves around a large payment that left his account, paid for using his 
debit card. Mr W denies making the payment whilst Barclays believe he was responsible. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr W liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr W authorised 
the transaction, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card/ banking app and online 
payment details conclusively proves that the payment was authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ws account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr W. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr W responsible for the disputed 
transaction or not.
Barclays provided technical evidence concerning the payment. This showed that Mr Ws 
debit card was used to make a payment using the internet. During the authorisation process, 
an additional security step was required to verify the payment. In this case, Mr Ws banking 
app was used to confirm the payment was genuine. These additional steps are designed to 
provide the account user with extra security in the case of an unauthorised transaction. 
What that means here is that Mr Ws phone, using the banking app was opened and 
additional steps were completed before the payment was authorised. Its difficult to see how 
anyone else unknown to Mr W could have done that. I say that because the records show it was Mr Ws genuine phone, using his mobile banking app which required private security 
information to open.
This payment took place around midnight, so I dont think it was likely that Mr Ws phone 
was taken without his knowledge. Mr W spoke with Barclays soon after the payment left his 
account and there was no mention of anyone else who may have been with him at the time.
I also looked at the account at the time of the payment and a large incoming payment that 
had been received a few days before the disputed transaction was made. At that time, the 
payment would have left nearly £1,000 in the account. If the payment was somehow made 
by an unauthorised third party, Im not sure why they would then leave such a large amount 
in the account when the main purpose for such activity is to steal as much as possible  but 
that didnt happen here.
Ive thought about the comments made by Mr W regarding other fraud and breaches and 
whether they could be responsible for his loss. Barclays data shows it was Mr Ws device 
that was used to confirm the payment whilst using it at his usual location (presumably his 
home). Theres no evidence that other devices were present or registered on his account, 
nor are there any indications that his Barclays account was hacked. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr W was the victim of a scam, but theres no evidence that 
Mr W was manipulated into giving either his logon details and access to his devices to 
anyone else or persuaded to make the payment for some reason by a scammer. I dont think 
Mr W was scammed here.
Mr W also believed that the misleading information he was given at the time hindered him 
from stopping the payment. Unfortunately thats not the case as once a debit card payment 
has been authorised (following the procedure outlined above), it cant be stopped until its 
either claimed by the merchant (as it was here) or they fail to claim it. So, whilst I accept that 
Barclays gave a confusing picture to Mr W, I dont think it would have had any significant 
impact on the outcome, only delayed it.
Barclays acceptance of the misleading customer service was an admission that they let Mr 
W down about this aspect of their dealings with him. I dont think its reasonable to say this 
was an acceptance that theyd made an error about the disputed transaction as well. The 
two things are quite different, and Barclays are required to address the different aspects of  
Mr Ws complaint. Their payment here was, I think, a reasonable way to recognise this.
So, taking everything into account, I think it more likely than not that Mr W was responsible 
for making this payment and it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman