DRN-3786875
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly declined a claim against their 
home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to AWP include their agents. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B reported a claim to AWP in 2022 against their home emergency policy. They 
say a partial electrical failure resulted in a lack of power to their boiler. And this left them 
without heating or hot water. 
AWP considered the claim but declined it. They say the cause of Mrs B and Mr Bs lack of 
heating and hot water was the result of a partial electrical failure  which is specifically 
excluded under the policy. 
Mrs B and Mr B werent happy. They say although the cause of having no heating or hot 
water was due to a partial electrical failure, this resulted in a home emergency. They also 
say AWP applied the policy exclusion unfairly when declining the claim. So, they 
complained. 
AWP responded to it maintaining their position that the lack of heating and hot water was the 
consequence of something specifically excluded by the policy. As Mrs B and Mr B remained 
unhappy, they approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think the heating system 
completely failed or broke down. Rather, no electricity supply was reaching the boiler as the 
result of a partial electrical failure which the policy excluded. 
Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree. They say they paid an electrician to repair the fault  restoring 
their heating and hot water  and think AWP should cover these costs. As they didnt agree 
with our investigators view, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr B had no heating or hot water as the result of the electricity supply not 
reaching the boiler. All parties accept this was due to a partial electrical failure  something 
the policy in my view clearly excludes.
Mrs B and Mr B, however, argued the partial electrical failure led to a home emergency  
they were without heating or hot water. I understand their point and say this because the 
policy defines an emergency as: 
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will: 
 
Result in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water. 
I think its fair to say the power supply failing to reach the boiler meant their home lost its 
main source of heating. 
That said, Ive gone on to consider the primary heating section of the policy  the section 
Mrs B and Mr B consider the policy should have responded to the claim under. This says 
cover is included in the event of a complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/ or 
hot water supply provided by the primary heating system. 
Importantly here though, the primary heating system  in my view  didnt completely fail or 
breakdown. Thats what needs to happen for this section of the policy to respond to a claim. 
What happened here was the boiler wasnt getting any power because of a partial failure of 
the internal electrical supply  which isnt covered. 
Mrs B and Mr B say they resolved the issues privately after hiring an electrician to find the 
fault and carry out repairs. This suggests the works required to put things right included 
restoring the power supply back to the boiler for the heating and hot water to operate. As 
such, if I were to require AWP to pay the claim (reimburse Mrs B and Mr Bs costs they paid 
to hire an electrician) this would fall under the Electricity supply section of the policy  as that 
was the cause of what happened here. 
But, as above, this section of the policy specifically excludes a partial failure of the internal 
electricity supply or where only an intermittent fault exists. 
So, although I understand why Mrs B and Mr B think AWP treated them unfairly, I dont find 
they have been. Im satisfied AWP applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably when 
declining the claim. So, I wont be requiring them to do anything here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and Mr B. But my decision 
ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with AWP  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman