DRN-3153487
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about a recommendation from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) in 2000 to 
take out a Maximum Investment Plan (MIP). She is represented by a claims management 
company (CMC). 
It says that Mrs Y was only looking to save and didnt need or want the life cover included in 
the plan. The CMC also complains that Zurich didnt record Mrs Ys attitude to risk. It says 
the plan charges made it a pointless way of saving because the reduction in yield produced 
a growth rate of under four percent when Bank of England base rate at that time was six 
percent.
What happened
Mrs Y and her husband met with a Zurich adviser in 2000. The adviser recommended that 
she take out a ten-year Maximum Investment Plan with a monthly contribution of £150. 
Mrs Y took out the plan in 2000 and maintained it until 2009. 
In 2020 the CMC complained to Zurich on Mrs Ys behalf. 
Zurich didnt uphold Mrs Ys complaint. It said the main purpose of the MIP was to provide 
regular savings over a ten-year period. Zurich said Mrs Y had maintained the plan until May 
2009 when she had surrendered it in full. It said it was satisfied the recommendation was 
reasonable given Mrs Ys circumstances and objective.  
Zurich explained that the MIP had to include life cover so that it would meet tax qualifying 
rules which meant the proceeds could then be paid out without further liability to tax. 
However, it noted that the minimum amount of life cover was selected, Mrs Y had no other 
life cover in place, and she had a young family. 
Zurich accepted Mrs Ys attitude to risk wasnt formally noted on the fact find but it said that 
didnt mean the plan and the fund selected was unsuitable. It said it was clearly noted on the 
recommendation letter that Mrs Y had confirmed she was comfortable with the risks 
associated with the plan. Zurich also said the risks associated with the plan were explained 
within the documentation provided and it said Mrs Y didnt raise any concerns when she 
surrendered her plan.  
Zurich said there were numerous options for saving in the marketplace at the time and it was 
Mrs Ys decision to go ahead with the MIP. It said at the time Mrs Y started her MIP, it was 
the regular savings product offered by the company and Zurich considered it was a 
reasonable recommendation. Zurich also said the charges that applied, and the risks 
associated were fully explained within the point of sale documentation and it felt that Mrs Y 
was able to make an informed decision to go ahead.
Overall, it considered the MIP was suitable for Mrs Y taking into account her objective and 
financial circumstances at the time and it said it had seen no evidence to suggest she was 
misled in any way.
The CMC referred Mrs Ys complaint to our service. Our investigator considered her 
complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Ys circumstances and objectives as recorded in the fact 
find and the recommendations letter. She noted that Zurich hadnt recorded Mrs Ys attitude 
to risk. 
The investigator took into account that Mrs Y was relatively young at the time with two 
dependent children under three years of age. She took the view, on balance, that Mrs Y 
wanted to take a cautious approach as she wanted to invest for capital growth for her 
childrens future.  So, the investigator considered Mrs Y wanted to take a lower level of risk 
than the risk associated with the MIP. 
The investigator considered the asset breakdown of the fund the MIP was invested in 
including the proportions of different asset classes. The investigator noted the fund was 
heavily invested in equities. So, she thought it posed more risk than Mrs Y wished to take.  
The investigator concluded that Mrs Y was willing to invest her money and would have been 
comfortable with exposing her capital to some level of risk but that the MIP was unsuitable 
as it posed more risk than Mrs Y was willing to take. 
The investigator asked Zurich to calculate compensation based on a comparison between 
the performance of the MIP and a benchmark made up of an equal combination of the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and the average rate from fixed rate bonds, 
over the same term.   
Zurich didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and said it felt she had applied current 
standards to consider the sale which it pointed out was made over twenty years ago. 
It said the MIP provided Mrs Y with a disciplined means of saving over the longer term. 
Zurich also said that investing in funds with holdings in equities and bonds was generally 
considered at that time to be a better way of keeping pace with inflation over the medium to 
long term. It said the philosophy of the Managed Fund was to maintain a spread of 
investments both by asset type (equities, property, bonds, and deposits) and by economy to 
produce real growth over the longer term. Zurich also said the Managed Fund had 
consistently produced good average annual growth. 
Zurich said it didnt agree that Mrs Y was a cautious investor. It pointed out that she owned 
an investment property and jointly owned what it described as another substantial 
property with her husband.
Zurich noted the fact find appeared to show Mrs Y was employed by her husband and the 
MIP contributions were clearly affordable as she had paid into the policy for nine years.
As no agreement could be reached Mrs Ys complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y and her husband met with an adviser in 2000. A fact find was completed which 
recorded their circumstances. Mrs Y was employed and was also receiving some additional 
income from a rental property. She and her husband owned their own home. They also had 
some savings. Mrs Y and her husband had no mortgage, but they still had other liabilities and they also had young children. 
It was recorded that one of Mrs Ys financial priorities was regular saving and that this was a   
priority that she was interested in at that time rather than something she was intending to 
consider in the future. The recommendations letter recorded that Mrs Y wanted a savings 
plan for herself and her child who was a few months old. 
I am satisfied Mrs Y wanted to save for the future, was employed and had some disposable 
income. So, I dont consider a savings plan was unsuitable in principle. However, I have to 
consider whether this plan was suitable for Mrs Y taking into account her circumstances and 
objectives. 
Attitude to risk
The CMC representing Mrs Y points out that her attitude to risk was not recorded by Zurich. 
It doesnt automatically follow that because it wasnt recorded the recommendation was 
unsuitable. However, I have to consider Mrs Ys recorded circumstances and objectives at 
the time in order to determine what risk she was willing and able to take.  
Zurich says that Mrs Y had some investment experience as she had an investment property 
and it also points out that Mrs Y and her husband jointly owned, what it has described as, 
another substantial property. It doesnt agree that Mrs Y was a cautious investor and says 
she was prepared to take the level of risk posed by the plan invested in the managed fund 
with her monthly contributions over the medium to long term.
However, Im not persuaded that owning one investment property equates to having 
experience in investing in stock markets or related products.  In addition, I note that whilst 
the value of the other property, jointly owned by Mrs Y and her husband, was significant, it 
was their residential property. 
I can also see that Mrs Y had taken out a similar plan with Zurich in 1998  and was paying  
£100 per month in contributions.  But as that plan had only been taken out a couple of years 
before and was some way off maturity, I am not persuaded that would have given Mrs Y a 
good understanding of how these products worked and in particular, of the risks involved 
with this plan.
I note Zurichs comments about what was recorded on the recommendations letter regarding 
risk. It stated:
You are comfortable that the contributions to your plan will be invested in real assets such as 
equities and property on your behalf. This means that the value of the plan is determined by 
the value of those assets and can go down as well as up in value. You confirmed that you 
understand this. 
While I think Mrs Y may have understood that the plan posed some risk, I am not persuaded 
on balance that Mrs Y understood the level of risk posed by this plan.
Mrs Y was recommended a ten-year Maximum Investment Plan invested in the Balanced 
Managed Growth Fund with a monthly premium of £150 per month. 
The fund objective for the Balance Managed Growth Fund is set out in the fund fact sheet 
which states:The Balanced Managed Growth Fund aims to provide excellent prospects for long-term 
growth while limiting the risks associated with pure equity funds. It accordingly invests 
worldwide in income-generating assets to provide stability; and in the smaller companies 
sector for more aggressive growth potential. It has no exposure to property.
From the information provided it appears the fund was mainly made up of equities including 
international equities and a small proportion of fixed interest assets such as bonds and cash. 
International equities can pose additional risk because changes in foreign exchange rates 
can have a negative effect on the investment.
I appreciate the point Zurich makes that a mixture of equities and bonds was seen at that 
time as a good way of keeping pace with inflation. I also note what it says about the fund 
having consistently produced good average annual growth. But ultimately, I have to consider 
whether the risk posed was in line with Mrs Ys attitude to risk.  
Mrs Ys annual income at the time was about £15,600, so paying in £1,800 a year in 
contributions wasnt an insignificant sum for her to put at risk. In addition, she was 
committing to making these payments for ten years and she had a young family who were 
dependent on Mrs Y and her husband. 
I note Mrs Y made regular contributions and held the plan for nine years, surrendering it a 
year before the end of the term. Overall, I consider, given Mrs Ys circumstances at the time, 
that she was able to take a low level of risk with £150 per month over that term. And I 
consider she was prepared to take that level of risk in order to try to achieve her objective of 
saving and achieving a return on her capital.  But Im not persuaded she had much in the 
way of investment experience, and I dont think that she was prepared to take the level of 
risk posed by the MIP which was invested in the Balance Managed Growth Fund with that 
sum of money.      
Impact of charges
I note the point made by Mrs Ys representative about the impact of the charges and the 
Bank of England base rate that was in force at the relevant time. I can see that the charges 
did have an impact on the performance of the plan. But I dont agree that the charges made 
it a pointless way of saving, as the medium investment growth rate on the illustration showed 
a return of around 3.9 percent taking into account the impact of charges but excluding the 
cost of life cover and sickness benefits. While base rate may have been higher than this, this 
was a ten-year plan and the projected rate was over that whole period and base rate can, 
and does change. 
Having said that, I think the impact of the charges did affect the weighing up of risk versus 
benefit. Because Mrs Y was recommended a plan that posed more than a low level of risk 
and any benefit would be affected by the impact of charges. Therefore, the potential benefit 
was reduced. So, whilst I dont think the impact of charges, of itself, made the investment 
unsuitable for Mrs Y, I consider it was part of the overall consideration of whether the plan 
was suitable for Mrs Y.     
Inclusion of insurance coverI also note that Mrs Ys representative has said she didnt need or want the life cover 
included in the plan. However, life cover was included in these plans in order to make them 
qualifying for tax purposes. That is a feature that I think, in all likelihood, would have been 
attractive to Mrs Y. 
In addition, Mrs Y was relatively young so the cost of the life cover wouldve been relatively 
inexpensive and therefore wouldnt have had such an impact on the return. Zurich has said 
the minimum level of cover was included. 
I also note Mrs Y didnt have any life cover, she was working and she had dependent 
children. The cover under the plan represented nearly a years wages for her and therefore 
could have been beneficial. So, I dont think the inclusion of life cover made the plan 
unsuitable for her. 
Summary 
Overall, I consider the MIP recommended to Mrs Y was unsuitable taking into account her 
circumstances and objectives. I consider on balance that it posed more risk than she was 
willing to take.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs Y as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs Y's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Zurich do?
To compensate Mrs Y fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Y's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interestMaximum 
Investment 
PlanNo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Zurich totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
  Mrs Y wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
  The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
  I consider that Mrs Y's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs Y into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs Y would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs Y could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs Y in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman