DRN-3534186
The complaint
Mr M complains about what he says is/was a default recorded by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) with one or more third party credit reference agencies in respect of a 
conditional sale agreement (agreement) he had taken out with it in September 2016.
What happened
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that there was 
simply insufficient evidence to support Mr Ms submission that Moneybarn had recorded his 
agreement, with one or more third party credit reference agencies, as being in default.
Mr M didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. Both 
parties were given to 16 June 2022 to provide any further points or information they wanted 
me to take into consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator 
and for the same reasons.
For the avoidance of any doubt I would like to point out that Ive only considered in this 
decision Mr Ms complaint that Moneybarn had recorded his agreement, with one or more 
third party credit reference agencies, as being in default. This means Ive not considered in 
this decision any other complaint Mr M might have about Moneybarn, or any other party. I 
would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Moneybarn has confirmed to our service (and Mr M) that although it issued Mr M with one or 
more notices in June 2019, it never recorded the agreement as being in default with one or 
more third party credit reference agencies. I appreciate Mr M disagrees, but I find this 
submission to be both plausible and persuasive.
First, it isnt unusual for a business to issue one or more notices to a consumer in respect of 
an agreement and then go onto never record that agreement with one or more credit 
reference agencies as being in default. Secondly, Mr M hasnt provided any documentary 
evidence in support of his submission that a default was recorded by Moneybarn (in respect 
of his agreement) with one or more third party credit reference agencies  for example a 
copy of a current or historical credit report showing a default recorded. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive considered what Moneybarn told Mr M 
under cover of a notice dated 17 June 2019, which Mr M has kindly provided our service a 
copy of. But having done so I cant see that Moneybarn said (under cover of this notice) that 
it would be recording, or even that it might consider recording, the agreement with one or 
more third party credit reference agencies as being in default. So, I dont think the content of 
this particular notice helps Mr M in this particular complaint.
Mr M has provided to our service with a copy of his credit report dated 9 June 2022 (held 
and administered by one of the third party credit reference agencies).
But this report doesnt show a default recorded by Moneybarn, a fact I make reference to 
above. But I accept this doesnt mean a default wasnt recorded by Moneybarn on, or after, 
17 June 2019 and then removed/deleted by it before 9 June 2022. But I dont find this  
possibility particularly persuasive. 
I say this because, amongst other things, Moneybarn has submitted it never recorded the 
agreement as being in default with one or more third party credit reference agencies. 
Furthermore, given how Mr M has conducted himself throughout this complaint, I might have 
expected him to have been able to provide one or more credit reports (dated before 
9 June 2022) showing the recorded default he is complaining about.
In summary, and I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed, I find (on the evidence provided, 
and in the absence of evidence on the balance of probabilities) that Moneybarn never 
recorded a default in respect of Mr Ms agreement (with one or more third party credit 
reference agencies) as he submits.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman