DRN-3214722
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
failed to provide him with correct information about the potential transfer of some pension 
savings from other providers.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. In that decision 
I explained what I thought Royal London needed to do in order to put things right. Both 
parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include 
some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr P held pension savings with Royal London. He also held separate pension 
policies with at least three other providers. Sadly, in 2020, Mr P was given a terminal 
diagnosis for the cancer from which he was suffering. He therefore approached 
Royal London with a view to taking his pension benefits earlier than the normal 
allowed age of 55. Royal London accepted Mr Ps request. 
Mr P then started to discuss with Royal London whether hed be able to transfer his 
pension savings from his other pension providers to the firm. It seems that Mr P 
thought that approach might be beneficial since he would then be able to access 
those benefits early following Royal Londons previous acceptance of his ill-health 
claim. Royal London began the process of gathering information from the other 
providers about Mr Ps pension savings.
Royal London then told Mr P that it wouldnt be willing to accept the transferred 
benefits from the other providers. It seems it gave Mr P two reasons for that decision. 
It told Mr P that the pension benefits he held with at least two of the other providers 
had valuable guarantees. So that meant it wouldnt be appropriate to accept their 
transfer without Mr P taking independent financial advice. And, as a secondary and 
less important reason, it told Mr P that, given his stated intention to take the whole of 
his pension savings as an immediate lump sum, it wouldnt be financially viable for 
Royal London to cover the administrative costs of the transfers.
Royal London accepted that it hadnt provided that information to Mr P early enough 
in the transfer discussions. So it offered to pay for any additional medical reports he 
would need to provide to the other pension providers when seeking the early 
payment of those benefits. And it offered him £500 for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused. Mr P didnt accept that offer so he brought his complaint to this 
Service.
There doesnt seem to be a great deal of dispute about what happened in the time 
leading up to Mr P making his complaint. Royal London had accepted his request for 
his pension benefits to be paid early. And it had started to work with him to transfer 
his pension savings from the other providers. So what is largely required to decide 
this complaint is for me to assess what Royal London should do to put things right.
But before I do that I think it is important that I consider the transfers that Mr P was 
asking Royal London to accept. When it started gathering information about Mr Ps 
other pension savings Royal London identified that Mr P held some guaranteed 
benefits in the form of a guaranteed annuity rate on one plan and some protected 
tax-free cash on another. If Mr P were to transfer those pension savings to 
Royal London those valuable guarantees would most likely have been lost.
The transfer of guaranteed benefits such as these is tightly regulated by the FCA. 
Consumers are required to receive financial advice before making transfers of this 
nature if their pension savings exceed £30,000. So the non-advised transfer process 
that Royal London was initially offering to Mr P was relatively limited in its scope. It 
seems likely to me that he would have been unable to transfer some of his other 
pension savings to Royal London using that process even if Royal London had been 
willing to accept the transfer.
And that then leads me onto the second, albeit lesser, reason that Royal London 
gave to Mr P for declining his transfer request. There is no requirement for a pension 
provider to accept a transfer of pension savings from another scheme. Many 
providers will do so, since pension savings are generally held for a number of years, 
and so the initial costs of administering a transfer would be offset by future charges. 
But I cannot say that it would be wrong for a provider to decide the terms on which it 
might accept a transfer, or to decline that request entirely.
So I wouldnt think it reasonable to conclude that Royal London acted unfairly in not 
allowing Mr P to transfer in his pension savings from the other providers. It seems 
likely that Mr P would have needed to take regulated advice before making at least 
some of the transfers. And given his intentions to take those benefits immediately in 
the form of a lump sum it would be unlikely that any transfer would be cost effective 
for Royal London.
But, as I explained earlier, that isnt the matter that I need to decide on this complaint. 
It seems that Royal London failed to sufficiently explain how its transfer process 
would work, and left Mr P with an expectation that it would accept all his pension 
savings, and allow him to take them early due to his ill-health. So I have no doubts 
how disappointing it would have been for Mr P when that proved to not be the case.
And I think any disappointment that Mr P felt would have been heightened by his 
medical conditions and prognosis. I understand that Mr P intended to use some of his 
pension savings so that he and his wife could travel before commencing some further 
treatment. So I think it right that this additional trouble and upset should be reflected 
in any award that I make.
But I have noted that Royal London offered to pay for any additional medical 
evidence that Mr P might need to obtain before asking the other pension providers to 
pay his benefits early. I understand that Mr P didnt take up that offer. Given the 
intrusive nature of the information he would need to provide, and the time he would 
need to spend completing the process, I dont make any criticism of his decision in 
that regard. But since I consider it would have been reasonable for Royal London to 
decline his transfer request from the outset, that would have been the only approach 
open to him if hed wanted to take his other benefits early. So Royal Londons failure 
to provide sufficient information didnt create any additional work for Mr P that he 
wouldnt have needed to undertake if nothing had gone wrong.
Ive thought carefully about the offer Royal London has made to Mr P. It doesnt 
seem that Royal Londons actions have prevented Mr P from being able to utilise his other pension savings  I understand Mr P has decided not to take those other 
pension benefits until next year. And by doing so it is possible that he might benefit 
from some of the guarantees that were attached to those pension plans. So Im not 
currently minded that the compensation I should direct Royal London to pay to Mr P 
should be at the level recommended by our investigator.
On balance I think the offer of £500 that Royal London has made to Mr P for the 
trouble and upset its communication failures caused to him is reasonable. And, 
subject to any responses that I receive to this provisional decision, that is the 
compensation that I intend to direct Royal London to pay.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Royal London hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr P says that 
the stress he was put through at the time doesnt seem to have been reflected in my 
decision. But, he says he has decided to accept my provisional findings so he can 
concentrate on his ongoing treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Royal London hasnt provided me with anything further. And, for entirely understandable 
reasons, Mr P has decided to accept my provisional conclusions. So I dont see any reason 
to alter those conclusions, or the redress I proposed Royal London should pay in my 
provisional decision.
So, I think the offer of £500 that Royal London has made to Mr P for the trouble and upset its 
communication failures caused to him is reasonable. If it hasnt already done so, 
Royal London should pay that sum to Mr P within 28 days of his acceptance of this final 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman