DRN-2671688
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined her claim under her buildings 
insurance for storm damage to her garden wall.
What happened
Mrs G reported to AXA that her garden wall collapsed during a period of heavy rainfall. AXA 
instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage. On receipt of the report, AXA said there was no 
evidence of a storm, but it declined the claim under the exclusion of gradual damage.
Mrs G supplied photos and two builders reports confirming that thered been a storm and 
that the heavy rainfall caused the damage. AXA remained of the view that the wall collapsed 
mainly because of wear and tear and the weather simply highlighted existing damage.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. He thought the evidence supported Mrs Gs 
claim that thered been a storm, and AXA hadnt adequately demonstrated that wear and 
tear was the main contributory factor to the wall collapsing. Our investigator pointed out that 
AXAs own surveyor asked for weather reports after inspecting the wall, suggesting that the 
claim wasnt going to be declined for a gradually operating cause.
AXA didnt agree. It provided further information from its surveyor saying the mortar was soft 
and crumbling. AXA also said the photos didnt show evidence of cement bonded to the 
stone work. While it accepted that the surveyor referred the claim for further information 
about the local weather, AXA said the data for the day of the incident didnt meet the policy 
definition of a storm.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Let me explain.
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for AXA to decline Mrs Gs claim for the reason it 
gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert reports provided by both parties to decide whether 
Mrs G has shown that an insured peril occurred, and whether AXA has shown that it fairly 
relied on a valid exclusion.
Mrs G said her garden wall collapsed as a result of heavy rainfall. The policy provides cover 
for, Loss or damage caused by storm or flood.
The policy defines a [rain] storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour
And a flood as:
An invasion of the property by a large volume of water caused by a rapid build-up or sudden 
release of water from outside the buildings.
Buildings is defined as:
The structure of the home including fixtures and fittings and the following if they form part of 
the property:
walls, gates, fences
car ports, garages
Rainfall was recorded at a total of 28mm for the day the wall collapsed, and AXA rightly 
points out it doesnt meet the policy definition of 25mm per hour. However, the policy also 
states:
Storm damage claims
When we assess your claim, we will not rely solely on the definition of storm as this is just 
one factor we consider when you have this kind of damage to your home.
Other factors we consider are as follows:
Does the evidence show that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the 
damage is said to have happened.
Mrs G provided photos of the water remaining in her garden a few days later, and the 
weather data records the rainfall for that day as torrential. Further to this, the resulting 
floods in the area surrounding Mrs Gs home were of significant media interest, and caused 
businesses to close. 
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that there were storm and flood conditions.
Next, I looked at whether the damage was consistent with that typically caused by storm and 
flood conditions. AXA supplied a copy of its appointed surveyors report which states:
Upon inspection, there is a section of the retaining wall which has become damaged. The 
ground is built up behind this wall and there is all soil behind this area, the amount of rain 
over a 24 hour period could have caused the wall to collapse.
I think this is clear, and Im satisfied that the damage is consistent with that typically caused 
by a storm or flood.
Finally, Ive looked at whether the storm or flood was the main cause of the damage, and its 
here that AXA would need to demonstrate that it wasnt in order to fairly decline the claim. 
AXA declined the claim, relying on the following general exclusion which says the policy 
doesnt cover:
Gradual deterioration/maintenance 
Wear and tearmaintenance and upkeep of your buildings.
However, AXAs surveyor reported that the rain couldve caused the wall to collapse. I 
understand that the surveyor wasnt aware at that point whether the rainfall met storm conditions and asked for weather data. This implies that if the rainfall did meet storm 
conditions, the claim would be covered. Without that confirmation, the report supports Mrs 
Gs claim. 
Ive also noted that, under other factors we consider, the policy states:
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were other factors involved. For 
example, we look if the damage would have occurred without the storm.
AXA said its surveyor wouldve needed a complete picture of the conditions before reaching 
a decision, so it doesnt think the surveyors request for weather data implied anything. But I 
think its likely the surveyor wouldve mentioned any element of wear and tear in the report if 
it was considered significant, and in particular whether the wall wouldve collapsed without 
the storm.
AXA went on to provide a copy of the surveyors statement, written more than a year after 
the visit. The statement says that the mortar was soft and crumbled. I have no reason to 
doubt the surveyors recollection, but the information was not in the report when AXA made 
its decision and, therefore, it couldnt have relied on that as a reason to decline Mrs Gs 
claim.
Mrs G provided a report from the builder who repaired the wall who said the wall collapsed 
due to the heavy rainfall and the remaining wall was in good condition. This, in conjunction 
with AXAs report and evidence of storm conditions persuades me that torrential rainfall was 
the main cause of the damage and its unlikely it wouldve collapsed without the storm.
In summary, I dont think AXA has demonstrated that it had enough evidence to fairly decline 
the claim under the gradual deterioration exclusion. As the remaining evidence points 
towards storm and flood conditions causing the wall to collapse, Im satisfied that AXA 
should reconsider Mrs Gs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
reconsider the claim without relying on the gradual deterioration exclusion, in line 
with the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman