DRN-2651035
The complaint
Mr H complains Covea Insurance Plc unfairly cancelled his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
In 2016 Mr H took out a Covea motor trade insurance policy. The policy renewed a few 
times. Around the time of the policys renewal in December 2019 Covea asked for proof of 
Mr Hs motor trade activity. It felt there was little sign on a motor database of him having 
traded recently.  
Mr H didnt provide this information until July 2020. In April 2020 he had told Covea he was 
unable to do so as he was out of the country and unable to return due to the pandemic. 
Covea extended the deadline for the information. Eventually Mr H returned to the UK and 
provided details of his trading activity. Covea felt it didnt show enough activity in the 
previous 12 months. So it cancelled his policy and provided a refund of the premium minus a 
charge for time on cover.
Mr H complained about the cancellation. He said the pandemic had resulted in a lack of 
trading activity. In response Covea said it had treated Mr H fairly. It said he hadnt shown he 
was a full-time motor trader as hed said he was. It said there had been insufficient activity in 
the period before the pandemic. It also said Mr H had reported being involved in motor trade 
activities outside the UK. It said that type of activity wasnt acceptable to it. So it felt the 
policy was unsuitable for him and had been cancelled in line with his policy terms.  
Our investigator felt Coveas decision to cancel Mr Hs policy was fair and reasonable and 
made in line with his policy terms. She didnt recommend it provide any additional refund or 
do any differently. Mr H didnt accept that, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cancellation of an insurance policy can have significant implications. So Ive considered 
if Coveas decision to cancel Mr Hs was not only made in line with the terms of his policy  
but also that it was a fair and reasonable to do. Having done so, I think it was. 
The policy provides cover to those in the motor trade. Mr H took it out on the basis that he 
was a full-time member of the trade  selling cars. So it seems reasonable for Covea to want 
to be assured that policyholders are currently involved in the trade and using the cover 
appropriately. As Coveas pointed out Mr Ls policy documents require him to provide it with 
evidence of his trading activity when requested.  
In July 2020 Mr H provided proof of his trading over the last few years. This showed a 
vehicle being traded in August 2019 but no further activity until the same month in 2020. 
Covea felt that was insufficient activity. Mr Hs said that the pandemic meant he hadnt done 
much trade. But restrictions, relating to the pandemic, on activity didnt come into place until 
mid-March 2020. Yet Mr H hasnt shown any motor trade activity in the six months prior to 
that.
Mr H had taken out the cover on the basis of being a full-time motor trader but unfortunately 
couldnt show he had been involved in a reasonable level of trade in the six months around 
the policy renewal date. Because of that I cant say Coveas decision to cancel his motor 
trade policy as it was unsuitable for him was unfair or unreasonable. It provided him with a 
reasonable time to provide proof of trade but unfortunately he wasnt able to. 
Mr Hs said he took out the cover as part-time, not full time, trader. I havent seen anything to 
support what he says. But in any event, I cant say thats likely to make a difference. The 
level of trade he seemed to be involved with in the relevant period probably wouldnt be 
enough to be described as part-time either.  
It seems Covea provided Mr H with a refund of his premium subject to a charge for the time 
he had on cover  from December 2019 to the summer of 2020. I cant say that was unfair 
as it seems he had vehicles listed on the policy. He benefited from that period of cover and 
Covea were at risk of claims being made against the policy. So its reasonable that he pays 
for it.
Covea when explaining its reason for cancelling the policy, also referred to Mr H being 
involved in motor trade activities abroad. Hes denied such activity. But I havent considered 
this issue as it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint either way. Thats because 
even if I accepted he wasnt trading abroad Id still say it was fair for Covea to cancel his 
policy for his failure to show sufficient motor trade activity.
Mr H says Covea discriminated against him in some way. Ive considered that but havent 
seen anything to support what he says. Overall I cant say Coveas treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. So Im not going to require it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman