DRN-4252795
The complaint
Miss W has complained about her car insurer Covea Insurance plc, regarding repairs it 
completed to her car after she was involved in an accident.
What happened
Miss W had an accident in July 2021. Covea took her car for repair. The car was returned to 
her in November 2021  there had been a delay in some parts being obtained. Miss W took 
the car to a local garage on 19 November 2021 as she was concerned about the cars 
steering. She then called Covea in late December 2021. Covea agreed to check the car  
the car was returned to Coveas garage on 19 January 2022.
Covea felt the steering issue wasnt likely linked to the incident and its initial repairs. But it 
agreed for a manufacturer garage (MG) to assess the car. Covea said Miss W should pay for 
transport to the MG and get a report. All of which it would reimburse if it was found the 
steering was related to the incident/repairs. The car was moved and Miss W said the report 
was due 7 February 2022. A report wasnt provided but in March 2022 a service advisor for 
the garage said the steering issue, and a snapped suspension spring, had likely resulted 
from the accident. Covea didnt think that was enough  but said it would review the matter 
again if Miss W got an engineers report.
In May 2022 Miss W obtained an engineers report. She sent this to Covea and Covea 
agreed to fix the steering issue under the claim. But there were several other issues with the 
car Miss W also thought Covea should be covering, identified by the MG (where the car was 
still sited). But Covea thought they were wear and tear issues. The MG agreed a price for 
repair of the steering with Covea  but said the other issues needed fixing too and it couldnt 
do the steering in isolation. Covea issued a final response on 5 July 2022 confirming it had 
authorised repairs for the steering issue. Miss W had also complained about not having a 
courtesy car whilst hers was away for repair. Covea, in its final response, said that was 
because Miss W had told it, in January 2022, that she did not need a courtesy car to be 
provided by it as she had hired a car herself. 
Miss W remained unhappy. She said she thought Covea should now be finding her car a 
total loss  that it would have done that during the initial repairs if it hadnt missed the 
steering issue. She also disputed Coveas view that the other necessary repairs were wear 
and tear  not least as she had not really driven her car since the accident the year before. 
When Covea wouldnt agree to total loss the car, or authorise the other necessary repairs to 
be done, Miss W arranged for her car to be returned to her with no work having been done 
to it. Covea, in January 2023, paid Miss W £2,524.80  which was the cost, including VAT, 
the MG had given for repair of the steering. Miss W had already complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and our Investigator reviewed her complaint.
Our Investigator didnt think Covea had been unfair in its handing of her claim. But she did 
think it should reimburse Miss Ws report costs of £45.00 and £120.00. Covea agreed. 
Miss W remained unhappy  she didnt think it was fair that having had an accident, and 
repairs completed under her insurance policy, she now had a car she could not drive. The 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt it should be upheld in part. With Covea reimbursing the two report costs incurred by 
Miss W and for her hire costs incurred in late January and early February 2022. Further, I felt 
it should be paying interest on the cash settlement sum paid in January 2023, reimbursing 
Miss Ws outlay for moving her car to the MG in February 2022 and paying her £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. But I wasnt otherwise minded to make Covea 
do anything more. My provisional findings were:
Once Miss W obtained the engineers report in May 2022 it was reasonably obvious that the 
steering issue was related to the incident. And she later provided this service with a short 
report by a garage completed in November 2021, showing the steering was an issue within a 
matter of days of the car being returned to her. But, whilst reviewing this complaint, Ive had 
to think about what Covea reasonably knew when Miss W first told it of her concerns about 
the car. Of course the car should have been fixed fully in the first place but sometimes things 
are missed and, when that happens, Id expect an insurer to act reasonably  based on the 
detail available to it at that point  and to consider and look into the concerns notified to it.
Whilst Miss W took the car to another garage in November (at a cost of £45.00), she did not 
contact Covea about the steering until late December. She said shed been driving the car in 
the meantime and Covea noted that Miss W generally uses her car more than the average 
person. Miss W has described to us the amount she uses her car each day and she does 
travel quite a lot. Miss W did not show Covea the November report from the garage at that 
time. Covea was also aware that there is a known manufacturer fault with the steering on the 
model type of Miss Ws car. Given the possibility of a manufacturer fault, that Miss W had 
been using the car for nearly two months since the initial repairs and her unusually high 
mileage, Covea wasnt prepared to just accept the steering was a missed repair from the 
accident. I think that was reasonable. 
However, Covea did agree for its approved garage to reassess the car. At this time, it wasnt 
prepared to provide a courtesy or hire car for Miss W  it felt she hadnt taken care of the car 
shed been given to use during the initial repairs. I think that was reasonable of it. But when 
Miss W said shed hired a car herself, as Covea was inspecting her car, I think it should have 
offered to cover her hire costs. When Covea inspected the car it felt it had to be referred to 
the MG. The MG was due to report on the car on 7 February 2022.  I think its reasonable to 
require Covea to reimburse Miss Ws hire costs from 19 January 2022 until 7 February 2022, 
plus interest. Miss W will need to show proof of her outlay to Covea for it to pay her.
Im not asking Covea to pay Miss Ws hire costs beyond that time. At that time Covea had 
been asking for evidence from Miss W to tie the steering issue to the accident. The MG was 
acting for Miss W in respect of providing a report. It didnt do that at the agreed time, and 
when it did comment on the issue that was from a person not suitably qualified to make such 
a determination. I dont think it was unreasonable for Covea to have expected at least a 
mechanic assessing Miss Ws car to have commented on the steering issue and I can 
understand why it wasnt prepared to accept the view of the service advisor. That caused 
Covea to ask for an engineers report from Miss W, and I think that was a fair and 
reasonable request in the circumstances.
It took Miss W until May 2022 to get an engineers report (at a cost of £120.00). This 
commented on the steering issue. It was presented to Covea on 18 May 2023 and Covea 
was persuaded it reasonably showed the steering issue had resulted from the accident. It 
authorised the repairs but it knew by then that Miss W had concerns about other faults with 
the car which needed fixing. And which it had said it was not responsible for. That being the 
case, I think Covea should have paid cash to Miss W in May 2022 to allow her to fix the 
steering issue. It paid Miss W £2,524.80 in January 2023. It should now pay an amount to 
her equivalent to interest on this sum applied from 18 May 2022 until settlement was made.Covea has agreed to reimburse the £120.00 fee for Miss Ws engineers report. It should add 
interest to that sum from 18 May 2023 until settlement is made. Our Investigator has sent 
Covea proof of this charge already, along with that for the £45.00 November report, so 
Miss W wont have to send Covea anything further in this respect. 
It was Coveas view that the MG needed to comment on the steering issue. There was a 
cost to move the car there and it has subsequently been shown, and accepted by Covea, 
that the steering issue was accident related. If Miss W can show Covea proof of payment to 
the transport company which moved her car, Covea should reimburse this, I know Miss W is 
having some trouble finding receipts  she may like to contact the transport company to see 
if it can provide a copy or other confirmation of payment. As Covea hasnt been shown proof 
of this cost before, I wont require it to pay interest.
I think this has been a difficult time for Miss W. But I can also understand that Covea has, at 
times, reasonably not been able to progress matters because its been waiting for evidence 
from Miss W. Im also mindful too that Miss W feels Covea is responsible for more repairs to 
the car than just the steering. Ill explain below why I think Coveas position regarding the 
other faults is fair and reasonable. Taking into account what has happened, I think £300 
compensating is fairly and reasonably due. Miss W will likely feel that is insufficient. But Id 
emphasize that after 7 February 2022, Covea was waiting for evidence to show the steering 
issue was accident related and it didnt get sufficient evidence in this respect until May 2022, 
whereupon it quickly gave the MG authorisation to complete the repairs. And the MG only 
couldnt complete that work because of the other faults Covea wasnt liable for fixing. So 
Covea isnt, in my view, reasonably responsible for Miss W being without her car for such an 
extended period. 
The other faults/things Miss W feels Covea should fix, which it has disagreed with, are:
Snapped suspension spring.
Brake pads and discs.
The battery is flat and needs replacing.
Faulty sensor in exhaust, triggering warning light on dash.
MOT.
Miss W hasnt presented any expert report on these issues. There is the comment from the 
service advisor at the MG about the suspension spring. But as with the steering, their 
opinion doesnt amount to an expert view, so it isnt persuasive. Disc brakes and pads are 
subject to wear and tear  with Miss W having used the car after it was returned to her in 
November 2021 until it went to Coveas garage for reassessment in January 2022. The 
battery may well have suffered as a result of the car being stood so long  but as I said 
above, I dont think that was due to any unreasonable action of Covea. The faulty sensor is 
in the exhaust so it seems unrelated to a front-end collision. An MOT was needed in the 
normal course of Miss W owning the car. Overall Im satisfied that Covea has fairly 
determined that it is not responsible for fixing these issues.
Finally, I know that Miss W, the above other faults aside, feels that Covea should be 
viewing her car as a total loss. She feels that it would have treated the car as a total loss in 
2021 had it correctly identified the steering issue as a part of the overall necessary repair. 
Im not persuaded that is most likely, although it is possible (the market value was around 
£18,000 with the total cost of repairs, including the steering, at around £11,000). But this isnt 
a situation where none of the repairs have been done, or they all need re-doing. Rather 
Covea has paid around £9,000 completing all repairs but the steering, and had paid Miss W 
just over £2,000 so she can have the late-identified steering issue fixed. I think it would be unfair and unreasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint to make Covea take 
the car, treat it as a total loss and pay Miss W its market value.
Covea did not respond to my provisional decision. Miss W said all this  the damage to her 
car which wasnt fixed and the refusal to offer a courtesy car  was all the fault of the 
repairing garage. Which all led, she said, to her being without her car for an extended period 
despite having paid her excess and insurance premium. Miss W said two years of stress and 
her car returned to her in a broken state are just not acceptable  the car should be 
roadworthy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Miss W. Covea is her insurer and it 
authorised the repair of her car. So the error by the garage in returning the car to her with an 
unidentified and unrepaired fault, was Coveas error. Further, whilst I felt the garage and 
therefore Covea was not unreasonable in not offering a replacement car to Miss W, I did 
think Covea should have extended an offer to her to cover her hire costs.
I explained provisionally why I felt that Covea was not responsible for Miss W having been 
without the use of her car since enquiries into the condition in which it was returned to her 
began. I also explained why I felt Covea had reasonably denied liability for the faults with the 
car (other than the steering) identified by Miss W after her car was returned to her in 2021. 
I remain of those views.
Having reviewed the complaint in light of Miss Ws reply, my view on it remains unchanged. 
As such my provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, 
my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Covea to pay Miss W:
£45.00 as reimbursement of the cost incurred for the November report.
£120.00 as reimbursement of the engineers May report, plus interest* applied from 
18 May 2022 until settlement is made.
An amount to reimburse her hire costs incurred for a hire vehicle from 19 January 2022 
to 7 February 2022, plus interest* added on to each amount reimbursed from the date 
Miss W paid it until 28 days after Miss W tells us she accepts my final decision (if it 
remains the same and she does), or until she presents the evidence, whichever is 
sooner. If Miss W does not provide proof of her outlay, it wont have to make a payment.
An amount equivalent to interest*, on the sum of £2,524.80, applied from 18 May 2022 
until settlement of that sum was paid to Miss W in January 2023.
An amount as reimbursement of the cost Miss W incurred to move her car from Coveas 
garage to the MG in January/February 2022. Miss W will need to show Covea what she 
paid, if she doesnt present proof of this to Covea, it wont have to make a payment.
£300 compensation for upset.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Covea to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman