DRN-1540618
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Allianz Insurance Plc handled her motor insurance claim. In 
particular, she feels her car wasn't repaired properly. She's also unhappy with delays and 
the overall service provided.
What happened
Mrs Gs car was damaged in May 2018. The car was taken for repairs, but on collection
Mrs G didn't feel that it had been fully repaired, and may have even been damaged further 
by the garage - so it had to go back for further work.
There was a delay in Mrs Gs car being taken back to the garage for the remedial work, due 
to her going on holiday and some communication issues between them and Allianz. Allianz 
apologised for these issues and paid Mrs G £100 compensation.
Mrs Gs car was collected in November 2018 and was ready for her in January 2019.
Mrs G wasn't happy with this as she said she sometimes had to use two cars, with the 
courtesy car not being big enough for her whole family.
When Mrs G collected her car, she found the garage to be rude and felt threatened by them 
saying shell need luck with her car. Mrs G then took her car to another garage which said a 
significant amount of work was required on it  costing £2730.47, plus VAT of £546.09.
Allianz said it couldn't determine whether its garage had caused further damage, but it 
agreed to pay for the work identified if Mrs G had it done. It also paid her a further £200 
compensation. Mrs G didn't have the work done and brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator here felt the compensation and resolution put forward by Allianz was fair.
Mrs G said she wanted to have her car repaired, so she could sell it. She didn't think the 
compensation was enough, bearing in mind the difficulties she had with the courtesy car. 
And she wasn't happy that she wouldn't get a hire car paid for, while these final repairs were 
carried out.
Allianz then agreed to cover the cost of a hire car, it also added the options to pay Mrs Gs 
garage directly, so she wouldn't be out-of-pocket, or to pay a cash settlement for the cost of 
repair, less the VAT.
Mrs G has recently agreed to accept the cash settlement. But she still feels the 
compensation should be increased. And she says she had to pay to borrow a car at times, 
because the courtesy car wasn't big enough.
Because agreement couldn't be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I'm upholding Mrs G's complaint because I think Allianz did something wrong, but I'm not 
asking it to pay further compensation for trouble and upset - because I think £300 is fair. I'll 
explain why.
When Mrs G first collected her car and felt it hadn't been fully repaired, and had possibly 
been damaged by the garage, Allianz agreed for it to go back to the garage for remedial 
work. This was despite an inspection of the car being inconclusive on the above. It also 
agreed to pay her £100 and said it would ask the garage to provide a family sized car to her 
moving forward. This is what Id expect an insurer to do in these circumstances and I think 
the offer of compensation was fair at that point.
I appreciate Mrs G wasn't happy for the car to go back to the same garage, but can see from 
Allianz's notes that it offered an alternative. In view of this, I think Allianz was trying to treat 
Mrs G fairly.
Mrs G says she didn't receive a family sized car from Allianz during the secondary repairs. 
She says she had to struggle at times, using two smaller cars instead. And sometimes paid 
someone she knew to borrow their car.
I've thought about this but note that Allianz agreed to provide a family car, and I can see that 
it requested a bigger car from the garage. I appreciate Mrs G wasn't provided with a family 
sized car, but I think all she needed to do was let Allianz know so it could rectify this. I can't 
see anywhere in the records that this happened. I know it would've been more 
inconvenience for Mrs G, but I don't think it would've been too difficult - and I believe Allianz 
would've honoured what it had agreed, if it was aware.
So even though Mrs G may have paid someone she knew, to borrow their car, I don't think I 
can fairly say Allianz should cover those costs. Because it had already offered a solution to 
prevent those costs being incurred.
The second occasion Mrs G's car went back for repairs does seem to have taken a long 
time, but she had a courtesy car and as above I think she could've asked for the family car. 
So I don't think much of the inconvenience arising from this could've been avoided. As with 
the first time, Allianz agreed to a further inspection. The engineer said the initial repairs had 
been completed to the required standard, and whilst there was some other damage he 
couldn't say whether that could be attributed to the original garage.
Nevertheless, Allianz agreed to cover the cost of repairs identified by Mrs G's garage, and it 
paid her £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I think this was a fair outcome 
for Mrs G and while I appreciate she may have been reluctant to have further repairs done, 
after what she said the garage told her, the repairs would've been carried out at her garage 
of choice - which appears to specialise in her type of car.
As explained, Allianz has now agreed to cash settle this part of the complaint by paying the 
£2,730.47. I think this is a fair alternative to paying for the repairs to be done, and Mrs G has 
said she'd like to accept this offer.
I do understand this has been quite a long and drawn out affair, given the original damage 
occurred in May 2018. And I can understand why Mrs G now says she doesn't trust the car 
being repaired anymore. But I think Allianz has offered a reasonable solution at each point 
Mrs G complained, and given her the benefit of doubt in relation to the damage she wants 
repaired. It has caused some delays and could've provided a better service though and it 
has paid £300 for that and passed on the garage manager's apologies for the way Mrs G 
had been spoken to. All things considered, I think that's fair.Putting things right
Allianz should put things right for Mrs G by paying her the £2,730.47 it has agreed to. This 
represents the repair costs, less the VAT. And it's in addition to the £300 compensation that 
it has already paid.
I appreciate Mrs G would've liked more compensation, but for the reasons explained I think 
this represents a fair conclusion to her complaint.
My final decision
It's my final decision that I uphold Mrs G's complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay her £2,730.47.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman