DRN-2689212
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received when he visited his local branch of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
What happened
During a visit to branch, Mr S was unable to use one of the self-service coin machines.  He 
requested some money but this was not dispensed.  However, the funds were still taken 
from his account.
A sign by the machine told Mr S that the machine wasnt accepting coins  but Mr S thought 
this would mean that it was still dispensing.
When he spoke to a cashier, the money he had requested was paid to him  but he said 
staff were dismissive and rude towards him.  He said they were mocking the way he spoke.
Mr S complained to Barclays about these issues.  He said he wanted an apology for the way 
he was treated, he wanted the signage in branch to be clearer and he wanted appropriate 
action to be taken against the branch staff.
Barclays did not uphold his complaint.  It said the signage was adequate and that it would 
carry out an internal investigation with regards the behaviour of staff.  In its final response 
letter, it reminded him of his right to refer his complaint to this service.
So, Mr S asked out service to consider his complaint.  To resolve his complaint, he re-
iterated his request for an apology, he wanted the machines in branch to be fixed and for 
Barclays to train their staff so that they dealt with customers fairly.
Our investigator didnt think she could fairly ask Barclays to do anymore.  She thought it had 
offered a sufficient apology to Mr S in its letter to him, she thought the signage in branch was 
adequate and she thought Barclays had been fair in how it had dealt with the complaint 
about staff members by saying it would carry out an internal investigation.
Mr S didnt agree.  He made further submissions about the wording of the sign and said the 
apology it had offered was insufficient.  He wanted a genuine apology.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I arrive at the same outcome as the investigator and for very much the 
same reasons.
I understand Mr S isnt happy with the wording on the signs and wants this service to tell 
Barclays to fix the machines in branch.  Thats not this services role.  My role in making a 
final decision is to decide whether I think Barclays dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly and 
reasonably  and I think it did.
I wont be asking Barclays to issue a further apology to Mr S.  It acknowledged his feelings 
when it wrote to him in response to his complaint.  I think that is a fair and reasonable 
response.
And I think it is a matter for Barclays to carry out an investigation into staff conduct if such an 
issue is raised.  Im pleased to see that it did this.  The type of training it gives its members 
of staff is again, a matter for Barclays and not this service.
So, in the circumstances, I think Barclays has dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly and 
reasonably and I wont be asking that it does anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaiint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman