DRN-3920491
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont refund transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Mr D received a text message followed by a call from someone claiming to be from 
Starling. They told him someone was trying to use his account and said theyd help to 
secure it. Mr D recalled some of their instructions to do this  for example, confirming 
some of his card details and deleting the Starling app.
After the call, Mr D contacted Starling and discovered two payments had left his 
account totalling £3,100. Starling declined to refund these and further to a complaint, 
it maintained its position. So Mr D brought his concerns to our service to investigate. 
On 22 December 2022, I issued a provisional decision which upheld the complaint. 
Starling didnt reply by the deadline given. Mr D accepted my findings and confirmed 
that his Insolvency Practitioner didnt have an interest in the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither side had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. For completeness, Ive included my findings again below.
Starling accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts Mr 
D failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep his 
personalised security details safe.
Im not persuaded thats the right consideration. These transactions came entirely 
from Mr Ds overdraft. As per Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, he isnt 
liable for losses arising for the unauthorised use of a credit facility. Thats not subject 
to a consideration of intent or gross negligence.
So Starling need to put things right  by restoring his account to how it wouldve been 
had these unauthorised payments not been taken. Ive set out how I expect Starling 
to do that below.
Starling ought to have sorted this out much sooner  because it didnt, Mr D has 
been stressed and anxious about getting this money back. And this happened at a 
time when his circumstances made him vulnerable  something he explained to 
Starling at the time. So I also award £250 to reflect his non-financial losses.
Ive noted Mr D is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. So he needs to 
provide our service with confirmation over whether his Insolvency Practitioner has an 
interest in this complaint. I remind Mr D that any sum of money he receives could 
affect the terms of his IVA, so its important he lets them know.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Starling Bank Limited must:
Pay Mr D the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £3,100.
Rework Mr Ds account and refund any interest and charges, along with amending 
his credit report to remove any negative reporting, that were caused by the 
transactions. If Mr D repaid the borrowing created by the transactions, Starling 
should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date he repaid the borrowing to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay Mr D £250 to reflect his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman