DRN-3881416
The complaint
Mr H complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him an accident, sickness and 
unemployment policy. 
What happened
In 1999 Mr H purchased an accident, sickness and unemployment policy designed to cover 
his interest only mortgage. The accident and sickness elements of the policy were later sold 
onto ReAssure, so ReAssure has become the respondent business for this complaint. 
In 2021 Mr H became too unwell to work and made a successful sickness claim on his 
policy. However, when he was told hed receive around £18 per month in benefit he 
complained. 
Mr H said that when the policy was sold to him he was told hed get around £185 per month 
in benefit. He also said that despite the interest payments on his mortgage now being much 
lower, hed been making additional overpayments of around £150 a month towards his 
actual mortgage balance too, and those should be covered by the policys monthly benefit. 
ReAssure looked into Mr Hs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. It said the policy was 
only designed to cover the interest aspect of Mr Hs interest only mortgage and it didnt think 
it had been mis-sold to him. 
When Mr H brought that complaint to this service one of our investigators looked at what had 
happened. They said the documentation available from the time of the sale clearly set out 
that the policy was only intended to cover interest payments, and that benefit would 
decrease throughout its term too. So they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint either. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion and reiterated his concerns. He also said hed 
been led to believe he would get around £185 per month in the event of a claim and he 
provided a list of specific questions that he wanted answered too. So as no agreement was 
reached the complaint was passed to me to determine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr H found himself unwell and needing to make a claim. His strength of 
feeling about what has happened is clear. I think it important to highlight that although Ive 
considered everything, Ill not be responding to each and every point or question raised. I will 
instead focus my decision on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I cannot agree that Mr Hs policy was mis-sold. For the reasons Ill now explain I am of the 
opinion that it was suitable for his needs and circumstances at the time:  
Looking at the available documentation from the sale I note a completed 
application/proposal form for Mr H. Page 2 of this form sets out that the policy Mr H 
was applying for covers interest rates up to 15%. Specifically, it says:
The Mortgage Payment Insurance and Unemployment Cover benefit varies in line 
with the Halifax Standard Variable rate and aims to cover your mortgage up to an 
interest rate of 15%.
The interest rate on Mr Hs mortgage appears to have been lower than 15% at the 
time of the sale, and so the policy would seem suitable in that regard.
The same application/proposal form also directed any applicants applying for a 
mortgage payment insurance policy (like Mr H was at the time) to refer to the forms 
glossary of terms. Looking at that glossary it explains:
Mortgage payment insurance
If you choose this option we will pay the specified benefit to help you make your 
mortgage payments if, due to illness or accident you are unable to work and may pay 
your payments for up to three months after you return to work. You will select the 
amount of benefit and pre-benefit period at the start of your plan. We will adjust the 
benefit for movement in mortgage interest rates. Cover against unemployment is 
available as an option under this plan. For further details please refer to the Product 
Guide.
So, as I think our investigator rightly explained, the policy sold to Mr H was designed 
to cover the interest aspect of his mortgage and as Mr H had taken out an interest 
only mortgage at the time this again appears to have been suitable. 
I appreciate Mr H thinks the additional payments of around £150 he now makes 
towards his actual mortgage balance should also be covered by the policy too. Those 
payments arent interest payments, so based on the above and what the point of sale 
documentation actually shows I cant fairly agree that they should be covered. 
Mr H may have needed around £185 a month to cover his interest payments at the 
time of the sale. But that amount was, as Mr H has already acknowledged, 
understandably lower when he came to claim on the policy some 22 years after the 
sale and the sale documentation had explained that benefit would be adjusted in line 
with mortgage interest rates.
Mr H has provided a copy of his most recent policy renewal to support his position of 
believing hed receive £185. Though I have no reason to doubt what Mr H says he 
believed, I must still take into account what the available documentation from the 
time of the sale shows and having done so I cant agree that the product was 
unsuitable for him or was intended to cover more than his interest payments. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr H has been too unwell to work and I appreciate the impact he says 
matters have had on him. For all of the reasons given above though, I cant fairly agree that 
his policy was mis-sold and as such I will not be directing ReAssure Limited to take any 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman