DRN-3742420
The complaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold a lifetime mortgage by Key Retirement Solutions Limited. 
Shes been represented in bringing her complaint by solicitors and more recently by a family 
member. But, for ease, I refer to Mrs B throughout.
What happened
In around August 2006 Mrs B met a representative of Key Retirement Solutions Limited 
(KRS) to discuss releasing equity from her property. She entered into an equity release  or 
lifetime  mortgage in October 2006, which gave her an initial lump sum of around £21,500 
and the ability to draw down further funds in the future. In around May 2021, when Mrs B 
was looking at selling her property and moving in with a relative, she was surprised to find 
out shed have to pay around £66,000 to pay off the mortgage.
Mrs B complained to KRS that theyd mis-sold the lifetime mortgage to her. She said if things 
had been properly explained, she wouldnt have agreed to it. KRS hadnt told her how the 
mortgage would work or made sure she understood it - including the interest that would be 
charged and the early repayment charge (ERC) that applied. 
Mrs B said the lifetime mortgage was unsuitable for her needs and circumstances and that 
should have been clear to KRS at the time. She said shed always planned to move in with 
her relative and recalled telling KRS that. Mrs B said shed been influenced by a friend whod 
been with her when she met KRS. She questioned why, given her age and vulnerability, 
KRS hadnt asked for a family member to be present when the mortgage was discussed. 
Thered been an urgency for her to sign up to the mortgage. Looking back Mrs B felt that had 
been motivated by KRSs wish to secure their commission. 
To put things right Mrs B wanted KRS to pay the difference between the amount required to 
pay off the mortgage and the capital advanced to her under the mortgage plus any fees paid 
to KRS that werent included in the capital advance.
KRS rejected Mrs Bs complaint. They said theyd provided her with all appropriate 
information and advice, and the recommendation theyd made met her objectives at the time.  
Since Mrs B didnt agree, she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator thought KRS had acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with relevant 
guidance in recommending the lifetime mortgage to Mrs B. She didnt think the evidence 
showed KRS had reason to think Mrs B was vulnerable or under pressure from her friend. 
And shed had time and opportunity to involve a family member in the process if shed 
wanted to. Since Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view, her complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided detailed information and submissions for which Im grateful  
theyve helped me understand their respective positions. I wont set out everything theyve 
said in detail here. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
the service we provide. Id like to reassure the parties Ive carefully considered everything 
theyve said before reaching my decision.
Mrs Bs drawn our attention to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles she 
considers KRS breached in advising her. And shes referred to the business standards set 
out in part 8 of the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB) 
which relate to arrangers and sellers of equity release mortgages. I take the FCA principles, 
MCOB and other relevant industry guidance into consideration in coming to my decision. 
Firms advising on lifetime mortgages should take reasonable care to ensure the advice they 
provide is suitable. That includes ensuring the lifetime mortgage is appropriate to the needs, 
objectives and circumstances of the customer and that the mortgage contract proposed is 
the most suitable of those the adviser has available to them.
Mrs Bs key concerns in relation to the advice KRS gave her are as follows:
The fact find carried out by KRS was inadequate. It failed to record Mrs Bs needs 
and circumstances properly or fully cost her proposed spending to make sure the 
recommendation was suitable.
There were discrepancies between the fact find and suitability report.
The suitability report was generic, lacking in detail and insufficiently personalised. It 
didnt address Mrs Bs future plans or intentions for her estate.
Mrs B had substantial savings and excess monthly income. KRS should have 
advised Mrs B to release a smaller sum and use some of her savings to meet her 
objectives. 
The main reason for recommending equity release was that it allowed Mrs B to draw 
down further sums in the future. But the fact find didnt suggest Mrs B required that 
facility. And the mortgage KRS recommended wasnt the most suitable one in any 
event.
Mrs B planned to stay in her home for as long as possible and then move in with a 
relative if she was unable to continue living independently. It wasnt in her best 
interests to take out a mortgage with an ERC.
Mrs Bs friend was driving the application. She was elderly and widowed, and 
vulnerable to his influence. He guided the discussions. KRS should have made sure 
they discussed things with her alone or in the presence of a family member. 
KRS failed to explain things to Mrs B in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
They didnt give her enough time to review the suitability report before she signed the 
mortgage application.
Given the time thats passed since the lifetime mortgage was arranged in 2006 its likely that 
memories have faded over time on the part of both Mrs B and KRS. And Im not aware of 
any call recordings that might help, as I understand meetings took place face to face. In the 
circumstances, whilst the parties recollections are relevant, I think its reasonable to put 
more evidential weight on the documents that were prepared at the time.
  
Im sorry to hear Mrs B felt pressured by her friend. But theres no suggestion in the 
documents Mrs B wasnt capable of making her own decisions. KRS checked her family 
supported her decision to go ahead with the lifetime mortgage as the fact find and suitability 
report confirm. And Mrs B had the opportunity between the initial meeting at the beginning of August 2006 and accepting the mortgage offer several weeks later to raise any concerns 
with KRS or a family member.
The fact find recorded that Mrs B wanted to raise funds for a holiday and gifts for her family. 
Mrs Bs family members and the fact she had a will were recorded. Although she wanted to 
leave some of her property value to her beneficiaries, she answered no when asked if she 
wished to guarantee that. 
Mrs B didnt expect her circumstances to change, such as moving home, in the future. And 
she said no when asked if it was important to be able to move into sheltered 
accommodation. Mrs B recalls letting KRS know of her plans to move in with a relative. Id 
expect KRS to have noted that in the fact find if she had. I think its unlikely, on balance, 
KRS were aware of that.
Other options for raising money including downsizing, using other funds/assets and other 
borrowing were considered and rejected by Mrs B. She preferred to leave existing savings 
and investments as they were.
Mrs B said she had no intention of repaying the mortgage early and didnt require the 
flexibility to do so. She didnt want to go through the procedure of re-mortgaging and 
preferred a draw down arrangement which would avoid that. The fact find confirmed draw 
down had been explained to her.
I think the information gathering KRS carried out was sufficiently rigorous to establish       
Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives. They were entitled to rely on the information she gave 
them. Im satisfied equity release was probably the only viable option for her at the time. 
KRS prepared a suitability report setting out their recommendations based on the fact find. 
They presented it to Mrs B at a second appointment around a fortnight after the initial 
meeting. The report made clear on the first page she should read it together with the fact find 
and Key Facts Illustration (KFI). It drew attention to what the KFI said about fees, ERCs, the 
effect of roll up interest over time and the risks associated with the recommended lifetime 
mortgage scheme. 
The KFI explained how the lifetime mortgage would work. It set out the fixed interest rate 
that would apply throughout the term. The way in which interest would build up over time 
was explained in a table. And the circumstances in which an ERC would have to be paid and 
how it would be calculated were also set out. 
The suitability report checked Mrs B had answered all the fact find questions accurately. It 
recorded that Mrs B had discussed things with her family and they were happy for her to go 
ahead with the lifetime mortgage. It gave her the chance to let KRS know if anything in the 
report was wrong. And it warned the advice KRS were giving was limited to raising money 
from her property.
I think the suitability report fairly reflected Mrs Bs objectives that had been determined 
through the fact find. For example, it restated her plans to raise money for a holiday and gifts 
to her family. And the recommendation KRS made about the lifetime mortgage she should 
take met her wish for a flexible draw down facility, her preference not to raise funds by other 
means and their understanding she planned to remain in the property. KRS explained clearly 
the mortgage they recommended and why other options were discounted. 
The suitability report explained that interest would accrue and there was no guarantee there 
would be any value left in the property on Mrs Bs death. It said if she repaid early, ERCs 
may be payable as the KFI also explained. And the report recommended Mrs B notify anyone who could inherit from her estate of her intentions.
The suitability report and KFI contained a lot of detailed information. KRS took Mrs B through 
them at the meeting. Id expect Mrs B to have read the documents too given their 
importance. Its reasonable to think she would have understood them if she had. They 
explained things in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading as Id expect, in line with 
FCA requirements, including how interest would roll up and when an ERC would have to be 
paid. Mrs B signed the declaration confirming shed read and understood the contents of the 
report and accepted the basis on which the scheme worked and was happy to proceed. I 
think it was reasonable for KRS to think shed understood the information theyd provided.
I acknowledge Mrs Bs concerns about being asked to sign the mortgage application on the 
same day as she got the suitability report. But she wasnt bound to accept a mortgage offer 
then. The lender issued an offer several weeks later. So, she had time to reflect before 
accepting its terms. The offer was in similar terms to the KFI and explained again how 
interest rolled up and how the ERC applied.
Before Mrs B accepted the mortgage offer she had written advice from a solicitor about its 
effect. The solicitor drew her attention to the fact she might want to discuss things with her 
beneficiaries before going ahead. So, she had a further opportunity to ask questions if she 
had any concerns before the lifetime mortgage completed in October 2006. 
Overall, I think KRS followed an appropriately robust and rigorous sales process. Their 
recommendations reasonably met Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives at the time. I can 
understand it was upsetting for Mrs B to find out that the equity in her property wasnt as 
much as she thought it would be when she came to sell. But, for the reasons Ive explained, 
and whilst I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman