DRN-2849068
The complaint
Mr J has complained about a personal loan he took out with Everyday Lending Limited. He 
says that Everyday shouldnt have lent to him as the loan was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr J took out a loan with Everyday for £4,001 over a period of 48 
months, with a monthly repayment of £200.95. The annual percentage rate for the loan was 
69.4%. Mr J said hed used the loan to settle his credit card. Mr J said Everyday shouldnt 
have given him the loan as he couldnt afford to repay it. He said theyd based their 
calculations on inaccurate information. And said hed £170 disposable income, but this 
wasnt sufficient to cover the repayment amount for the loan. 
Everyday said theyd carried out sufficient checks that showed Mr J had enough disposable 
income to cover his monthly repayments. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everydays checks werent proportionate. But she didnt agree that the 
loan was unaffordable or had been lent irresponsibly. 
Mr J didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. When 
someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to consider 
whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them the 
lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision 
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice to determine.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: 
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
This means Everyday in lending to Mr J are required to carry out a reasonable assessment 
of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so Everyday needed to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr J. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would 
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr J himself. 
Checks must also be proportionate considering the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current 
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr J had been 
thorough in the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account 
in deciding to lend to him.
I can see Everyday calculated Mr Js income and expenditure, using an amount for his 
income calculated on a year to date (YTD) basis of £2217.84. And his outgoings to creditors 
of £900.27. For his day to day expenditure they used Office of National Statistics data, £942. 
This would have left an outstanding balance of £174.62. The loan repayments for Mr Js 
Everyday loan was £200.95. More than he had in disposable income. But he said he 
intended to settle his credit card balance.
Ive looked at the credit history file seen by Everyday and this shows Mr J had five credit 
cards, two loans and two overdrafts. And while it seemed to show Mr J was keeping up his 
repayments, his outstanding debt balances on his accounts totalled in excess of £32,000. If 
hed settled one of his credit cards that had a balance around £4,000, this potentially gave 
him additional income of around £130. Adding this to the £174.62, would have left Mr J 
around £100 disposable income after his loan repayment was taken into account. But  think 
Everyday would have been aware that even after consolidating some of his debt  Mr J would 
have continued to be indebted with two other loans, at least four credit cards, and a couple 
of overdrafts, and this would have increased by over £9,000 (inclusive of interest) of new 
debt to Everyday.
Everyday based Mr Js income on a YTD basis, but theyd seen Mr Js bank statement for 
October 2018, that showed his actual income that month to be £1776.19, some £440 less 
that the figure they used as his income. It can also be seen from this bank statement that 
towards the end of the month, large transfers were taken out of the account. And the bank 
statements dont show all of Mr Js debt commitments. I cant see Everyday queried this or 
looked into what these transfers were for or how Mr J was paying back his credit card 
balances. From Mr Js credit file, it is evident he had more than one bank account, and I 
think Everyday should have looked into this. 
I have looked at Mr Js other bank accounts for several months from July 2018, both of 
which he had a £1,000 overdraft facility. For both accounts I can see Mr J was constantly 
using his overdraft facility and incurring daily overdraft fee charges.
Other factors which may show a high risk of a consumer experiencing financial difficulty 
include spending more than 25% of monthly income on credit. And based on Mr Js average 
salary of around £1750, his credit commitments of £900 would equate to around 50% of his 
monthly income.So, while on the surface it looked like Mr J could afford the loan, if he did settle a credit card 
balance,  I think Everyday should have done more before they lent to him as I think there 
was some doubt as to whether hed be able to maintain the repayments. And this is shown 
as by March 2019, Mr J had fallen into arrears and had agreed to the set-up of a debt 
management plan through an advisory service.
So, I dont think Everyday focussed on Mr J as a borrower and his specific circumstances. 
And I think they acted irresponsibly in providing Mr J a loan that incurred a high interest rate 
as I dont think theyd carried out sufficient checks to determine whether Mr J could sustain 
the repayments
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J accepted my provisional decision. 
Everyday havent provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr J has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I uphold this complaint and ask 
Everyday Lending Limited to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Js account from when it was opened;
treat any payments that Mr J has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this 
results in Mr J having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra should 
be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr J plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Js account after all adjustments have been 
made, then Everyday Lending Limited needs to come to a suitable repayment plan 
with Mr J to pay off the remaining amount; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Js credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Everyday Lending Limited must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax 
theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Everyday Lending Limited to act as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman