DRN-2397122
The complaint
Mr L complains that Simon Kershaw and Associates (SKA) mis-sold him a stocks and 
shares ISA when he wanted a no risk cash ISA investment. Mr L says that he has suffered a 
financial loss from the mis-sale of the investment.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr L met with an advisor at SKA to discuss his financial arrangements 
with a view to investing money that he had in his savings account. The advisor conducted a 
fact find and took Mr L through a personal financial questionnaire. The advisor also took Mr 
L through a risk profiling question to assess what level of risk Mr L was prepared to take.
Following this meeting, the advisor sent Mr L a Suitability Letter which summarised the 
details obtained from the visit and recommended that Mr L invest into a stocks and shares 
ISA. An initial amount of £15,240 was invested into the Prudential ProFund Growth Fund for 
the 2016/17 tax year.
Further investments of £15,000 in October 2017 and £20,000 in June 2018 were paid into 
the ISA making a total of £50,240 invested.
Following a disagreement with SKA in June 2019, Mr L contacted the agents who dealt with 
the investment. Later, Mr L contacted them again to get a balance on his investment and 
was told that the balance was £63,700. Mr L thought that the balance should be around 
£73,000 in value. At this point, Mr L was told by the agent that his investment was a stocks 
and shares ISA and not a cash ISA as he originally thought.
In October 2019, invested a further £15,000 into the ISA.
Mr L complained to SKA as he felt he had been mis-sold his investment. SKA investigated 
his complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong and did not uphold his 
complaint.
Unhappy with SKAs decision, Mr L referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator agreed with the decision of SKA and 
did not uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr L has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I wont be upholding his complaint. I understand that Mr L 
feels strongly about this matter and I will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
My role as an ombudsman is to review the information available to me and to assess the 
merits of the complaint and to check if SKA has acted fairly. Where there is doubt as to the 
evidence presented then I will decide based on what I believe to be the balance of 
probability.
When an advisor recommends an investment to a consumer it is important that they 
understand the personal and financial circumstances of that client in order that they can 
recommend investments that are suitable. I can see from the information on file that an 
advisor visited Mr L in late February 2017 to discuss his financial arrangements.
I acknowledge that I was not at the meeting between Mr L and the advisor from SKA so I 
cant say for certain what was discussed. I am basing my decision on the documentation 
available for review and what is likely to have been discussed based on the balance of 
probability. Mr L has said in his submission that there was a witness to this meeting, but I 
can only decide based on the submissions from Mr L and SKA.
I have reviewed a document called a Dynamic Planner Risk Profile. This document assesses 
the risk that a consumer is wishing to take by asking questions about their risk appetite. This 
document is signed by Mr L and dated 28 February 2017. The document records that Mr L 
had a risk level of 4.
A fact find questionnaire was also completed at the meeting which recorded the main 
personal and financial details for Mr L and his investment objectives. I can see that Mr Ls 
assets were recorded but his expenditure details were not captured. There is a note saying 
that Mr L did not wish to go into detail as he didnt think it was relevant. 
When an advisor is conducting a fact find they need to understand if the consumer can 
afford the investment. Although Mr L did not disclose his outgoings, I can see that the 
Suitability Letter that was sent, records that Mr L had savings of £75,000 so I think that Mr L 
could afford to invest.
The questionnaire also records Mr Ls attitude to risk and this is recorded as low -medium. 
The following description is noted:
You accept a low level of risk to capital in order to achieve greater growth potential than 
deposit type investments allow
Mr L has signed this questionnaire. Mr L has said that he wished a no risk investment but the 
risk rating that is selected says that you accept a low level of risk. Given that Mr L has 
signed the questionnaire I need to assume that he had read and understood it. 
The advisor sent a Suitability Letter to Mr L following the meeting and this is dated 1 March 
2017. The letter summarises the meeting and the following information is noted within the 
risks section of the letter:
Past performance is no guarantee of future returns
The price of shares and the income from them can fall as well as rise
These statements indicate that the investment recommended included shares. If the 
investment was a cash ISA there would be no investment risk and these statements would 
not be relevant.
Having reviewed the documentation available to me, I am satisfied that the fact find and 
suitability assessment was performed and I think that SKA adequately disclosed that Mr L 
was investing into a stocks and shares ISA. I acknowledge that Mr L feels strongly that he has a witness that can attest that the advisor 
was recommending a cash ISA and that Mr L wanted a cash ISA. While I have considered 
what Mr L has said, Im more persuaded by the evidence that SKA has supplied.]
As the documentation that I have reviewed refers to a stocks and shares ISA and Mr L has 
signed these forms, I think that on the balance of probability, Mr L knew, or should have 
known, that he was investing into a stocks and shares ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman