DRN-3666233
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr T with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £50,055.36.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. A decision about joining the BSPS2 needed to be 
made by 11 December 2017. This was later extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr T approached NTM in January 2018 for advice about his BSPS pension. NTMs notes of 
its initial contact with Mr T, on 2 January 2018, said he had elected not to join the BSPS2. 
And he was now looking for advice about what was best to do, and he was considering 
transferring to avoid his benefits entering the PPF.
NTM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives. 
Mr T was 25, single, in good health, with no dependents. He lived with family and was 
employed full time. His income exceeded his outgoings, he had savings of approximately 
£4,000 and debts of roughly £2,200. In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr T was 
also a member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme.
NTM says Mr T hoped to retire at age 57 as he considered his work environment to be 
potentially hazardous to his health and he wanted to minimise his exposure to this. Although 
he did expect to remain with his employer. It recorded that Mr T expected to need an income 
of approximately £1,800 per month in retirement. It said he wanted to maximise his pension, 
particularly the income in the early part of his retirement and have the flexibility to vary his 
pension for this purpose. NTM said Mr T had a financial adviser, but they didnt provide 
advice on DB transfers. It said Mr T had been arranging a transfer with another business. 
But that business had ceased work on DB pension transfers, which had prompted Mr T to 
contact NTM  after being introduced to it by his adviser. It said Mr T wanted to avoid his 
pension falling into the PPF and had chosen not to join the BSPS2 as there was a 
scepticism over whether it would happen or be sustainable and hed lost faith in his 
employer. 
NTM said Mr T believed his DB pension would likely form less than 20% of his retirement 
provisions and so it was not critical to his retirement plans and he felt the associated 
guarantees were not as important as they wouldve been if the potential pension were 
higher. It completed a questionnaire with Mr T about his attitude towards a transfer. This 
included ranking his priorities. And NTM recorded that increasing his pension was Mr Ts first 
priority, with its security second. NTM says Mr T indicated he was willing to take a significant 
level of risk to achieve his long-term goals. NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be very high. 
On 15 January 2018, NTM advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that a transfer 
gave Mr T the flexibility he wanted in terms of how he could take his pension benefits and 
the potential to access more tax-free cash (TFC). It allowed for the pension to be left to his 
extended family, which NTM said was important to Mr T. And it said Mr T wanted to break all 
ties with his employer, and a transfer gave him control over his pension and his own destiny 
in retirement, ensuring the decision could be made for his interests, whereas the scheme 
would make decisions for all members.
The suitability report said it understood Mr T may need time to considerer its contents, so 
NTM would contact him after a week. But the information Ive seen indicates that it in fact 
held a meeting with him the same day. And all of the application forms to enable the transfer 
to take place were signed at that time.
Mr T complained in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. NTM didnt uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. It said the only options Mr T had at the time of the advice were to move to 
the PPF or to transfer. And it felt a transfer was suitable as it was the most appropriate way 
to meet Mr Ts stated objectives.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. He said that he had no investment experience at 
the time of speaking to NTM and that it had told him, because of his age at the time, he 
could afford to take a higher level of risk. And so, he should indicate a willingness to do so. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023, explaining that I intended to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. This includes COBS 19.1.6G which says that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable, and should only be 
considered if it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in the consumers best 
interests.
The documentation from the point of sale and NTMs response to the complaint place a lot of 
focus on what NTM says Mr T thought he wanted to do going into the advice process. But 
the advice here shouldnt have been based on wish fulfilment. NTMs role wasnt to put in 
place what Mr T mightve thought he wanted. It was to give him clear, objective advice about 
what was in his best interests, particularly bearing in mind that the primary purpose of a 
pension is to provide the holders needs in retirement.
At the point Mr T spoke to NTM in January 2018, the deadline to opt into the BSPS2, 
22 December 2017, had passed. So, this was no longer an option for Mr T. And the BSPS 
was not going to continue as it was. The only options available to him were to move to the 
PPF with the BSPS or to transfer out. Nevertheless, having considered all of the relevant 
information, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ts best interests.
Financial viability 
NTM said that Mr T had a very high attitude to risk and identified with this during the advice 
process. And I can see that, during the fact-finding process, several questions were put to 
Mr T from which he was asked to select from a prepared list of answers. And he answered 
one of these to say he was happy to accept a higher degree of risk.
Mr T however says he was told by NTM that he could afford to take higher risk because he 
was relatively young at the time of the advice  so was prompted to indicate he was willing to 
do so, to support the advice. 
Having looked at the information from the time, Im not convinced that Mr T did have a very 
high attitude to risk. 
Mr T was young at the time, so had a long time before he could draw his pension benefits. 
This also meant he had longer to build up other pension provisions and that the guaranteed 
benefits of his BSPS pension were unlikely to represent the majority of his provisions at 
retirement. So, he had some capacity for loss. But that doesnt necessarily mean that he was 
a very high risk investor. And his age also meant that he didnt have as much financial 
experience as some other customers. Indeed, in the fact find, Mr T ticked a statement that 
said I have no knowledge of Investments whatsoever, and this would be my first 
investment. I think this lack of experience means it was unlikely that Mr T had sufficient 
knowledge to truly understand what being a high risk investor necessarily meant or to say 
that it was appropriate to categorise him as one.
This is further supported by the fact that, when asked to rank his priorities, he recorded that 
the security of his pension fund was second, out of seven. It is true that he said increasing 
his pension was of a greater priority. But security was still clearly important to him. And 
according to NTMs notes and the information from the time, part of his motivation for transferring was because of the problems the BSPS had encountered. And Mr T was 
concerned and even sceptical about what this meant for the security of his pension in the 
longer term. And this was why he apparently declined to enter the BSPS2  because he 
didnt think it would offer a sustainable alternative.
Also, when asked which from a list of statements reflected his attitude to risk, I can see he 
initially ticked average risk. This appears to have then been crossed through and amended 
too high  likely after further discussion with NTM. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im 
not convinced this did genuinely reflect his view. And I think indicates his thoughts on risk 
were not as set in stone as NTM suggests. And it is also interesting that very high was an 
option in that form, and that option was not selected.
The time he had until retirement, and the ability this gave him to both invest longer term and 
to accrue other pension benefits means I think his attitude to risk mayve been slightly higher 
than average. But on balance, I dont think Mr T was a very high risk investor as NTM has 
said. And this is relevant to the financial viability of the transfer  by which I mean how likely 
it was that Mr T would be better off in terms of the retirement income he would receive, by 
transferring.
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator). This 
included a calculation of how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as he was entitled to under the BSPS (the critical yield).  
Again though, remaining in the BSPS, as it was, wasnt an option for Mr T. So, in his specific 
circumstances, the relevant comparison was to the benefits he couldve achieved through 
the PPF. 
The TVAS did include estimates of what Mr T would be entitled to under the PPF and the 
critical yields required to replicate these benefits. It estimated that at age 65, Mr T could 
receive an annual pension starting at £5,040.01 or TFC of £26,902.87 and a reduced 
starting pension of £4,035.43. The critical yields required to match these benefits were 
4.93% and 4.76% respectively.
NTM also analysed what Mr T would potentially be entitled to take at age 60. It said in its 
suitability report that, although Mr T was interested in retiring at age 57, it hadnt been 
provided information by the scheme trustees to enable it to calculate the benefits that could 
be drawn at 57. So, it had instead looked at what could be drawn at age 60. Im not sure that 
this was necessarily a relevant alternative if Mr T had truly intended to retire at 57. And I 
dont see that NTM wouldve been prevented from looking at what the PPF would offer from 
age 57, even if the BSPS trustees hadnt provided information. But nevertheless, Ive 
considered the information. The TVAS report said at age 60 the PPF was estimated to 
provide a pension of £4,081.02 per year or TFC of £22,562.81 and a reduced pension of 
£3,384.42. And the critical yields to match those benefits were 5.34% and 5.18% 
respectively.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for both 39 and 34 years to retirement  Mr T retiring at age 65 or 60. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, what 
Ive said about Mr Ts attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him, in this case offered by the PPF, only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was still marginally above 4.7% it appears for retiring at age 65, this was the 
best Mr T could expect  to only match the guarantees he was giving up. And, for retiring 
early, if this was genuinely an objective, I think Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than the PPF wouldve provided at retirement, as a result of transferring.
The business referred in its suitability report to cash flow models and other measures that it 
said indicated that, if Mr T achieved consistent growth of 5%, he could draw equivalent 
benefits to those he was giving up on a flexible basis, and the fund would last beyond his life 
expectancy. And it said the past performance of the fund it was recommending indicated this 
could be achieved.
But those models relied on 5% being achieved year on year. This was not guaranteed and, if 
there were a downturn or Mr T didnt draw benefits equivalent to those he was giving up  
which NTM argued was his intention, the fund wouldve been likely to run out much sooner. 
Also, as NTM will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
Taking all of this into account from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer out 
of the DB scheme was in Mr Ts best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
NTM has said that Mr T wanted to retire at age 57 and expected to need £1,800 per month 
in retirement (although I note the suitability report appears to have quoted a figure of £1,000 
per month, even though this is inconsistent with the rest of the documentation provided). And 
it also said he was interested in maximising the TFC available, so he could travel in the early 
years of his retirement and in being able to vary his income. But again, it wasnt NTMs role 
just to put in place what Mr T mightve believed he wanted. It was to provide him objective 
advice about what was in his best interests  even if that went against what he thought he 
wanted.
At the time of taking advice, Mr T was 25. It was over 32 years until his apparent intended 
retirement or when hed be able to begin drawing benefits. I dont doubt that Mr T mayve 
aspired to retire early. I think, when asked, most people would say they would like to retire 
early. And he mayve looked at what colleagues around him, who were at the age they could 
draw pension benefits, were doing and that this mightve appealed to him. But, for the 
majority, early retirement means a significant drop in income. Which would dramatically 
reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As a result, when faced with 
that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. And with so much 
of his working life still to go  in which time his circumstances would almost certainly have 
changed significantly, and his aims and objectives were also likely to alter  I dont think he 
couldve realistically made any kind of firm decision about this. Mr T would also have been entitled to take benefits early under the PPF. So, if he had 
reached retirement age, some 30 plus years later, and still wanted to retire early, hed have 
been able to draw benefits from this pension. It is true that under the PPF these benefits 
would be quite rigid in how they were provided. But its entirely possible, as his 
circumstances changed over the years, that when Mr T came to retire, he mayve wanted 
certainty around at least some of his retirement income.
The benefits under the PPF would not have provided Mr T with the income of £1,800 per 
month that he was looking for. But as Ive explained, I dont think he was likely to improve on 
these benefits by transferring. So, hed have always likely had to rely on other provisions he 
built up to achieve this level of income. 
The PPF benefits wouldve provided a guaranteed, escalating pension that couldve been 
used to form a base for meeting his income needs. This couldve been supplemented by the 
other pension benefits Mr T built up over the 32 years between the advice and retiring, if he 
in fact did retire early. And these other provisions couldve been used flexibly to meet his 
objectives of taking a varied income and TFC in the unlikely event they remained entirely the 
same, while he also had the guaranteed underlying benefit of the PPF.
Overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests to make an irreversible decision to 
transfer his pension at the point he did and give up the guaranteed escalating benefits hed 
have been entitled to, just to have flexibility that he didnt necessarily need. Particularly as, 
given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think any plans he might have had 
about retirement were reliable or set in stone.
Death benefits
NTM said, as Mr T didnt have a spouse, he was interested in the alternative death benefits 
available by transferring, so he could leave any pension fund to his extended family. Death 
benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through 
a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. 
And again, Mr T was only 25 at the time he took advice. His circumstances were likely to 
change. He couldve gotten married, significantly before he came to retire, and gone on to 
have children. This wouldve resulted in the spouses and dependents pension which I 
understand the PPF wouldve provided, being useful to Mr Ts family if he predeceased 
them. The spouses pension in particular was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And so, given Mr Ts age and that he was in good health, I dont think 
discounting the potential value of these benefits was appropriate. In any event, NTM should 
not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
NTM said it had considered whole of life insurance as an alternative way of meeting Mr Ts 
apparent objective of leaving a legacy to his extended family. But it had discounted this 
based on the premiums of approximately £28 per month being too expensive. Based on 
Mr Ts income and expenditure figures though, which indicated he had over £1,000 per 
month in disposable income, I dont think discounting this was appropriate. And I certainly 
dont think this meant that transferring to achieve alternative death benefits was in Mr Ts 
best interests.Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
NTM said Mr T wanted control over how his pension was invested and his own destiny in 
retirement. But it was recorded that Mr T had no prior investment experience at all. So, I 
cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And I think his desire for this has been overstated and may not have been 
a genuine objective.
Rather, I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. Its clear 
that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. And, in Mr Ts case, this seems to 
have been so pronounced as to have already resulted in him opting not to join the BSPS2.
I also dont doubt Mr T had heard negative things about the PPF. And the immediate 
reduction in benefits that hed have incurred in moving to the PPF may likely have played a 
part in why he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. However, it was 
NTMs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. 
NTM has said that Mr T wanted a clean break from his employer and had lost faith in its 
management of the pension. But I note he still worked for them and indicated he had no 
intention of changing jobs. And he also was a member of its new pension scheme. So, he 
wasnt obtaining a clean break. In any event the PPF was entirely separate to the BSPS. 
And I think that NTM shouldve reassured Mr T that moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning 
as he thought. I dont think he had firm retirement plans, but under the PPF couldve still 
taken benefits early. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still 
have provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any 
investment risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I 
dont think he was likely to be substantially better off by transferring, such that taking this risk 
was in his interests. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to NTM 
recommending Mr T transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Suitability of investments
NTM recommended that Mr T invest in a specific managed fund with the recommended 
pension provider. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of 
the investment recommendation. This is because Mr T should have been advised to remain 
in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But again, 
NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand Mr Ts circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from 
the consultation and his unconfirmed plans for retirement from his genuine needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was unlikely, in my view, 
to improve his retirement benefits and had no other particular reason to transfer which would 
justify giving up these guarantees. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer to a personal pension. And I think NTM shouldve recommended that he not transfer 
and instead move to the PPF.
Of course, I have to think about whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against NTM's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully.
By the time Mr T contacted NTM he had already decided not to opt into joining the BSPS2.  
And NTM says hed already taken advice from another business about transferring out of the 
BSPS and had only not done so because that other business had ceased advising on DB 
transfers during the advice process. I havent seen what that other business said to Mr T but 
based on what NTM has suggested it appears to have been along the lines that a transfer 
was appropriate. I accept that Mr T is an adult and plainly capable of making his own 
decisions. But I cant rule out the possibility that the other advice influenced Mr Ts decision 
to not join the BSPS2 and mightve impacted his thoughts on the PPF and his apparent 
preference to transfer. And ultimately here NTM recommended that Mr T transfer, and I think 
he relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on transferring, against NTMs advice. I say 
this because Mr T was an inexperienced investor. At the time, this pension accounted for the 
majority of his private retirement provisions and, Mr T indicated, while hed like to increase 
his pension benefits if possible, the security of these benefits was important to him. So, if 
NTM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. Im 
not persuaded that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had been recommended and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable 
for him or in his best interests. So, I dont think Mr T would have insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice.
Our Investigator also recommended that NTM pay Mr T £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Ive thought about whether this is fair. Although the advice was given 
several years ago, I dont think Mr T has been caused ongoing distress by it until he brought 
his complaint. As until that time, he seems to have thought that the advice was in his 
interests. At the same time thought I dont doubt that Mr T has been caused distress and 
concern by finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious 
this upset wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I 
think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
NTM did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr T said he had no further information to provide or add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided anything further for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised above, based on the available information and evidence, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ts best interests 
and I think NTM shouldve recommended that he not transfer and instead join the PPF. And I 
think Mr T wouldve accepted that advice.
As a result, I think NTM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulators defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And in addition, it should 
pay him £300 for the distress caused. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF, as 
the option to join the BSPS2 was no longer available to him, if suitable advice had been 
given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the inputs into the 
calculator on.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, NTM should pay Mr T £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman