DRN-3173634
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
the termination of his hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
On 20 April 2019 Mr G was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £7,995 over 36 months, with monthly payments of £264.72.
Mr G said that his income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and 
that he was struggling to maintain the payments to the agreement. He said that he was 
unable to contact VWFS about this and, in June 2020, he stopped making payments.
VWFS sent Mr G arrears letters and, in August 2020, they sent him a default notice. Which 
said that, if he failed to pay the arrears, they would terminate the agreement and take back 
the car. Mr G didnt pay the arrears, and VWFS terminated the agreement. They also 
instructed a third party, which Ill call X, to collect the car. When X contacted Mr G to collect 
the car in October 2020, Mr G told VWFS that he could now afford to start making payments 
and wanted to keep the car. But VWFS told him this was no longer an option.
VWFS also told Mr G that he should wait to hear from them, as they were awaiting guidance 
from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about terminations. VWFS didnt contact Mr G 
and, when X contacted him in February 20201 about collecting the car, he complained to 
VWFS. VWFS said that theyd correctly terminated the agreement, but theyd given him 
incorrect information about waiting for guidance from the FCA. For which they apologised.
Mr G wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that VWFS had acted reasonably by terminating the agreement, 
because of the arrears. And she didnt think that the misinformation VWFS had given Mr G 
about the FCA guidance changed things. She acknowledged that it was difficult to contact 
VWFS by phone in early 2020, because of the impact on their business by the Covid-19 
pandemic. But she said that VWRS were also contactable by email and through an online 
form. And, while Mr G has said that he completed this form, shed seen no evidence that this 
was done and sent to VWFS. So, she didnt think VWFS needed to do anything more.
VWFS accepted the investigators view, but Mr G didnt. He said that, while he accepted 
VWFS had correctly followed their processes, he didnt receive their letters within a 
reasonable time  they werent sent by recorded delivery or by some other method of signed 
for post. And he thinks this is the same as VWFS not receiving the online form he completed 
through their website.
Mr G said that, to resolve his complaint, he wants to come to an arrangement with VWFS to 
be able to keep the car and start making payments towards the outstanding balance. 
Especially because he maintained all of the payments under the agreement until he was 
affected by the pandemic. And hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr G was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter VWFS sent Mr G, dated 3 July 2020. This explained he was 
£529.44 in arrears (the equivalent of 2 months) and they asked him to contact them about 
this. VWFS also provided the number for a dedicated phone line where he could speak to 
their collections department. This letter was followed up on 9 July 2020 by a reminder letter.
VWFS sent Mr G a Default Notice dated 5 August 2020. This explained that he was in 
arrears by £794.16 (the equivalent of 3 months), and that he needed to pay this by no later 
than 24 August 2020. And, if he didnt, VWFS had the right to terminate the agreement and 
repossess the car.
VWFS sent Mr G a further letter, dated 7 October 2020, advising him that the arrears were 
now £1,323.60 (the equivalent of five months). And, as he hadnt contacted them about this, 
the matter was being passed to X. They provided the contact details for X and asked that he 
either return the car or settle the agreement in full. In a separate letter the same day, VWFS 
also told Mr G that theyd terminated the agreement.
VWFS have also said that they tried to call Mr G, but they didnt have his correct number. Mr 
G has confirmed that this was the case, as hed changed his number and not updated 
VWFS. VWFS also said that they didnt have Mr Gs email address on file, something Mr G 
disputes. And he provided a copy of an email they sent him on 23 April 2019 as proof of this.
In an email dated 9 March 2021, Mr G said that the letter from VWFS in august, and the one 
from the debt collectors in September, which were both received at the very end of 
September. And hes said that the other letters VWFS sent him were received in October. 
But, in an email of 1 November 2021, Mr G said that it wasnt until the 2nd week in October 
2019 that he received the august/September letters. And he didnt contact VWFS until 12 
October 2020. Mr G also said that, by cancelling the direct debit, he thought VWFS would 
contact me when I needed to take action.
Mr G has provided conflicting information about when he received the letters from VWFS. 
And Im inclined to believe his recollection of March 2021, as it took place nearer to the 
event than his recollection of November 2021, which was more than a year later.So, I think its more likely than not that Mr G didnt receive the arrears letter of 3 July 2020, 
or the reminder letter of 9 July 2020, even though he knew hed missed payments and was 
waiting for VWFS to contact him. I also think its more likely than not that Mr G received the 
Default Notice in late-September 2020. And while this was after the date hed been asked to 
make payment by, crucially VWFS hadnt terminated the agreement at this point. But it 
wasnt until Mr G received the termination and transfer of his account to X letters in October 
2020 that he contacted VWFS. By which point the agreement had been terminated. And it 
was too late.
Theres a disagreement over whether VWFS had Mr Gs email address on file or not. But I 
dont consider this to be relevant. VWFS have a requirement to send any Notice of Arrears 
or Default Notice by post. So, they couldnt have emailed these to Mr G instead. And the 
letters they couldve sent by email, for example the termination letter or the transfer to X 
letter, were sent by post and received by Mr G. Because of this, the email address has no 
bearing on the complaint.
Ive also seen that Mr B has commented on the difficulties he had getting through to VWFS 
to discuss the situation. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. 
Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS wouldve 
needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, 
VWFS experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr B trying to get through to VWFS, I dont 
think VWFS did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control.
But VWFS did put different options in place for customers to contact them during these 
difficult times  they could email or use an online form. Mr B has said that the online form 
should be treated the same way as the letters VWFS sent him. But I disagree. The 
difference with electronic communications is that there are automatic records of both 
sending and receiving. And VWFS have said that completed and sent online forms were 
automatically emailed to them.
I havent seen any evidence that VWFS received the online form Mr G says he completed. 
And Mr G hasnt been able to provide any proof that it was sent, for example any 
acknowledgement. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr G either didnt complete all of 
the online form, or didnt correctly complete the online form, so it didnt get sent to VWFS 
when he tried to do this. And I cant say that VWFS did anything wrong by not actioning 
something they didnt receive.
Given the above, Im satisfied that VWFS acted correctly when terminating Mr Gs 
agreement. And I dont think it was unreasonable for them to tell Mr G that he couldnt 
continue with the agreement after it had been terminated. I appreciate that VWFS gave Mr G 
some misinformation in October 2020, but Im satisfied that Mr G didnt suffer any detriment 
as a result  the repossession of the car was put on hold until February 2021, which allowed 
Mr G to continue to use it throughout this period. So, Im satisfied that the apology VWFS 
gave was sufficient and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman