DRN-1685868
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to use his overdraft to gamble, 
which he feels should not be permitted. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr O and HSBC, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
Mr O has a bank account with HSBC with an agreed overdraft of £3,000. In 2016 his 
overdraft reached its limit, which he says was due to his gambling. In the subsequent years 
Mr O says he reduced the overdraft debt but then in 2019 he gambled again and the 
overdraft increased once more. Mr O feels that HSBC should have prevented him from using 
his overdraft to deposit cash into online gambling platforms, and as they didnt, he ought to 
be compensated.
Barclays looked into his complaint but rejected it, as they considered they had not made any 
error in authorising Mr Os transactions.
Mr O was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so brought his complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think HSBC had 
acted unfairly towards Mr O and didnt require HSBC to do anything further. Mr O didnt 
agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all their 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies.
The first important point to make is that an overdraft facility provides a customer with access 
to borrowed funds, but that said, the customer is entitled to spend those funds on whatever 
they like. If they wish to gamble then they are free to do so and the bank cannot immediately stop them because there is nothing legally wrong in gambling. The banks can do something 
with debit cards, by imposing restrictions on the card  but that is not the case here.
But if a bank knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer positively, sympathetically and fairly, so the question arises as to what HSBC knew 
about Mr O's circumstances. In this case there is no evidence that Mr O went to the bank 
and asked them for their help in restricting his use of his overdraft. So without that 
knowledge HSBC would have limited information about whether Mr O was experiencing 
financial difficulty. I accept that Mr O's transaction history shows deposits to gambling sites, 
but this wouldnt of itself have demonstrated financial difficulty to HSBC. People do gamble 
without running into such difficulty. 
In Mr Os case, the picture from 2016 shows that Mr O did run up to the limit of his overdraft 
but then he paid it off. As our investigator has said, many people operate their finances by 
use of a continued overdraft facility and there is nothing wrong in that. And that is what Mr O 
was doing, albeit he was choosing to use it in part to fund his gambling. So the fact that he 
was in overdraft and that he managed to pay it off would demonstrate that he wasnt actually 
in financial difficulty because he was managing that debt. I can see from Mr Os statements 
that it was not until the 14 November 2019 that he began to make multiple deposits to the 
online platforms. By my calculation, these deposits were just under £2,200, and received into 
his account was £1,350. But despite that deteriorating position through November Mr O did 
not ask for any help from HSBC, until he made his complaint on the 9 December. So I cant 
say that it would have been reasonable to expect HSBC to have intervened and stopped the 
transactions as there didnt appear to be any gambling difficulties.
I appreciate Mr O feels HSBC have acted irresponsibly in allowing him to use his overdraft 
for gambling, but for the reasons I have explained, I must disagree. So, although Mr O will 
probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding his complaint. 
Mr O has raised two issues which I cant deal with. The first is with regard to an overdraft 
reduction warning message he was given online. I cant look at that complaint because he 
never raised that with HSBC, and so they havent been able to respond to the complaint. 
The second relates to HSBC not reviewing his overdraft limit every 12 months. Again, as 
hes not made that complaint to HSBC, I cant look at it for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman