DRN-2872547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
wont pay their claim for damage to their septic tank and soakaway under their home 
insurance policy.
I will refer to all agents and representatives as Fairmead throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said that following a period of severe rain and flooding the septic tank and 
soakaway blocked up. Mr and Mrs H made a claim and experts were appointed to inspect 
and validate the claim. Fairmead arranged for the tank to be emptied and said the septic 
tank was functioning normally. It also said the water table was very high. It went on to say 
the soakaway wasnt functioning correctly and it wasnt allowing the water to percolate into 
the surrounding ground at a sufficient rate. The expert said this meant the septic tank was 
filling above its normal operating levels and causing it to back up. Fairmead said this meant 
there was no evidence of accidental damage, no insurable issues and it declined the claim. 
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator said as part of the checks 
carried out by experts on behalf of Fairmead it had the septic tank emptied so it could 
investigate further. But no damage was found so there was no evidence of physical damage 
or accidental damage. He said the policy didnt cover clearance of blockages which 
Mr and Mrs H got their own contractor to do later when a further blockage occurred. So, our 
investigator said Fairmead had acted reasonably when it declined the claim. Mr and Mrs H 
said it should be considered as a storm claim. Our investigator did this but didnt think the 
damage was consistent with a storm claim.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the key evidence in this case is noted within the final response from Fairmead. This 
referred to the expert inspection of the septic tank after it had been emptied. A CCTV 
investigation found no identifiable defects and went on to confirm that the tank was 
functioning as it should. The experts also conducted dye testing of the surface water system 
and this revealed  that there  was no cross  connections  into the foul system.
The experts  went  on to say the soakaway  wasnt  working  effectively,  and water  
wasnt  percolating  into the ground.  It said this was why the tank was full beyond  its 
normal  capacity  and why the system  had been  backing  up. The experts  further  
highlighted  that there  was a high water  table  in the area  and this was also having  an 
impact.
The experts  were  clear  that there  was no sign or evidence  of accidental  damage  
and no insurable  causes.  The policy cover for accidental damage refers to A single and 
sudden unexpected event resulting in physical damage and Fairmead found no evidence of 
this. I think thats a reasonable outcome.
After  this Mr and Mrs H asked  Fairmead  to deal with the claim  under  the 
storm/flood/weight  of snow  section  of the policy.  And while  this was being  
considered  Mr and Mrs H got their own contractor  in to deal with a blockage  at the 
outlet.  They  then provided  Fairmead  with the bill for repairs  of £1,500  confirming  the 
tank was now working  again . Fairmead confirmed there was still no cover available under 
the policy as there was no insurable cause. It said the investigations by the contractor hadnt 
led to a need for the policy to operate and there was also no cover for the cost of 
investigations carried out.
I think the evidence in the expert report is persuasive. I dont think Ive seen anything from 
Mr and Mrs H or their contractor that outweighs the expert findings from Fairmead. I think it 
did reconsider the claim in line with the storm/flood/weight of snow section but still there was 
no evidence to change its mind on the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman