DRN-4324074
The complaint
Miss N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt refunded her after she 
reported shed been the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2022 Miss N wanted some building work carried out at her home. She used a 
website especially designed to help locate reliable tradespersons. She was put in touch with 
a builder whom Ill refer to as Mr E, the director of a limited company.
Miss N discussed the job with Mr E and received a quote for works to be carried out, 
including: the building of walls, a garage, and the laying of a driveway. A price was agreed 
alongside a payment plan. Miss N was to pay a 33% deposit of £3,300 upfront, followed by 
another 33% payment once the foundations for structures had been laid. The final payment 
was due on completion of all works.
The work started as agreed in early February 2022, following Miss Ns initial payment. As 
work progressed Miss N made the second payment of £3,300. 
Miss N says once the second payment was made little to no more work was carried out. 
Some walls had been built and some other materials delivered, but her property was left in a 
very bad state. Miss N kept trying to communicate with Mr E, but he refused to return to 
complete the work, or to return any of her money.
Miss N has since had other builders provide quotes to complete the work. Theyve said the 
work that had been carried out by Mr E was of a poor quality and would have to be redone. 
As Mr E refused to complete the work or return the money, and given the standard of the 
work that had been completed, Miss N contacted Halifax to say shed been scammed. She 
sought a return of her money through the bank.
Halifax considered Miss Ns claim but said it couldnt help. It felt Miss N had a civil dispute 
with Mr E and his company, rather than it being a case of her having been scammed.
Miss N disagreed and so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at what had happened and found Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably. She 
acknowledged Miss N hadnt gotten what shed paid for, but agreed with Halifaxs 
assessment that Miss Ns situation was a civil matter and there was nothing for the bank to 
do differently.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss N further but Im not upholding her complaint, and for broadly the 
same reasons as our investigator. I find she has a civil dispute with the builder, rather than 
this being a case of her being the victim of a scam.
I can tell Miss N is in a difficult and challenging situation. And I can see how these events will 
have left her shaken and emotionally affected, not to mention the financial impact. But I cant 
say theres anything more Halifax ought to have done. 
Has Miss N been the victim of a scam?
Halifax is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Broadly speaking, the Code looks to see victims of scams reimbursed in most 
circumstances. But for the provisions of the Code to apply, the payments that are part of the 
dispute must be within scope. Importantly, the Code states:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
I dont doubt that Miss N has been poorly treated by Mr E. Its clear that he didnt finish the 
work, and it seems very unlikely he did all he was paid to. I can also accept that the work 
that was completed was of poor quality. But thats not the same as Miss N having been 
scammed, though Im sure to her it very much feels that way. Mr Es actions must feel 
calculated and deliberate. But the available evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr E 
was a legitimate builder with a legitimate business at the time Miss N paid him. The dispute 
between the two parties has arisen after a contract was agreed and work carried out. Im not 
persuaded Mr E set out to defraud Miss N.
It is the case that Mr E was sole director of the limited building company that was contracted 
to undertake work for Miss N. That business was registered on Companies House, albeit it is 
now dissolved. The company also had online reviews, suggesting work had been carried out 
for other customers and that those customers were happy with the quality of the work. This 
speaks to the legitimate nature of the business. 
Ive thought about the fact the Mr Es business is now dissolved and that he has started new 
ones. Miss N has said this helps demonstrate his deceptive nature and his intent to scam 
her. Whilst I can see where shes coming from here, Im not persuaded this presents strong 
enough evidence that Mr E was not a legitimate tradesman at the time Miss N paid him.
Miss N was contacted by Mr E after using a website set up to connect clients with verified 
tradesmen. The website states it carries out checks to make sure those registered with it are 
legitimate. I cant be sure of exactly what checks were carried out by the website or the 
thoroughness of them. But applying to be registered with such a service does not match the 
actions of a deliberate fraudster that would go on to target just one person.
Weve spoken to the bank that held the current account for Mr Es business. Its confirmed 
there have been no other customers raising scam claims. Had Mr E set out to deliberately 
scam Miss N Id consider it likely he would have done the same to other people, probably 
around the same time. But theres no evidence of that.
I can also see that work was carried out at Miss Ns home. I appreciate whats been said 
about the quality of that work, and I know its incomplete. But if Mr E had been out to steal 
from Miss N from the outset I dont consider as much work would have been carried out as 
has been. It seems from the descriptions and photos provided by Miss N that work continued 
for some time after she made the second payment. That payment was due after foundations 
were laid, and the work completed includes the building of walls upon those foundations. I 
dont think someone that had decided to scam a client would continue to carry out works after theyd received the money into their account.
Ive also considered the text messages between Miss N and Mr E. We dont seem to have a 
complete record of all conversations. And Im conscious some would have been in person or 
over the phone. So I cant say exactly what happened. But there is evidence to support a 
breakdown in the relationship between Mr E and Miss N. I cant fairly rule this out as a 
reason for work not being completed. 
In evidence of this there is a message from Mr E to Miss N on 22 February 2022 which says, 
Due to unrealistic demands alienating my staff and unnecessary stress I have spoke [sic] to 
my advisor and I will not be returning to to [sic] your job. All contact from know [sic] should 
be through written communication. I.e email or representation. 
There are also some messages which suggest a falling out between Mr E and some of the 
people that worked with him. Mr E asks Miss N if he can have a colleague on site call him, to 
which Miss N replies Dont think he wants to speak to you. This is on 19 February 2022, 
when work was well underway, but close to the point at which no further progress was made.
It seems there were a number of factors at play here that led to Mr E not completing the 
work he was contracted to. His decision to breach the contract and not repay Miss N might 
well be judged to be unfair. But it doesnt support that Miss N has been the victim of a scam 
that Halifax ought now to reimburse her loss. 
Is there anything else Halifax ought fairly and reasonably to have done?
I dont find that Halifax ought to have questioned Miss N about the payments she was 
making. And, even if it had, Im not persuaded it would have made any difference. Shed 
found the builder on a legitimate website used for (at least trying to) secure trusted 
tradespersons. He appeared well reviewed online. Shed met Mr E, he seemed 
knowledgeable and provided a reasonable quotation for the work. There was also a 
reasonable schedule for payments. And those payments were going to a legitimate business 
account that matched the name given by Mr E.
So even if Halifax did question the payments, it seems there was little to cause alarm and it 
seems more likely than not Miss N would have proceeded to make them anyway.
I should also say here that, because Im not persuaded a scam has taken place, industry 
best practice on customer protection and the provisions within the CRM Code around scam 
warnings dont apply. 
Following on from that point, because a scam hasnt taken place, Halifax were unable to 
seek a return of Miss Ns funds from the receiving bank. So I dont find it acted unfairly in not 
pursuing recovery there. 
conclusions
Ive considered all the aspects of Miss Ns complaint alongside all the evidence supplied by 
her, the bank, and other third parties. Having done so Ive found Halifax has acted fairly and 
reasonably in not refunding Miss N.      
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman