DRN-4184447
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined her claim 
on her home insurance policy for lost jewellery. 
What happened
Following a party, Mrs G said she removed her earrings, bracelet and ring and placed them 
on the bedside table. A few days later Mrs G was unable to locate the items of jewellery and 
searched around her home for them. As she was unable to find the jewellery she claimed on 
her policy with LV. She said she thought she must have accidently thrown out the jewellery 
when removing cotton pads from her bedside table. 
LV reviewed the claim and asked for proof of the loss. Mrs G provided invoices and 
valuations for the jewellery, she also provided photos of her wearing the items. LV spoke 
with the jeweller Mrs G had bought the items from but had some concerns over the claim 
and so turned it down. It said Mrs G hadnt sufficiently evidenced her loss and raised other 
concerns. These included: incorrect information provided on the valuations from the jeweller; 
valuations dated after the date Mrs G said shed lost the jewellery; the jeweller denying 
speaking with Mrs G when asked by the insurer; and Mrs G not having the items insured 
several months prior to insuring with LV. 
Mrs G didnt think this was fair and complained. LV reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold 
it, so Mrs G referred her complaint here. She said shed provided evidence of purchasing the 
items and the valuations were done to get an up-to-date value. She also said shed provided 
photos of her wearing the jewellery and explained that prior to taking this policy out shed 
been unable to insurer the jewellery due to being in temporary accommodation but said she 
had insured it on her previous policy before that. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that LV wasnt satisfied that Mrs G had shown the jewellery was in her possession during the 
time the policy was in place. She therefore thought it had acted fairly by declining the claim 
as Mrs G hadnt shown an insured event had occurred. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said it was clear shed lost her jewellery and shed provided 
purchase evidence along with photos of her wearing it and witnesses details to confirm she 
had it at the time of loss. 
As Mrs G didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A fundamental and basic principle of insurance is that the onus is on the insured (Mrs G) to 
show an insured event has occurred. Once this has been done the burden would fall to the 
insurer to decline a claim under the policy terms, if it thinks the claim isnt covered. 
In this case LV said its not satisfied Mrs G has shown an insured event has occurred. Put 
simply it doesnt dispute Mrs G has lost her jewellery, just that it doesnt think Mrs G has 
shown the jewellery was most likely lost during the time it was insured with LV. Mrs G has 
disputed this and provided invoices, valuations, and photographs of the lost items. 
Ive reviewed the information provided and Im not persuaded LV has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because the photos Mrs G has provided are all taken before the 
policy with LV started, the invoices are also from when the policy started. LV has also 
pointed out that before this policy started there was a gap in insurance for the items. Then 
the items were lost a few months into the policy and Mrs G then didnt claim for them until 
around two months later. So, when taking everything LV has said and the concerns raised 
about the claim into account, Im satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.  
Ive considered carefully the points put side by both parties, in particular Mrs Gs comments 
about LVs concerns. While I understand this will be a disappointing for Mrs G. Im not 
persuaded LV has done anything wrong by declining the claim for the reasons it has. I 
understand Mrs G has said there are witnesses who were at the party and could corroborate 
that she was wearing the jewellery. However, for the reasons explained above Im not 
persuaded LV has done anything wrong by saying its not satisfied Mrs G has shown she 
had the jewellery in her position and lost it during the time the policy was in place. Im 
therefore not going to tell LV to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman