DRN-3278843
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc didnt help recover the money she lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
Mrs K saw an advert online for an investment company, Ill refer to as I. It was endorsed by 
a reputable TV personality, who gives financial advice. So in May 2019, Mrs K agreed to 
opening a trading account with I and in good faith made two payments totalling £1,250 using 
her Santander Visa debit card. These payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange 
called J. 
Mrs K changed her mind when she learned the trading was not automated, as advertised. 
She decided she no longer wanted to invest with I and asked for a refund. Mrs K received a 
response with instructions on how to submit a withdrawal request and was told these are 
processed within seven to ten working days. 
Mrs K also complained to J. It explained that it is a cryptocurrency exchange. It is not 
affiliated with I. It completed the order and provided bitcoin for the payments received and 
transferred it to the wallet details provided. It advised Mrs K to contact and ask the receiver 
to return the bitcoin to her wallet with J. Once received it could return her funds.
After several unsuccessful attempts at trying to resolve matters directly with I and J, Mrs K 
asked Santander to raise chargeback claims on her behalf. Ultimately Santander attempted 
chargeback claims which were successfully defended by J. It decided not to take the claims 
any further. It has also apologised and paid Mrs K a total of £65 in compensation  which 
she accepted  for the delays in raising her claims and for not keeping her updated on the 
progress of these.
Mrs K referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. In summary he didnt think that Santanders decision to not 
pursue the chargeback further was unreasonable, and he also didnt think there were any 
other reasons why Santander should refund Mrs Ks losses.  
Mrs K didnt agree. She asked for the matter to be reviewed again, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs K. But Ill explain why.
Firstly, I am sorry to hear that its been a difficult time for Mrs K. I can understand she wants 
to do all she can to try and recover the money she has lost, however, simply being the victim 
of a scam doesnt entitle Mrs K to a refund. Where authorised payments (albeit under 
deception) have been made by Mrs K, using her Santander Visa debit card, the possible 
avenues for recovery through Santander are limited to a chargeback claim and/or where it 
can be fairly and reasonably concluded that it failed to prevent the loss or recover the 
money. 
I appreciate Mrs K was informed by a friend she could recover her money through 
chargeback. But it would be helpful for me to explain that chargeback isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It is a voluntary scheme. There is no obligation on a card issuer  here, 
Santander  to raise a chargeback claim. And where a claim is raised the card issuer is 
bound by the card scheme providers rules, which in this case is Visa. And if a claim is 
defended under the scheme rules the disputed funds remain with the merchant. However, 
just as we consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a 
reasonable chance of it succeeding. Similarly, if an initial chargeback claim is defended we 
consider that the card issuer should pursue the claim where appropriate to arbitration when 
 for example  the merchants defence appears weak and/or the cardholder was able to 
produce further strong supporting evidence. But I must be clear, that our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander ) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
I understand the nature of Mrs Ks claim to be that she has been scammed. Despite making 
several withdrawal requests to I, she has been unable to withdraw her funds. She says she 
never received any service from either I or J. She believes the firms are in collusion. She has 
tried to resolve the matter with both parties unsuccessfully.  But as the Investigator has 
previously set out, here the payments were made to J, and not to I directly. This means that 
a chargeback claim can only be considered against the merchant that received the funds 
(here J), and in relation to the service it provided. 
Our Investigator has also, in his view, already explained the relevant scheme rules in some 
detail and the possible reason codes under which Mrs Ks dispute could be raised. Both 
Mrs K and Santander have read the Investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, 
only that which forms the basis of my decision.
I can see Santander did correctly raise chargebacks for the disputed transactions. I 
recognise there was a delay in processing the claims, however, this has not impacted the 
outcome of the chargeback claims. Santander has apologised and awarded compensation 
for the delays, which Mrs K has accepted. The claims were defended, and J provided the 
relevant information required to remedy the chargeback disputes. And whilst I acknowledge 
that Mrs K was likely the innocent victim of a scam, J who took the payments are a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. As far as I can see J did not defraud Mrs K nor steal her money; 
nor put obstacles in the way of her withdrawing any funds. It seems to me that J simply did 
what was asked of it: in return for Mrs Ks payments, it exchanged and remitted an 
equivalent amount in bitcoin to the wallet address that it had been provided with. So for the 
purposes of chargeback Mrs K received the service she paid J for. 
In the absence of satisfactory evidence to challenge Js defence I dont think Santanders 
conclusion that the claims would likely not succeed at Visas final stage of arbitration, and its 
decision to not pursue the claims further is unreasonable. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under Visas chargeback 
scheme, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.For completeness, I also dont think there were any other reasons why Santander ought to 
have intervened in the payments at the time they were being made or that it needs to do 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and despite my sympathy for what Mrs K has been 
through, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman