DRN-3613393
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) not allowing them to extend their dog and cat insurance cover and declining a 
claim for cruciate ligament damage (having previously made a claim for the other cruciate 
ligament).
References to NFU include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S had a home and lifestyle insurance policy with NFU. In 2018 they added dog 
and cat insurance to the policy to provide cover for their dog. In 2019 they made a claim for 
treatment of one of the dogs cruciate ligaments, which NFU accepted. In 2021 the dog 
injured its other cruciate ligament. When Mr S and Mrs S made a claim for the cost of 
treatment (£1,200) NFU declined the claim, saying they didnt cover conditions previously 
claimed for (as Mr S and Mrs S hadnt taken out the permanent health cover option).
Unhappy at NFU declining their claim, Mr S and Mrs S complained to NFU. They said NFU 
should have told them that  having claimed for cruciate ligament treatment in 2019  cover 
wouldnt be provided for any subsequent cruciate ligament treatment, even though they said 
it was well-known dogs were susceptible to cruciate ligament damage. Mr S and Mrs S said 
NFU should have drawn their attention to the exclusion for future cruciate ligament treatment 
when they renewed the policy in 2020 (that is, after the first claim).
NFU didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Mr S and Mrs S 
added pet insurance cover to their existing home insurance policy in 2018, the option for 
permanent health extension cover was explained and offered to them (and included in the 
initial quote provided). But they said the option wasnt required, so the option was removed 
and the reduction in premium was highlighted to them. Documents confirming the addition of 
pet insurance cover (and the level of cover provided) was issued to Mr S and Mrs S. NFU 
also referred to subsequent renewal documents making it clear that without the permanent 
health option, cover for any condition was limited to 12 months from its first appearance and 
any new claims for the same condition thereafter would be excluded. Therefore, NFU said 
Mr S and Mrs S were aware any new claim for the same condition would be excluded.
Mr S and Mrs S then complained to this service. The main part of their complaint was that 
they were unhappy at having to pay the cost of treatment for the dogs other cruciate 
ligament. They thought NFU should pay the claim in full (or at least in part).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding NFU hadnt acted fairly. She concluded the 
dog and cat policy cover had been sold to Mr S and Mrs S on a non-advised basis by a 
representative of NFU, so she wouldnt expect NFU to have contacted Mr S and Mrs S after 
the first claim for treatment to check whether the level of cover remained appropriate. 
However, the investigator thought NFU hadnt done enough (either in the original policy 
documentation or subsequent policy renewal documentation) to make it clear to Mr S and 
Mrs S that the claim for treatment of one cruciate ligament (under the level of cover taken out 
by Mr S and Mrs S) would mean cover wasnt provided for any future treatment for damage 
to the other cruciate ligament (as a bilateral condition). Based on this, the investigator 
concluded it was unfair for NFU to decline the second claim for cruciate ligament damage. In 
addition, the investigator thought, based on opinion from Mr S and Mrs Ss vet, that the 
second cruciate ligament damage wasnt related to the first. So, they should be treated as 
two separate, unrelated conditions.
To put things right, the investigator thought NFU should consider the second claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (excluding the 12-month limit on claims for the 
same condition). If NFU accepted the claim, they should also pay interest on settlement of 
the claim from the date Mr S and Mrs S paid the cost of treatment to the date NFU settled the 
claim. NFU should also pay £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
NFU disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.  In disagreeing, NFU made several points. Firstly, they said the policy wording 
was clear (when defining the term condition) that bilateral conditions were covered. 
Secondly, they referred to policy wording on settlement of claims and on what wasnt 
insured, specifically on the term conditions, which they maintained supported their decline of 
the second claim (as a reoccurring condition). Thirdly, they didnt add separate 
endorsements to policies relating to specific exclusions. So, they wouldnt have added an 
endorsement to the policy at its renewal after the first claim that specifically excluded any 
future treatment for cruciate ligament damage. 
Fourthly, they didnt agree the two claims should be treated separately. While separate 
events, they thought it was the same condition, albeit affecting a different area of the body 
(the other cruciate ligament). They also said research suggested the same condition leading 
to cruciate ligament damage is often present in both legs (and up to 50% of dogs will suffer 
cruciate ligament damage to both legs within a one to two year period). Fifthly, even had Mr 
S and Mrs S added permanent health cover after the first claim, the second claim would still 
have been declined. That was because the condition would have been classified as pre-
existing at the point permanent health cover was added  so the second claim wouldnt have 
been covered, as it would have related to a pre-existing condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether NFU has acted fairly towards Mr S and Mrs S.
 
There are several aspects to Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint, when deciding whether NFU acted 
fairly in declining the second claim for cruciate ligament damage to their dog. Ill consider 
them in turn, together with the views, evidence and information put forward by Mr S and Mrs 
S and by NFU. 
When Mr S and Mrs S complained to NFU, a key issue for them was they thought they 
hadnt been made aware that (following the first claim for cruciate ligament damage) the 
level of cover theyd taken out would exclude any future claims for the same condition. For 
their part, NFU say Mr S and Mrs S were made aware of the differences between the two 
cover levels and choose not to take out the permanent health cover option. NFU also say the 
differences were highlighted in the policy documents confirming the addition of pet insurance 
cover when it was first taken out, as well as in subsequent renewal documents. These made 
it clear that without the permanent health option, cover for any condition was limited to 12 
months from its first appearance and any new claims for the same condition thereafter would 
be excluded. Having considered both views carefully, I agree with NFU on this issue. Looking at the policy 
terms and conditions issued when Mr S and Mrs S took out dog and cat insurance in 2018, 
under the heading Dog and cat  Vets fees theres a sub-heading What is insured that 
states (in relation to the costs of treatment):
We will continue to pay these costs for up to 12 months, after the date the accident 
happens or the illness or disease first appeared provided:
Treatment is in progress on the expiry date of the period of cover and;
The limits shown under How we will settle your claim are not exceeded.
If the Permanent health endorsement is shown on Your Schedule for Your Dog or 
Cat, We will pay these costs provided the limits shown under How we will settle your 
claim are not exceeded during each period of cover.
In addition, the same section has a sub-heading What is not insured that states (in relation to 
Costs you incur in respect of):
any illness, disease or condition which reoccurs after the last renewal date of this 
policy, unless the Permanent health endorsement is shown on your schedule.
Similar wording is included in the documentation issued at renewal (Ive seen the 2021 
renewal documentation). Taken together, I think these terms indicate clearly that  unless 
the permanent health endorsement (cover) is taken out  treatment for a condition or illness 
is limited to 12 months (the first condition above) and isnt covered if it reoccurs (the second 
condition). Based on this, as Mr S and Mrs S didnt take up the permanent health option, 
cover didnt include treatment for a reoccurrence of an illness, disease or condition. 
Mr S and Mrs S also say NFU should have specifically told them this was the case after the 
first claim for cruciate ligament treatment. However, Im not persuaded on this point. I say 
that because the renewal documentation set out above would have made it clear that the 
level of cover chosen by Mr S and Mrs S meant cover didnt include treatment for a 
reoccurrence of an illness, disease or condition. 
Ive also considered whether  even had Mr S and Mrs S changed their level of cover (to 
permanent health cover) after the first claim  it would have meant the second claim for 
cruciate ligament treatment would have been covered. NFU say that, even had Mr S and 
Mrs S added permanent health cover after the first claim, the second claim would still have 
been declined. On the grounds the condition would have been classified as pre-existing at 
the point permanent health cover was added  so the second claim still wouldnt have been 
covered, as it would have related to a pre-existing condition. NFU havent referenced a 
specific section of the policy, and looking at the policy terms and conditions, the term pre-
existing condition doesnt specifically appear. Nor is it clear that increasing cover to include 
permanent health cover would mean any pre-existing condition would be excluded. 
However, given what Ive concluded earlier about Mr S and Mrs S being reasonably aware of 
the differences in cover level, I dont think this affects my overall conclusions.
On the issue of bilateral conditions, our investigator thought  NFU hadnt done enough to 
make it clear to Mr S and Mrs S that the claim for treatment of one cruciate ligament (under 
the level of cover taken out by Mr S and Mrs S) would mean cover wasnt provided for any 
future treatment for damage to the other cruciate ligament (as a bilateral condition). NFU 
say the policy wording is clear (when defining the term condition) that bilateral conditions 
are covered. Having considered both views, I think the policy could be clearer on bilateral 
conditions. The term isnt specifically mentioned, but the policy defines condition as:Internal or external symptoms appearing or recurring in any area of the dog or cats 
body, whether or not a specific illness or disease is diagnosed.
While bilateral conditions are generally those that affect different parts of the body, they most 
usually mean parts of the body of which a pet has two  so would include cruciate ligaments 
as well as ears, eyes and hips. While the policy definition of condition could be taken to 
include parts of which there are two, I dont think it makes it clear. 
However, while I think the policy could be clearer, given my conclusion the policy terms 
indicate clearly that treatment for a condition or illness is limited to 12 months and isnt 
covered if it reoccurs, I think the key issue in this case is whether the claim for treatment of 
the second cruciate ligament can reasonably be considered to arise from the same (or 
recurring) condition as the first claim. 
Our investigator thought, based on the opinion from Mr S and Mrs Ss vet, that the second 
cruciate ligament damage wasnt related to the first. So, they should be treated as two 
separate, unrelated conditions. NFU say that, while separate events, it was the same 
condition, albeit affecting a different area of the body (the other cruciate ligament). They also 
said research suggested the same condition leading to cruciate ligament damage is often 
present in both legs (and 30% to 50% of dogs will suffer cruciate ligament damage to both 
legs within a one to two year period).
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence available, 
including the dogs clinical history and the views of the treating vet. Ive concluded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the two incidents should be treated as two separate, unrelated 
conditions. So, the second claim should be assessed without being seen as the same, or 
reoccurring condition. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Mr S and Mrs Ss vet has said, drawing on the clinical history and notes for the dog, the first 
cruciate ligament incident (in 2019) was thought to be the result of running on the farm. The 
second cruciate ligament (in 2021) was described as resulting from a hurt leg. The vet also 
noted no mention of lameness between the two events, nor of any problem with the second 
cruciate ligament at the time of the first (so only the affected leg was x-rayed at the time of 
the first incidence). Taking these points together, the vets opinion was that these were two 
entirely separate incidents. 
While I find the vets opinion persuasive, I have considered NFUs view. They havent 
provided the source of the research they refer to (or the statistic about the proportion of dogs 
that will suffer cruciate ligament damage). But while I accept that the same condition leading 
to cruciate ligament damage is often present in both legs, the evidence from the vet about 
Mr S and Mrs Ss dog doesnt support that being the case here. And the statistic about 30% 
to 50% of dogs suffer cruciate ligament damage to both legs within a one to two year period 
would still suggest that the majority of dogs (50% to 70%) wont suffer that damage. Ive also 
noted the two incidents in this case were more than two years apart, which would also be 
consistent with the conclusion the two incidents werent related to the same, reoccurring 
condition.
Based on this, Ive concluded NFU havent acted fairly in declining the second claim on the 
grounds of cover for any condition being limited to 12 months from its first appearance and 
any new claims for the same condition thereafter being excluded.
To put things right, NFU should assess the second claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If they accept the claim, they should also pay interest at the rate of 
8% simple from the date Mr S and Mrs S paid the cost of treatment to the date they settle 
the claim.On the issue of compensation, I think its fair for Mr S and Mrs S to receive compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I think £100 
would be fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. 
I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Assess the second claim for cruciate ligament treatment in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess as appropriate).
Pay Mr S and Mrs S £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If they accept the second claim, The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited should also pay interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr S and Mrs S paid 
the cost of treatment to the date they settle the claim.
The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr S and Mrs S accept my final decision. If 
they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman