The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited. 
In summary, he says:
Prudential carried out a search of his credit file and marked it as money laundering.
He didnt receive a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) from Prudentials third
parties despite making a request.
A voicemail was left by Prudential the contents of which breached General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR).
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Prudential is aware that Mr H contacted some of its business partners asking about
information held on him. But Prudential explained that it was responsible for dealing
with any DSARs.
In the process of responding to the DSAR Prudential had to carry out a number of
checks before they sent out the information, this included carrying out checks using a
credit check system which checks for the presence of any money laundering flags or
any adverse public data.
The call was made to Mr Hs personal mobile and a general voice message was left.
Shes unable to say that anyone else wouldve had access to this message.
The third-party business didnt receive any information for Mr H as he doesnt have
the ISA that it provides.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
made no further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1915532reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to say that 
Prudential has behaved unreasonably by conducting a search of his credit file.   
Prudential has made clear that it  not third-party data processors - is responsible, as data 
controller, for dealing with any DSAR activities. Whilst Prudential has been forthcoming in 
assisting Mr H and ensuring he receives information that hes requested, I also note that it 
made clear that it wasnt willing to engage in any further correspondence relating to this 
DSAR. 
Just to make it clear, Im not looking at whether Prudential is in breach of GDPR, thats 
beyond my remit. It might be worth Mr H directing any such complaints involving GDPR and 
its potential failings to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) rather than to our service 
from the outset. I believe Mr H is now aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, of this having 
made a number of complaints to us involving GDPR issues and having received the same 
message. 
I dealt with a previous complaint of Mr H against Prudential that wasnt upheld as I felt that 
the redress offered by Prudential for its shortcomings was broadly fair and reasonable. So I 
dont intend on addressing issues that have already been dealt with involving the delivery of 
documents. 
Despite what Mr H says I dont think Prudential has behaved unreasonably by conducting a 
credit file check. I understand that it was undertaken to validate and verify his identity, which 
I believe Prudential as a financial business is entitled to do, and a lot of businesses do in 
response to requests to surrender investments or for information. So, this wasnt unique to 
Prudential.  
In this instance the check was carried out using an administration system called Call 
Credit. I understand businesses across the industry use this or similar systems in order to 
verify identity and ensure that there are no money laundering flags. 
I appreciate that Mr H was alarmed by the mention of money laundering but I understand 
that the process was routine so Prudential could continue with responding to his DSAR and 
not because it thought he was involved in the offence of money laundering.  
I understand that a voicemail was left on Mr Hs mobile that hes unhappy about. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that any sensitive information was left, or that there was any risk of the 
voice message being intercepted in the way that a voice message left on a house phone 
might be. As Ive said earlier its not for me to determine whether or not this amounts to a 
breach of GDPR. 
I understand Mr H didnt receive a response from a third-party business simply because he 
doesnt have an investment with it.  
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator but 
in this instance, I dont think Prudential has behaved unreasonably.  
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman