DRN-3798853
The complaint
Miss I complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd have held her liable for a fraudulent 
loan. Miss I also complains about how long they took to investigate her claim the loan they 
were asking her to repay was fraudulent.
Another party has supported Miss I in bringing this complaint, but as the account is in her 
name, Ive just referred to her for simplicity. 
What happened
In July 2017 a short-term loan for £250 was taken out in Miss Is name with a company Ill 
refer to as C. My understanding is all loan repayments werent made, so the loan defaulted 
and was subsequently sold to Lantern. The balance increased to £494.80 due to interest 
applied seemingly before it was sold to Lantern. C is no longer trading.
Miss I says she first became aware of the loan when getting a copy of her credit file in 
preparation for applying for a mortgage. This was in June 2021, and she reported the matter 
to Lantern at the time saying the loan had been fraudulently taken out. She next heard from 
Lantern in October 2021  where they said their fraud investigation was taking longer than 
expected.
By February 2022, Miss I wanted to apply for her mortgage but couldnt do so while she had 
a default registered against her. So she contacted Lantern, paid off the debt so the account 
would show as settled, and raised a complaint.
Lantern accepted the fraud investigation had taken too long but didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say fraud had taken place. They said sorry for the length of time taken.
Unhappy with this Miss I asked us to look into things  saying shed offered to pay off the 
debt when originally complaining in June 2021 but Lantern said to wait until the investigation 
has been done. She explained after paying off the debt in February 2022, and before the 
default could be updated on her credit file, the Bank of England base rate had changed  
meaning she could no longer get the cheaper interest rate shed planned for on her 
mortgage. Because of this, she asked for £494.80 to be refunded  which was the amount 
she paid to settle the loan  plus £3,809 which represents the additional cost of borrowing on 
the mortgage shes now got.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and upheld the complaint, but not to the degree 
Miss I had asked for. Our Investigator recommended redress of £300 for the delays in the 
matter being investigated  but didnt think she could reasonably award the mortgage costs.
Miss I didnt tell us she disagreed with the outcome, but Lantern did, in summary they said:
Their correspondence on 27 October 2021 said theyd received the completed fraud 
forms and the investigation was taking longer than expected to complete. They said 
this wasnt an acknowledgement the fraud investigation had begun.
The fraud investigation outcome was delivered by phone on 19 January 2022  and 
Lantern said in order to consider the balance as fraud theyd need a Police report 
and evidence from Miss Is bank there was fraud. 
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant look at any actions by C  as this complaint is against 
Lantern only. 
Fraud claim
Generally, Id expect a debt collector to be satisfied they have enough information the debt is 
likely to belong to the person theyre contacting. Lantern were provided with evidence when 
buying the account from C which shows the account was opened in Miss Is name, at her 
then address, and some payments were made to the loan. 
If C was still trading, its possible more information would come to light which might help 
prove Miss Is claim the loan was fraudulent. And Ive not ignored that other accounts taken 
out around the same time have been determined to be fraudulent  but here I can only look 
at Lanterns decision.
Lantern purchased the account in good faith and because Miss I hadnt raised the account 
as being in dispute while C was trading there was no reason for Lantern to think this was 
anything other than a legitimate debt owing.  
Given the evidence theyve got, which is all they can get due to C no longer trading, I cant 
fairly say theyve reached a wrong decision. So, because of that, I think Lantern had fairly 
recorded a default, and were fairly asking her to repay the debt. As a result, I wont be telling 
them to refund Miss I the £494.80 she paid to clear the debt.
The length of time taken to investigate the fraud claim
Ive noted Lantern have accepted theyve taken too long to investigate matters  but they 
think the award by our Investigator of £300 is excessive.
The issue was originally raised on 3 June 2021, and the outcome wasnt communicated until 
19 January 2022  this is around seven and a half months. I find this an extremely long time 
for a financial business to, seemingly, just review the information they already had and reach 
an outcome. 
Ive also noted when delivering the outcome, theyve told Miss I that having a Police report 
would be helpful. This though isnt mentioned by Lanterns agent in this first call on 
3 June 2021  even after the agent was asked if there is anything else that would be helpful.
So, Im in agreement matters have taken too long, and think Lantern havent realised the 
severity of their delays here.
The impact of the delays
Miss I has said as a result of Lanterns errors shes not been able to get the mortgage deal 
which she wanted before the interest rates increased. In order to award Miss I these costs, I need to be satisfied Lantern are solely responsible for them  and that regardless of 
anything Miss I did, these costs would have been incurred anyway due to Lanterns actions / 
inactions.
Miss I has said to us she offered to pay off the debt during the first complaint call. Ive 
listened to this call where the issues were raised  and I cant hear that she did offer to pay 
off the debt. I can see our Investigator asked when Miss I made that offer to look into it 
further, but she wasnt able to provide any more information.
In addition, at the time it seems there isnt any real urgency from Miss I for the matter to be 
resolved. Its said in the call shes not planning to apply for a mortgage for 6-12 months  
and the only reason for wanting the default to be removed is for the mortgage.
Added to that, is that Im not aware of Miss I chasing the matter up with Lantern which, given 
the length of time thats passed, Id usually see. Shes explained this is because she was 
dealing with other debts  which is perfectly understandable  so she just left Lantern to get 
on with sorting this out. 
Its unclear to me exactly when the matter became more urgent for Miss I, but I cant 
reasonably say Lantern were aware of the urgency for her. And although theyve caused 
errors leading to a delay, I also cant find Miss I offering to pay off the debt prior to when she 
actually did in February 2022  nor chasing up matters regularly which might have resolved 
things earlier.
I do think Lantern have acted poorly here, but not to the extent I can award Miss I her 
mortgage costs. In addition, although Ive noted Miss I has some evidence from her broker 
about what the lender would have taken into account, I cant say with any degree of certainty 
her mortgage application would have succeeded even if matters had moved quicker. 
Like our Investigator though, I do think compensation is appropriate. And I think £300 for a 
seven-and-a-half-month delay with poor communication is a fair amount to recognise the 
impact on Miss I.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to pay Miss I £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman