DRN-3279284
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Limited (Fortegra) has 
declined his claim for damaged sofas under his furniture protection plan insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H purchased two sofas and took out furniture protection plan 
insurance at the time. In April 2021 Mr H made a claim to Fortegra about damage to his 
sofas. He said that there was a deep scratch on one seat of each sofa. He also said that 
there was stain damage from a previous failed repair by Fortegra. 
Fortegras report concluded that the damage had been caused by general use and wasnt 
covered under the policy. It refused to uphold the claim and Mr H complained about this. 
Fortegra remained of the view that the policy didnt cover damage caused by general wear 
and tear. Mr H then referred his complaint to our service as he wanted Fortegra to arrange 
for the sofas to be fixed or replaced.
Our investigator didnt ask Fortegra to uphold the claim. His view was that Fortegra hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Hs claim. He noted deep scratches to the 
sofa and some other damage but thought it was reasonable for Fortegra to take the view that 
the damage was gradual and to decline the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Mr H remains unhappy with the outcome and the matter has been referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether Fortegra has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Hs claim in the light of the terms and conditions of his policy. I conclude that it 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably, and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment, as he paid for his insurance and feels hes not 
receiving help under his policy. When he took insurance out with Fortegra, he said that he 
was told that everything was covered. He also felt that the damage to his sofas was not 
caused by general use. Initially, he thought that the cuts were scratches, so he wiped them 
with sofa wipes, but then realised they were deep. He also said that the year before, one of 
the sofas had a spill on it and Fortegra came to fix it, but he said that this made the problem 
worse. He said that Fortegra werent mentioning the cuts in the sofas or the previous visit by 
Fortegra to fix damage. 
 
Mr H rightly refers to the product information document which refers to accidental stains 
such as those caused by drinksunidentifiable stainsdye transfer (not as a result of a 
build-up) and accidental damage such as tears and rips and scuffs and scratches.
I note that this product information document also states; cover is dependent on the 
Furniture Protection Plan you purchase. Please refer to the policy terms and conditions for 
specific limitations regarding coverage. It also states that wear and tear is not insured and 
that there is a restriction on cover as follows; cover does not apply for damage that occurs 
naturally due to normal use and ageing or for your product becoming gradually dirty and out 
of condition over time.
The starting point is therefore the policy document and the specific wording of its terms and 
conditions. There relevant extracts are as follows: -
Section 4 What is not covered
-damage or staining caused by cleaning products being used incorrectly
-abrasions that are caused by daily use and cleaning over a period of time;
-deterioration of the products appearance through normal use or general soiling for example 
wear on high areas of traffic e.g. arm restand so on;
-routine repair/cleaning carried out by a [Fortegra] approved repairer/cleaner or another 
party;
-an accumulation of multiple different stain types across multiple areas of the item.
Fortegras June 2021 report referred to seat cushions being scuffed in places and to colour 
loss and that the cause of the problem is unknown accidental damage. It said that the centre 
seat cushion cover colour loss may be from cleaning, but having tested it, no colour came 
away. For 100% resolution, it recommended new covers were fitted.
In its final response letter in September 2021 however, Fortegra concluded that it wouldnt 
cover the claim. It said that the policy was designed to cover sudden, unforeseen, and 
unexpected incidents of accidental damage and staining to furniture. It said that the policy 
didnt cover for damage occurring due to general and daily use and due to an accumulation 
of damage rather than a single incident. It also referred to the opinion of a service company 
which inspected the furniture; 'We feel it is general use as some scuffs you can see have 
some ingrained dirt and are not new, and the variation of the depth of the scuffs are not 
consistent with one incident.'
Having looked at the photographs of damage and considered evidence supplied both by 
Fortegra and Mr H, Ive noted that there are a few areas of damage to the sofas. These 
consist of scuffs, marks and cuts and some general staining and fading. The photographs 
support the observations in Fortegras report as to general scuffing of varying degrees and 
some colour loss. I accept that its more likely than not in the circumstances that the various 
instances of damage occurred on separate occasions over a period of time. 
Looking at these facts in the light of the policy terms and conditions, I accept that on the 
balance of probabilities, the damage consists of abrasions caused by daily use over a period 
of time which falls outside the terms and conditions of the policy. There also appears to be 
some deterioration of the sofas appearance consistent with normal use and an 
accumulation of more than one stain type on more than one area. This is consistent with 
general wear and tear of a sofa.
As to an area of cushion cover colour loss, Fortegra stated that this may be from cleaning, 
but having tested it, it said that no colour came away. If this had been caused by a failed 
cleaning attempt by Fortegra rather than Mr H or his family, unfortunately it wouldnt be 
covered by the policy in any event. This is because the policy doesnt include cover for 
damage caused by cleaning previously carried out by Fortegras approved repairer or 
cleaner.In the circumstances, I conclude that Fortegra hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
interpretation of the policy wording and I dont uphold Mr Hs claim. I appreciate that this will 
come as a great disappointment to Mr H, however Im satisfied that this is a fair outcome in 
the light of the of the available evidence and the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require 
Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to his complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman