DRN-3321036
The complaint
Mr K complains that he suffered consequential losses resulting from tax paid on dividends 
while he held an interest rate swap sold by NatWest Markets Plc.
What happened
In 2008 Mr K entered an interest rate swap agreement with NatWest alongside a loan. In 
2016 the bank reviewed the sale of the swap under its agreement with the Financial Conduct 
Authority and offered redress for the swap payments. Mr K accepted the offer, which also left 
him with the right to make a further claim for consequential losses. In 2018 Mr K made his 
claim. NatWest concluded that Mr K would pay increased income tax as a result of the 
redress payment being made in a single year and offered redress of £8,206.15 to cover that 
increase.
Mr K complained to the bank that he had also suffered over £20,000 consequential losses 
resulting from the tax on dividends he withdrew from his company (which Ill call N) in order 
to make the swap payments. He said that without the swap he wouldnt have had to make 
the withdrawals or pay the tax. NatWest declined this claim, saying that Mr K hadnt 
evidenced that he wouldnt otherwise have made the dividend withdrawals. Nor had he 
shown how retaining the funds in the company would have led to a different tax liability. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator noted that the scale of Mr Ks dividend withdrawals didnt correlate with the 
swap payments. The investigator also pointed out that N entered voluntary liquidation in 
2019 and the money retained in the company was passed to the shareholders, of which 
Mr K was the majority holder. Mr K has been given the opportunity to explain the impact of 
the dividend withdrawals on Mr Ks total tax bill for receiving the company funds, but he 
hasnt done so. For these reasons the investigator didnt think NatWest needed to offer Mr K 
compensation for the alleged tax losses resulting from the dividend payments. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He and his representative made the 
following points, in summary:
The time period that should be considered is when the swap payments were taken. 
The question is the particular state of play when the payments were due. The fact is 
that Mr K suffered and incurred significant tax losses as he was pressured and forced 
to make business decisions that were not of benefit to him. 
NatWest is talking about the future and claiming that Mr K benefited from the lenient 
tax position. All this is completely irrelevant to the argument. What the bank is playing 
at is to show that the ultimate way out was to pay less taxes. No businesses are run 
like this.
Mr K could have been a worse position if as envisaged he had continued to trade. 
NatWest could not then have argued that Mr K should be able to have recourse. 
Unbeknown to Mr K, the bank had a contingent liability against the original loan as a 
result of the swap. This demonstrates a complete lack of transparency on behalf of 
the bank. 
Mr Ks representative also gave a number of further reasons why the swap agreement 
should be regarded as a mis-sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Because the issue of the mis-sale has already been resolved between the two parties, the 
starting point of my decision is that Mr K shouldnt have had the swap. I wont be re-opening 
that issue. 
Ive looked at the submissions showing Mr Ks swap payments, dividend withdrawals and 
income over the period from 2009 to 2015. I agree with the investigator that theres no 
evident relationship between the level of the swap payments and the level of the dividend 
withdrawals. If anything, the higher levels of dividend withdrawals were in the years of lower 
or zero swap payments. Moreover, there is no evident relationship between Mr Ks income 
net of the swap payments (property income plus other earnings, minus swap payments) and 
the level of the dividend withdrawals. From the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that 
the swap payments caused Mr K to make or to increase his dividend withdrawals from N.
I also think the tax paid on the dividend withdrawals cant be considered in isolation. Even if 
the dividends were withdrawn as a result of the demands of the swap (and, to be clear, Im 
not persuaded they were), the correct measure of any loss would in my view be the 
difference between the tax paid at the time and the tax that would be paid on later 
withdrawal of the funds had they not been withdrawn during the life of the swap. Mr K has 
declined to offer any estimate or evidence of the level of this net loss and disagrees that any 
later tax liability should be considered. 
I understand that Mr K and his representative believe strongly that the only events I should 
consider are those within the lifetime of the swap, when Mr K was making decisions about 
meeting the associated payments. But to assess the level of any consequential losses, I 
need to compare what actually happened with what would have happened in the absence of 
the banks failure. In the current case it would mean comparing, as far as possible, the actual 
tax paid with the tax Mr K would have paid without the swap  including the tax he would 
have paid on obtaining the same funds later. This net position would be the correct 
assessment of any loss resulting from the dividend withdrawals, and I dont accept that I 
should ignore what would have happened when N was wound up. 
For this reason, I cant agree with the loss figures that Mr Ks representative has provided, 
which take no account of the tax that would have been incurred on the funds received on the 
closure of the company. In any event, as Ive said above, Im not persuaded that the swap 
payments caused Mr K to make or increase his dividend withdrawals from N, so I cant 
reasonably say that any excess tax was paid on the dividend withdrawals as a result of the 
swap.
Mr Ks representative also argues that Mr K would have been disadvantaged by a contingent 
liability associated with the swap. But the complaint Ive been asked to determine is the consequential loss claim for excess tax paid by Mr K on dividend withdrawals from N. I dont 
believe that a contingent liability  a feature of the banks internal credit assessment  could 
have had any effect on the dividend withdrawals or the tax paid on them. Im not persuaded 
that this matter is relevant to Mr Ks current complaint.
For reasons given above, Im not persuaded that the swap caused Mr K any losses as a 
result of excess tax on dividend withdrawals from N.
The bank has said its £8,206.15 offer, for the increased income tax resulting from the 
redress payment being made in a single year, is still open. Mr K should contact NatWest 
Markets Plc if he now wishes to accept the offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about consequential losses resulting 
from tax paid on dividends.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman