DRN-3115823
The complaint
Mr A applied for a remortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) and is 
unhappy with the valuation figure given for his property. He said he lost out on a lower 
interest rate because of it.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr A applied for a buy to let remortgage with TMW. Due to the 
coronavirus pandemic, TMW said they were unable to send out a surveyor to the 
property, so they carried out a desktop valuation instead. The value of Mr As property 
came back at
£230,000. Mr A said this was too low and expected it to be £275,000 based on 
information he had obtained from an independent estate agent. This agent also said the 
property should achieve a rental income of £1,100 per month.
Mr A didnt agree with the valuation figure and asked TMW to send a surveyor to the 
property. TMW said they couldnt do this due to the UK wide Covid related restrictions. 
TMW told Mr A that he could appeal the desktop valuation within seven days but then 
admitted that there wasnt an appeal process. So they offered Mr A £50 for the incorrect 
information. They said that the valuation was based on the latest rental photos they saw 
on the internet. But they told Mr A that if work had been carried out since, they would be 
happy to review the valuation again based on recent photos. They said they would not 
increase the valuation based on the letter from the independent estate agent who said it 
was worth more.
Mr A said he provided five comparable properties, when TMW only asked for three, but 
the valuation still didnt change. He also said that he had a tenant paying £1,000 per 
month when TMW said the rental income would be placed at £950 per month.
Once the Covid restrictions were lifted at the end of May 2020, Mr A asked TMW to 
send a surveyor round to the property because he believed the valuation was incorrect. 
TMW said they had to stand by their desktop valuation as this was valid for three 
months  which expired on 7 July 2020. Mr A wasnt happy about this.
He said that his mortgage deal at the time, (with another lender) expired on 31 May 2020. 
So because of the issue with the valuation, his product expired on to the lenders standard 
variable rate (SVR) and he believes he would have been on a lower interest rate if the
valuation came back higher. So, he wants to be put in the position he would have been 
in, if the valuation was higher. Mr A said his mortgage payments were £650 and they 
increased to around £900 per month.
Mr A then made a second application once the desktop valuation expired on 7July 2020. 
Mr A said he was inconvenienced as he had to provide income documents again and go 
through an affordability assessment which caused delays and affected his credit score  
because two applications were made close together. Once the second application was 
made, a surveyor was instructed, and the valuation came back at £275,000, which is what 
Mr A thought it should have been originally.
During this time, Mr A decided to remortgage to another lender and an application was 
made on 16 July 2020 to move his mortgage elsewhere.
Mr A said that the first application he made with TMW was incorrect because of the 
valuation and the delays in the second application caused him financial loss.
Mr A said he accepted the £50 compensation that TMW offered him as they gave 
him incorrect information, but he didnt agree with the valuation or how they dealt 
with his applications.
As Mr A didnt agree, he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by 
one of our investigators. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said in summary, 
that had TMW instructed a surveyor to visit the property earlier than they did, Mr A would 
have secured a better rate on his mortgage. She said they should pay him £250 for the 
trouble and upset he has been caused and they should also pay the difference between 
the preferential rate that TMW would have offered him against the SVR that he was 
paying with his previous lender  for two months.
Mr A accepted this but TMW disagreed. They said that Mr A made an application with 
another lender on 16 July 2020, so he had already decided to remortgage elsewhere. 
They said they cannot agree to pay the difference in the payments for July and August 
2020.
As TMW disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence I have been provided with, the crux of the matter here 
is the amount that the property was valued at using a desktop valuation. Mr A thought the 
value should be higher. And he didnt understand why TMW wouldnt arrange for a 
surveyor to visit the property to carry out a valuation once Covid restrictions had been 
lifted. He feels he has lost out financially because of this.
Ive thought carefully about what has happened here taking into account the restrictions 
that were in place last year due to Covid and the support that was available for 
borrowers.
Mr As initial application was made to TMW on 1 April 2020. He wanted to remortgage 
from another lender to TMW. At this time, it wasnt possible for surveyors to physically go 
out and value properties, so TMW instructed a desktop valuation on 7 April 2020. I 
understand the reasons for them doing so, as there were restrictions in place at this time. 
And I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. The desktop valuation came back 
at £230,000 which Mr A thought was too low. TMW said they came to this valuation figure 
based on similar properties and on recent pictures they had found on the internet  where 
Mr As property was listed. Mr A said he sent in comparable properties but TMW didnt 
amend the valuation figure. They did however tell Mr A that he could submit up to date 
pictures if work had been
completed on the property since  however, I cant see that he did this. Mr A wasnt happy 
that TMW used a desktop valuation, but I think that TMW were entitled to rely on the 
desktop valuation that was carried out. This was the process they followed at that time and 
I see no reason why they were not able to rely on this.
Once the restrictions were lifted at the end of May 2020, Mr A asked for a surveyor to visit 
the property because he didnt agree with the desktop valuation of £230,000. TMW said 
they couldnt do this because desktop valuations are valid for three months and couldnt 
arrange this until it expired on 7 July 2020. This is a decision that, as a business, TMW is entitled to make. After the desktop valuation expired, TMW asked Mr A to make a new 
application, which was made on 8 July 2020, rather than arranging for a physical valuation 
to take place.
Regarding the desktop valuation, TMW have followed their process here by saying that 
desktop valuations were valid for three months and they wouldnt instruct a surveyor to 
visit the property. They made a commercial decision at the time because of the restrictions 
in place and I think it was reasonable of them to do this. Based on this, I dont think TMW 
acted unreasonably here and did nothing wrong in relying on the desktop valuation.
The guidance at the time was very much geared towards treating customers fairly, and 
for lenders to do what they could to support those borrowers who were impacted by the 
coronavirus. TMW had every right to, based on their own commercial decision, to use 
the desktop valuation until it expired. I therefore cant say that they acted unreasonably.
After the desktop expired, TMW asked Mr A to apply again. From my experience, any 
lender would want up to date information about a consumers financial circumstances. 
Many different factors can take place over a three-month period and given the fact we 
were also in the middle of a pandemic, I dont think TMW were wrong by asking Mr A to 
apply again and resubmit further evidence to support his application.
During this period, Mr A decided to remortgage to another lender and made this 
application on 16 July 2020. He already had an application going through with TMW and 
I understand that his broker advised him to do this, due to what had happened with the 
valuation and application.
But I tend to agree with TMW here in that, Mr A already decided to remortgage to 
another lender having only made his second application with TMW on 8 July 2020. I 
dont think its fair for TMW to have to pay the difference in the rate he would have got 
with them, against the rate of the new lender. And as Ive said TMW were entitled to rely 
on the desktop valuation that was carried out. Mr A ultimately made the decision to move 
to another lender and for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think TMW was 
responsible for the fact that Mr A ended up paying the SVR.
While I appreciate this would have been very frustrating for Mr A and he feels he has lost 
out financially, I cant hold TMW responsible for that. As I have said, TMW made a 
commercial decision to use the desktop valuation at the time and allowed it to be in place 
for three months and they were entitled to do so. And Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
for them to ask Mr A to apply again after the three-month period.
TMW sent out a mortgage offer at the end of August 2020 offering Mr A an interest rate 
of 1.94%. Had Mr A  stayed with TMW he would have had this rate applied to his 
mortgage. But Mr A chose to remortgage to another lender, so I dont think its fair to ask 
TMW to pay the difference in the rates. And while I appreciate the time this had taken, I 
am not intending on asking TMW to pay Mr A any amount for trouble and upset because 
there is nothing I have seen that makes me believe they delayed the second application. 
They followed their own process and Im satisfied they acted fairly.
I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed with my provisional decision, especially as the 
investigator upheld it, but Ill await any further comments from both parties before making 
my final decision.
Developments
Mr A responded to the provisional decision. He said:TMW should have carried out a physical valuation as soon as they were able to. If 
they had done this, his application would have gone through much quicker
He said that TMWs handling of the second application was down to his 
proactiveness  he had to seek a solution and it was not down to them
TMWs customer service was below standards and he would like this considered
He said TMW made his application difficult because he had a complaint pending 
regarding poor customer service. He believes they didnt want to offer the mortgage 
to him because he was being a difficult customer 
His broker said that he had never seen such petty requests for documents when 
making the second application
He said TMW requested information on three separate occasions and this delayed 
matters on his second application
TMW responded but didnt have anything further to add. They did provide some further 
information regarding the valuation but nothing else to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of comments which I have considered. However, he hasnt raised 
anything that he hasnt already mentioned before in his submissions.
He still believes that TMW should have carried out a physical valuation as soon as 
restrictions were lifted but I have already explained in my provisional decision why I didnt 
think they had to. So I will not be going over this point again.
I have however looked at everything again in regard to the second application that was 
made to TMW. I accept that Mr A was proactive in applying for the mortgage the second 
time around but I cant agree that TMW made his application difficult. There is no evidence 
from what I have seen that indicates that TMW treated Mr A any differently to how they 
would have treated any other borrower. 
I can see that the second application was made on 8 July 2020 and shortly after that, there 
were various emails and letters requesting further information to support the application. 
From what I can see, and the information that has been provided, there is nothing that has 
been requested that has been requested without reason. 
The second application was made three months after the first one and as I already 
mentioned, we were in the middle of a pandemic so TMW had every right to gather 
information in order to assess Mr As financial circumstances at the time, so that they could 
satisfy themselves that they were lending responsibly.  I havent seen any requests where I 
would deem them as petty and I cannot say that TMW provided poor customer service 
because of this. 
I do accept that requests for information were on different days, however, I have looked at 
the contact notes that have been provided by TMW and I can see why certain information 
needed to be obtained. Its not always known at the start of an application what may be 
needed and even though its easy to argue that a lender should ask for everything, this isnt 
necessarily the best way of doing things as not everything is always needed.  Its only as 
applications progress that it sometimes come to light, depending on individual 
circumstances, what might be required.  I can see that the information TMW requested was 
relevant to what they needed to know based on Mr As personal circumstances. I therefore 
cannot agree that they delayed the application.I understand that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman