DRN-4013470
The complaint
Mrs and Mr F complain that Rock Insurance Service Limited sent their travel insurance 
documentation to a third party without their consent.
Rock is the intermediary for this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of a travel 
agent. As Rock has accepted its accountable for the actions of the travel agent in my 
decision any reference to Rock includes the actions of the travel agent.
What happened
Mrs and Mr F bought single trip travel insurance at a travel agent which is Rocks 
representative. Rock told Mrs and Mr F that it had mistakenly sent their policy documents to 
a third party, they didnt know, without their consent. The third party had told Rock about the 
documents.
Mrs and Mr F complained that:
Rocks error meant that whoever received their personal details knew the date they 
would be on holiday and their property would be empty which meant they were at risk 
of being burgled.
Rocks error also meant the unknown third party was given their bank account/credit 
card details and they were very worried about their financial details being used 
fraudulently. Rock had said it would put them on an anti-fraud register for two years 
but they want registration for ten years.
Rocks error caused considerable tension and upset between them, Mrs F wanted to 
cancel the holiday but Mr F didnt. Eventually they had to arrange for their daughter 
to stay at their property while they were on holiday so the property wasnt empty. 
While on holiday they were worried about their daughter being alone in the property 
given an unknown third party thought the house was empty. 
They want Rock to pay them compensation to recognise the distress its error caused.
Initially Rock didnt respond to our investigators request for its file. So our investigator made 
a recommendation on the information she had that Rock should pay Mrs and Mr F £300 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience its actions caused. 
Mrs and Mr F said they accepted the settlement of £300 but were disappointed we couldnt  
give any sanctions to Rock because of its error and they were still concerned about 
registration on the anti-fraud register.
Rock provided its file and comments after it received our investigators recommendation. It 
accepted it had caused a breach of Mrs and Mr Fs personal data but it didnt think it should 
pay them compensation. It said:
The third party who received Mrs and Mr Fs data didnt have any malicious intention, 
if so they wouldnt have told Rock they had Mrs and Mr Fs information. 
It had recorded a data breach in line with General Data Protection Regulations and 
completed Information Commissioners Office (ICO) documentation about the 
breach.
It had offered to pay for two years of CIFAS protective registration (a fraud prevention 
service) for Mrs and Mr F which was appropriate compensation as it lessened the 
risk of any fraudulent activity against them.
Mrs and Mr Fs complaint was a matter for the ICO to consider, not this service.
Our investigator considered Rocks evidence and said her original recommendation for 
compensation remained and also Rock should confirm to Mr and Mrs F that the two years of 
CIFAS protective registration was in place.
Mrs and Mr F added that they thought Rock had treated them with disrespect and disdain 
by not responding to their original complaint which should also be considered.
Before I considered the merits of this complaint I made a decision explaining why this 
service could consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly explained that we dont regulate businesses, so we cant punish or 
fine businesses for any errors they make. The ICO regulates compliance to data protection 
laws in the UK. It has a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply 
with data protection laws and to fine them, which we dont. 
But the ICO doesnt have the power to award compensation to consumers whove suffered 
financial loss or have been caused distress and inconvenience by the way a financial 
business has handled their personal information. 
We can consider whether a business should pay compensation for a consumers distress 
and inconvenience for an error it makes if the error relates to a regulated activity that we can 
consider, as it does in this case. Mrs and Mr F want Rock to pay them compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience.
Rock accepts it was responsible for a data protection breach of Mrs and Mr Fs details when 
it sent their personal information to a third party. The issue I have to decide is whether 
Rocks offer to pay for two years of CIFAS protective registration, which will cost Rock £25, 
is sufficient compensation for Mrs and Mr F, and I dont think it is.
Rock said Mrs and Mr F shouldnt have been worried because the third person told it they 
had Mrs and Mr Fs documents and data. But I think Mrs and Mr F were reasonably 
concerned about the possible implications of a third party, who they didnt know, having their 
personal information. Its clear from Mrs Fs correspondence with Rock how upset and concerned she was about 
its breach of her and her husbands personal information. As it was a single trip travel 
insurance policy the third person who wrongly got Mrs and Mr F personal data knew the 
dates they would be on holiday.
Mrs and Mr F say the worry caused them considerable distress and inconvenience. Mrs Fs 
described the impact on her and Mr Fs relationship before and during their holiday and the 
additional cost they paid due to their daughter staying at their property. And they are very 
anxious about the ongoing risk of their financial details potentially being used fraudulently. 
I accept Rocks breach of Mrs and Mr Fs personal information caused them considerable 
distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator has explained that we dont award compensation for hypothetical situations, 
so my compensation award doesnt reflect any what if there was fraud scenarios. Ive no 
evidence that fraud has taken place as a result of Rocks data breach of Mrs and Mr Fs 
personal information. If that unfortunately happens it would be a separate matter.
Mrs and Mr F say Rock treated them with disrespect and disdain in not responding to their 
original complaint. I havent seen that Rock gave a substantive response to the complaint. 
But I have seen it sent them acknowledgement letters and letters about the delay in its 
response. It told Mrs and Mr F they could complain to us. Rock didnt completely ignore all of 
Mrs and Mr Fs correspondence. I cant reasonably say Rock treated them with disrespect 
and disdain.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied that a compensation award of £300 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for Rock to pay Mrs and Mr F for their distress and inconvenience.
Im not going to require Rock to extend the CIFAS registration for Mrs and Mr F from two 
years to ten years, as they request. The CIFAS website says under the heading of 
Renewing Protective Registration:
Protective Registration is most effective in the first few months of your loss of 
personal data. Fraudsters try to gain the maximum benefit from the data before the 
fraud is detected and the victims details protected. Continuing to use Protective 
Registration after the threat has diminished devalues the service, as more 
applications are subject to checks, and so those most at threat are harder to identify.
So on the evidence I have I think Rocks offer to register Mrs and Mr F for two years is 
reasonable. It should provide confirmation to Mrs and Mr F that the two years of CIFAS 
protective registration paid for by Rock is in place. 
Putting things right
Rock must pay Mrs and Mr F £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience its 
caused and confirm to them that the two years of CIFAS protective registration that its paid 
for them is in place.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Rock Insurance Services Limited to:
pay Mrs and Mr F £300 compensation for their distress and inconvenience its 
caused, and 
confirm to Mrs and Mr F that the two years of CIFAS protective registration that its 
paid for them is in place.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman