DRN-2313799
The complaint
Mr J complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Trading as Virgin Money) (Clydesdale) did not 
process his instruction to cancel his ISA transfer and that he suffered a financial loss as a 
result.
What happened
On 12 March 2020, Mr J requested the transfer of his ISA to another ISA provider where he 
also had an account. Clydesdale started the process for transferring the ISA to his provider 
at this point.
On 19 March 2020, Mr J contacted Clydesdale to ask them to cancel his request for his ISA 
to be transferred. Unfortunately, the agent at Clydesdale input an incorrect narrative on the 
system and the request to cancel was not properly recorded.
On 7 April 2020, a cheque totalling £108,446.83 was sent by Clydesdale to the new provider. 
This represented the sale of units in Mr Js ISA. Mr J complained to Clydesdale on 9 April 
and said that since they had sold his units, they had increased in value by 5%.
Clydesdale investigated his concerns. They acknowledged that they should have cancelled 
his instruction to transfer and offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr J rejected 
this saying that he suffered a financial loss when his funds were out of the market. 
Clydesdale offered to reinstate Mr Js ISA but there was some confusion as to what this 
would mean as a settlement. Clydesdale issued their final decision to Mr J with an offer of 
£100 as compensation.
Unhappy with Clydesdales decision, Mr J referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator thought that Clydesdale had made 
an error in not cancelling Mr Js instruction to transfer and thought that he should be 
compensated as he suffered a financial loss when he was out of the market and the value of 
his units had increased.
Clydesdale did not agree with the investigators view and have asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for much of the same reasons and Im going to 
uphold the complaint.
Clydesdale have said that they made an error in not following Mr Js instruction and this is 
acknowledged by each party so I wont go into further detail about this part of the complaint.
Mr Js says that Clydesdales error has resulted in him suffering a financial loss. Mr J says 
that he was monitoring the stock market from February 2020 and he believed that the market 
was going to take a downward turn. As a result of this, he wanted to move his money into a 
more bond orienteered fund and specifically, he didnt want to be out of the market.
The investigator agreed with Mr J and recommended that Clydesdale try and put Mr J back 
into the position he should have been in had the error not occurred. This was not a 
straightforward solution as Mr J had invested into another investment.
In their submission to the service, Clydesdale have challenged some of the investigators 
comments and I will consider their points here.
Clydesdale have said that they posted the cheque to Mr Js provider on 7 April and it was not 
cashed until 15 April. They say that the ISA provider did not invest the cash amount until 20 
April and they should not be held responsible for the delay between when the cheque was 
sent and when the cash amount was invested.
I acknowledge that there was a delay in between the cheque being sent and it being 
invested on behalf of Mr J but in the circumstances that we currently face, I dont think that 
this is an unreasonable amount of time. I think that it also safe to say that had Clydesdale 
correctly followed Mr Js instruction to cancel the transfer, there would have been no need 
for a cheque to be issued.
Clydesdale have said that they spoke to Mr J on 15 April and he was happy for the transfer 
to be left as it was and as a result, did not attempt to recover the funds from his provider. 
They also said that as Mr J had said that the transfer should stand, they could not agree to 
his claim to be compensated for being out of the market.
Ive said previously that there was confusion about the purpose of this call. Having reviewed 
the information available to me, I dont think that it was clear to Mr J if Clydesdale were 
offering to reinstate the ISA or that they would correct any loss that Mr J had suffered. This is 
further complicated by the fact that Clydesdale said they would investigate and come back to 
Mr J, but they sent out their final decision letter the next day with only an offer of £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My role as an ombudsman is to consider if the business has done something wrong and if 
so, what actions should they take to make it right or by putting the client back into the 
position that they should have been in had the error not occurred. Clydesdale have 
acknowledged that they made an error in not following Mr Js instruction to cancel the ISA 
transfer, so I need to consider what actions they need to take to put Mr J back into a 
reasonable position.
  
Putting things right
I have looked at Mr Js submission to the service and believe his argument that he wanted to 
change investment strategy and remain in the market to be persuasive. 
Mr Js units were sold on 6 April at a price of 203.1p resulting in proceeds of £108,446.83. 
Had Clydesdale not sold these units, Mr Js units would have been priced at 212.60p as at 
20 April and worth £113,519.41  a difference of £5,072.58.
From the records that I have seen, Mr J purchased a slightly different security on the 20 April 
after his funds were received so a straight comparison cant be achieved. I have considered that Mr J used his sale proceeds to purchase a different line of stock. I 
have assumed therefore that had Clydesdale not sold his shares, he would have been better 
off by the sum of £5072.58 by the time he was able to reinvest his sale proceeds.
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc to undertake the following actions:
Pay Mr J £5,072.58 which represents the loss from being out of the market from 6  20 
April 2020
Pay Mr J 8% simple interest on this sum from 20 April 2020 to the date of this decision. 
The additional interest is for Mr J being deprived of the use of any compensation.
Pay Mr J £100 for the trouble and upset caused by their error
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman