DRN-3877976
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled his request for 
help to recover money under the chargeback scheme. 
What happened
Mr S was scheduled to fly on 12 March 2022. The evening before his flight, Mr S arranged 
some airport parking. He used a booking agent to do this, who Ill refer to as E, and then 
chose the most suitable option available to him from the choices he was given. He paid 
£63.99 using his Barclaycard.
When Mr S received his booking confirmation the same evening, he did some research into 
the parking provider being used. Unhappy with what he saw, he cancelled the booking 
through E and asked for a refund. E replied to Mr S to confirm that he wasnt eligible for a 
refund as he cancelled his booking within 48 hours of his car drop off date. E provided the 
relevant part of their terms and conditions along with their response. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S got in touch with Barclaycard and completed a disputed transaction 
form, which he sent to them along with the evidence he felt supported his claim. After 
reviewing it, Barclaycard told Mr S that they felt there was insufficient evidence to enable 
them to raise a chargeback claim on his behalf. They also explained that they couldnt 
consider a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the disputed 
amount was under the minimum financial threshold allowable for a s75 claim. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He was unhappy with Barclaycards response and 
felt he had sufficient evidence to show a misrepresentation by E, and he felt this should be 
enough to enable a chargeback claim to be raised for him. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said he didnt think there was enough evidence to support a chargeback 
claim, in line with the relevant card scheme rules in place. He agreed with Barclaycards 
comment that a s75 claim couldnt be considered because of the amount being claimed for. 
Mr S remained unhappy as he continued to feel his evidence was conclusive. As Mr S didnt 
agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visa. In certain circumstances 
the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Mr S made to be refunded. 
Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. In Mr Ss case, the total amount of his 
transaction didnt meet the minimum cash price  it wasnt more than £100  to enable a s75 
claim to be considered. Im satisfied that Barclaycard have acted fairly when they confirmed 
to Mr S that s75 couldnt be considered in his case. 
Barclaycard didnt raise a chargeback for Mr S when he asked for one. As Ive explained 
above, they didnt have an obligation to do so. And having looked at the information here; Im 
satisfied they acted fairly by not doing so. 
Mr S has said that he feels the parking arrangements he made through E have been 
misrepresented, which should allow a chargeback claim to be raised. But I dont agree with 
him here. Es terms and conditions  provided by Mr S  state that they act as a booking 
agent only, and responsibility and liability for all vehicles lie with the parking service provider. 
The terms later state:
Bookings
-You must read and understand all information about each service provider 
including their terms prior to purchasing their service. If you have any queries or 
questions about offered service(s), you must raise them prior to booking.
The terms also confirm that any booking made within 48 hours of the expected drop off date 
will not be eligible for a refund. 
Once Mr S had input his details to confirm the arrangements for his booking, it seems he 
was presented with a range of options and choices at varying prices. From what Ive seen, 
the option Mr S chose had the ability for More Info to be selected prior to booking and 
making payments. Whilst I cant say for certain that the provider of the parking would have 
been shown here had Mr S clicked on the More Info link for his chosen option, Im more 
persuaded than not that it would have done. I say this because, having accessed Es 
website, each parking option available shows the parking provider under the More Info tab, 
along with any terms and conditions that apply. I havent seen anything to suggest this 
wouldnt have been the case had Mr S clicked on the More Info link when arranging his 
parking in March 2022. 
As Es terms and conditions confirm that all information about each service provider must be read and understood prior to purchase, and as Im more persuaded than not that information 
would have been available to Mr S prior to him accepting the booking and making his 
payment, it follows that Im satisfied there hasnt been a misrepresentation here. For 
Barclaycard to raise a chargeback on Mr Ss behalf, they have to be satisfied there is a 
suitable chargeback code that applies. I dont think there is in this case, so Im satisfied 
theyve acted fairly by not raising a chargeback when Mr S made his request to them.
Mr S has also commented that he feels that, had he gone ahead with the booking and left 
his car with the selected parking provider, it more than likely would have been damaged 
upon his return. He has based that on online reviews hes seen. However, as Mr S didnt go 
ahead with the booking and didnt leave the car with the parking provider I wont be making a 
finding on that in this decision. My role is to decide based on what has happened in the 
case, and not what might have happened had the situation been different. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but my decision is that Barclaycard have 
acted reasonably by not raising a chargeback claim for him. I wont be asking them to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman