DRN-2690918
The complaint
Mr C and Ms Cs complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made for subsidence damage under their home insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.  
What happened
Mr C and his mother Ms C jointly hold a home insurance policy with Aviva. The policy has 
been in force and renewed annually since May 2016. In January 2020, they notified Aviva of 
some damage to their property caused by cracking to the walls and tiles.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of the damage. The loss adjuster 
provided a report in which it stated the cracking damage wasnt as a result of either recent or 
progressive subsidence movement. It said the cracks were historic and had been monitored 
previously. And as it couldnt find evidence of any other insured event it recommended the 
claim be declined.
Mr C and Ms C complained about Avivas decision to decline the claim and asked for an 
engineer to visit the property. In April 2020, Aviva provided its final response to the 
complaint. It said it had reviewed the findings made by the loss adjuster and maintained its 
position that the damage was not subsidence, but historic distortion to the property. It didnt 
agree that an engineers visit was necessary and said the claim remained declined.
Mr C and Ms C didnt agree with Avivas final response and appointed an engineer (M) to 
inspect their property in June 2020. M provided a report for Aviva to consider, and he further 
clarified that in his opinion there was subsidence caused by downward movement of the 
ground underneath the property.
Aviva considered Ms report alongside previous site reports done in 2014 and 2016 but didnt 
think it showed the damage was new, rather that it was a continuation of the historic damage 
in the property. It also said that whilst it acknowledged some of the damage had only 
recently been discovered, it felt it would have been reasonably discovered earlier had further 
site investigations been done following the previous reports. So it didnt accept any liability 
for the damage.
Unhappy with Avivas position, Mr C and Ms C referred the complaint to our service. In 
summary, Mr C and Ms C said:
Avivas decision to class the damage as historic was based on a 2014 report which 
included observations only; no investigations or works were done as a result of these 
observations as they were outside the remit of the report.
Ms report showed the property wasnt moving in 2016 after a year of being 
monitored. So any progressive subsidence must have happened since then. Mr C 
and Ms C added that Aviva were aware of this claim when they took them onto the 
policy as they raised the policy excess for any future subsidence claims.
Avivas own engineers had decided the claim based on a desktop assessment. No-
one had visited the property to take or compare measurements. In contrast M based 
their report on a site visit and compared measurements to previous reports to show 
that new movement had occurred.
Avivas comments that the damage may have been found earlier had investigations 
been done wasnt accurate because the soil was only recently starting to settle in that 
area. So it was more likely that this damage was recent and covered by the current 
policy.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
found the 2016 report persuasive in showing the property was stable and there was no 
evidence of subsidence taking place. They were persuaded by Ms report which they 
concluded showed that the property had moved since the policy came into force in 2016. 
Our investigator acknowledged that there was damage at the property which Aviva wouldnt 
be responsible for as it happened before Mr C and Ms Cs policy started. But they werent 
persuaded by Avivas findings that all the damage be excluded as it had assessed the claim 
remotely without any visit to the property. As such they recommended Aviva take 
responsibility for putting right the new damage, and for ensuring the property is stable.
Mr C and Ms C accepted our investigators findings. Aviva disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It said its engineers had all the information needed to make a 
decision remotely so there was no requirement for it to do a site visit.
Our investigator responded and maintained their position that the claim be accepted. They 
added that Mr C and Ms C should be reimbursed for Ms report which showed the extent of 
the current damage, as this had been used to determine they had a valid claim.
Mr C and Ms C then asked if their legal fees could be refunded for the advice theyd sought, 
but our investigator didnt agree. They found it wasnt reasonable to ask Aviva to cover any 
legal costs.
Mr C and Ms C provided some final comments for the ombudsman to consider. In summary 
they said:
Aviva should be made to comply with all the recommendations in Ms report, which 
included underpinning the property.
They were concerned that if Aviva werent held to these recommendations then the 
claim could drag on for years.
They were concerned Aviva wouldnt address all of the new and ongoing damage if 
they were given an opportunity to further investigate the property.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether the decision Aviva has made to decline the claim is fair 
and reasonable based on the evidence available. And if Aviva has relied on an exclusion in 
Mr C and Ms Cs policy to decline the claim, it needs to show that the exclusion fairly 
applies. If I dont think it was, Ill set out what Aviva needs to do to put things right.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Ill 
set out my reasons why below.
Avivas position is that the damage being claimed for has all occurred long before the 
inception of the Policy. It says it is clear there was widespread subsidence or settlement 
damage to the property which was apparent in both 2014 and 2016. Aviva has further stated 
the cracking damage evident is not considered to have occurred as result of either recent or 
progressive subsidence movement. And it has also suggested that some of the damage 
would have been discovered earlier had further investigations been carried out following the 
reports.
Ive read all of the reports linked to this claim to get an understanding of the original 
condition of the property. And I agree that there was a degree of historic damage present in 
2014 and 2016 which wouldnt be fair to require Aviva to cover. But I do find that Avivas 
decision to bracket all of the damage under this is unreasonable. Ill explain why.
Aviva was aware there was a subsidence claim ongoing when it took on Mr C and Ms Cs 
policy in 2016. This is evidenced by an increased subsidence excess on the policy, so its 
fair to say Aviva was aware of the risk it was underwriting at this point. Our services position 
on claims such as this is that if movement has occurred during the term of the policy then the 
insurer should deal with the damage caused, unless it can show the movement started and 
finished before the policy came into force.
I think the 2016 report is clear in showing that whilst there were areas of historic damage to 
the property, at the time of inspection and monitoring the property was stable and there were 
no concerns raised about ongoing damage. This is supported by the report stating in many 
areas that there is no sign of any cracking that would be consistent with recent subsidence 
movement. And the monitoring results provided a few months later state the readings have 
recorded no movement of any significance and indeed your property has remained stable 
since monitoring began in January 2016.
I think this means the property was deemed stable in late 2016 and once Avivas policy was 
in force. So I consider that any new damage that can be clearly identified falls under Avivas 
responsibility and should therefore be accepted as a claim.
Ive considered Ms report to see if any new damage is highlighted. M draws a comparison 
between previous damage to the date of the report and I find it clearly shows where new 
damage has occurred. I say this because Ms report details the measurements of existing 
cracks, and the identification of new cracks which arent apparent on previous reports. M 
states that In 9 of the 10 locations considered cracks have increased in width and makes a 
direct comparison to the 2016 measurements.M concludes that this suggests the ground underneath the property is consolidating and 
meets the definition of subsidence. They conclude that if the damage was caused by 
settlement, then the movement would reduce over time as the soil becomes more 
compacted. But they state that in this case the opposite is happening as the cracks get wider 
and more frequent.
I find Ms position persuasive here. Ive not seen anything to show the 2016 claim wasnt 
dealt with appropriately at the time, and as such theres no evidence to show that the new 
damage identified is related to a previous or historic issue. So I will require Aviva to deal with 
this claim and take responsibility for any new and ongoing damage. 
If there are areas of the property where the only way Aviva can repair the new damage is by 
also repairing the historic damage, then it must do this in order to achieve an effective and 
lasting repair.
I understand Mr C and Ms C have concerns about Avivas ongoing involvement in the claim, 
and theyd like the property to be underpinned as set out in Ms recommendations. But its 
reasonable in this case for Aviva to have an opportunity to put things right. And its also 
reasonable for it to consider the most cost-effective way to complete an effective and lasting 
repair for the damage it is responsible for. So I wont be setting out a direction for how Aviva 
achieves this repair as that would be a matter for its engineers to decide.
Mr C and Ms C paid M to complete the report and submitted this to Aviva. Ive used the 
same report to determine that there is a valid claim. So it follows that Aviva should reimburse 
Mr C and Ms C for the cost of this report subject to proof (such as an invoice) being provided 
as evidence of the cost to Mr C and Ms C. 
I dont find it reasonable to require Aviva to refund any legal costs Mr C and Ms C incurred 
as I can see their policy doesnt provide cover for this. Seeking legal advice is done at an 
individuals discretion. So whilst I acknowledge Mr C and Ms C were going through a difficult 
time in trying to get their claim approved, it wouldnt be fair for Aviva to pay for any advice 
they were given.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr C and Ms C, Aviva must:
Accept Mr C and Ms Cs claim, subject to any other policy terms and clauses (such 
as an excess);
Reimburse Mr C and Ms C for Ms report;
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the report, from the date Mr C and Ms C paid 
for it to the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman