DRN-3595537
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he paid to an 
investment company, T, who he now thinks were a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In mid-2020, Mr M started using T, who he understood to be offering a trading platform. He 
paid them just over £14,000. But he says they blocked his withdrawal request, then in early 
2021 they stopped responding to him. He reported to Santander that hed been scammed  
but it wouldnt accept liability for his loss. When he referred the matter to our service, our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As Mr M disagrees, the matter has now been 
escalated to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable 
for payments they authorise. Barclays is expected to process authorised payment 
instructions without undue delay. As I know Mr M is aware, it also has long-standing 
duties to help protect customers from financial harm from fraud and scams. But those 
are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam.
Theres a high legal threshold for this. It wouldnt necessarily be enough that T were 
promoting high-risk investments using methods that were arguably unethical and/or 
misleading. In line with the Fraud Act 2006, Im considering whether it can 
reasonably be shown that T dishonestly made a false representation and/or failed to 
disclose information with the intention of making a gain for themselves, or causing 
loss to Mr M, or exposing him to the risk of loss. 
T were  and still are  regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySec). They had passporting rights to operate under that 
authorisation in the UK. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) were Ts host 
regulator and T appeared on the FCA register. It would be unusual for a scammer to 
comply with all the various requirements of becoming regulated. It also means Mr M 
has the option to pursue a complaint against T directly  and may be able to pursue 
this through the Cypriot Financial Ombudsman if no resolution is reached.  
The FCA subsequently placed restrictions on T, requiring it not to market in the UK to 
carry on regulated activities for clients in the UK. But a regulator may place 
restrictions on a company for activity falling short of being a fraud or scam. Ive not 
seen anything that shows the FCA deemed T a scam. So overall, I cant safely 
conclude that Mr M was scammed  rather than his loss being attributable to losses 
from genuine, high risk investments.   
Without there being a scam to protect against, theres no obligation for Santander to 
intervene with Mr Ms authorised payment instructions. Its not expected to protect 
against bad bargains, nor to give investment advice. 
Regardless, even if this was a scam, Im not persuaded Santander would have 
prevented Mr Ms loss if it had intervened with the payments and questioned him 
about them  as wed expect it to do if it identified a fraud risk. Such questioning 
would likely have revealed that T were properly regulated to operate in the UK and 
were listed on the FCA register. I think that would reasonably have alleviated any 
fraud concerns. To conclude otherwise would suggest Santander ought to have 
identified concerns before its own regulator  as the FCA didnt place any restrictions 
on T until May 2021. Overall, I dont think Santander ought reasonably to have 
prevented Mr T from making these payments. 
Ive also considered Santanders response when Mr M raised his dispute. As these 
were card payments, they were covered by the voluntary chargeback scheme. This is 
a process for settling payment disputes. Claims are considered under rules set by the 
card scheme provider. So the types of disputes that can be considered, and the 
evidence/requirements for these to succeed, arent determined by the bank. 
There are limited chargeback options for investment disputes. There is a chargeback 
option for cardholders who are prevented from withdrawing their available balances 
from investment platforms  which is what Mr M says happened to him. As the 
scheme is voluntary, banks arent obliged to raise chargeback claims. But Id 
consider it good practice to do so if the claim was likely to succeed. 
The maximum time limit for such a claim would have been 120 days from when the 
service (i.e. the withdrawal) was expected, subject to a maximum of 540 days from 
the transaction. And the most that can be charged back is the amount deposited; you 
cant chargeback winnings. But its also capped at the available balance of the 
trading account. So if money is lost, only what remains can be charged back. And the 
only dated record Ive seen of Mr Ms account (from January 2021) shows an 
available balance of $182.58  significantly limiting what he may have been able to 
claim. And hed also need to provide the following for a claim to succeed: 
Evidence that he tried to resolve the matter with T directly, and that he 
cancelled their services if that was unsuccessful.
Dated evidence that he had funds available to withdraw on the day he 
requested the withdrawal. Such as a screenshot or an email from the 
merchant acknowledging a withdrawal request with the available balance on 
the account included, as well as the withdrawal amount.  
Evidence he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available 
in the investment account. And that this was wrongly refused.Santander explained in its final response that, during a call in March 2021, it advised 
Mr M to try to resolve the matter with T before raising a claim through Santander. I 
think that was fair as, in line with the criteria above, that was a requirement of the 
chargeback scheme. But Santander didnt hear back from Mr M for several months, 
by which point he was too late to claim (bearing in mind that the maximum 540 day 
timeframe only applies if the claim is also within 120 days from when the consumer 
was expecting the service  such as a withdrawal). Furthermore, even if raised on 
time, the evidence Mr M holds about his dispute with T doesnt meet the remaining 
criteria set out above. Ive no record of the withdrawal request or any reasons for 
denying it, nor evidence of what was available at the time of his request.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider it fair to hold Santander liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman