DRN-3292027
The complaint
Mr K complains about his bank TSB Bank Plc. He says it didnt do enough to prevent the 
financial harm caused to him by an investment scammer.
What happened
Mr K was out of work and looking to invest monies hed received from an endowment policy. 
He intended to repay his mortgage but didnt have enough to do so and decided to search 
for a short-term investment opportunity. He saw an internet advert for government-backed 
HMO bonds which offered good quarterly and annual returns with a company Ill refer to as 
C Ltd.
He spoke with a representative of C Ltd over several weeks and built up a good relationship 
with him. He believed he was entering into a legitimate investment opportunity so he 
invested £20,000 on 7 March 2018 followed by £5,000 on 28 March 2018.
Mr K says he carried out due diligence checks with Companies House and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) however C Ltd had cloned the legitimate companys details, which 
he was unaware of.
A few weeks after Mr K invested with C Ltd, he tried contacting the representative hed 
previously spoken with but was unable to reach him. Mr K became concerned and saw that 
the FCA had published information that C Ltd was operating as a clone of a genuine 
company.
Mr K reported the scam to TSB on 30 May 2018 and says it failed to act until 2 July 2018. Mr 
K complained that TSB didnt act quickly enough and should have carried out further checks 
on his payments before sending them. The matter has caused Mr K considerable distress as 
he faces the risk of having his home repossessed.
TSB acknowledge that it didnt act quickly enough when Mr K reported the scam and paid Mr 
K £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It didnt think it could have prevented the 
scam.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators thought TSB should 
refund the money. He thought the payments were sufficiently unusual for Mr K and TSB 
ought to have carried out further checks which would have likely uncovered the scam.
TSB disagreed. It said it was normal for Mr K to use savings to fund his account just before 
making a payment and provided the following examples of Mr Ks payment history:
Date Amount of funds deposited 
to cover paymentAmount of subsequent 
payment out.
3 January 2017 £6,110 £6,110
14 March 2017 £4,160 £4,160
4 April 2017 £3,270 and £1,900 £3,270 and £1,900
18 April 2017 £7,690 £7,690
30 May 2017 £34,703.80 and £4,080 £35,000 and £4080.
21 June 2017 £4,890 £4,890
28 July 2017 £3,645 £3,645
2 August 2017 £3,935 £3,935
11 August 2017 £5,000 and £2,130 £5,000 and £2,130
25/29 August 2017 £2,275 and £4,000 £2,275 and £4,000
5 October 2017 £14,597.84 £14,600
6 October 2017 £2,260 £2,260
20 November 2017 £10,000 £9,859
12 / 17 January 2018 £20,000 £20,000
27/28 February 2018 £4,000 £4,000
It therefore didnt agree (after reviewing his account activity over 12 months) that the pattern 
of the payments to C Ltd was all that unusual for him
TSB said that if it had been in touch with Mr K about his payments to C Ltd, it would have 
been satisfied that he was dealing with the legitimate investment firm, not the clone, as there 
was no adverse information at the point he made his payments. Further to this, Mr K had 
spoken with the firm in the weeks leading up to his payments and had carried out his own 
due diligence checks; so he would have been sufficiently satisfied they were legitimate.
On 21 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Could TSB have done more to recover the loss?
I think TSB took too long to act on Mr Ks report of being the victim of a scam. It ought to 
have contacted the beneficiary banks as soon as possible following his report. So, Ive 
looked at information provided by the beneficiary banks to see if this would have made a 
difference.
I dont think TSBs failure to act makes a material difference to its likelihood of being able to 
recover Mr Ks payments. Ive seen that other victims banks were in touch with the 
beneficiary banks prior to Mr K reporting the scam to TSB and the beneficiary had already 
advised those banks that no funds remained in the account. I therefore think if TSB had 
acted quickly after Mr Ks report, it would have received the same response from the 
beneficiary banks.
Could TSB have done more to prevent the losses?
Im satisfied Mr K authorised these payments even though he was the victim of a scam and 
was carrying them out under the scammers instruction. He made the payments himself 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, and the terms and conditions of his account. 
So Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
TSB should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered here whether I think any of the payments to C Ltd were so unusual, 
suspicious or out of character that I think TSB ought to have intervened and carried out 
further checks.
TSB has to strike a balance between taking steps to prevent fraud and unreasonably 
interfering with an individuals account to the extent it delays or prevents legitimate 
payments. I wouldnt expect it to check every transaction or carry out further checks every 
time a transaction is slightly higher than usual.
Ive noted that Mr K commonly funded his account with savings just before making a 
payment out of it. He did so prior to making each payment to C Ltd. And after reviewing his 
spend in the year leading up to his payments to C Ltd, they dont appear unusual next to 
other large payments he made. The payments were made three weeks apart, so I dont think 
TSB could have identified an unusual pattern of payments to new payees emerging. So I 
dont agree that the payments ought to have been flagged as suspicious with TSB.
But even if I did think they were unusual, I dont think TSB could have prevented Mr K from 
making the payments. He had carried out his own checks on C Ltd and was satisfied they 
were legitimate. He had a friendly relationship with the representative of C Ltd and was 
satisfied they were genuine. There isnt anything else I could reasonably have expected TSB 
to say to Mr K given that hed already taken steps to carry out due diligence on C Ltd. TSB 
werent to know that Mr K wasnt dealing with the genuine C Ltd as there were no warnings 
about them at the time he made his payments. So even if I did agree that TSB should have 
flagged the transactions to C Ltd as suspicious (which I dont) I dont think any potential 
warning from it would have made a difference to Mr Ks decision to invest with them.
I do think it was appropriate for TSB to pay Mr K compensation for its failure to act when he 
reported the fraud. I think the compensation paid already is fair and reasonable given its 
failings and I make no further award of compensation on this point.
Im very sorry to have heard about whats happened to Mr K and the impact this situation 
has had on him. But I dont think TSB missed an opportunity to prevent the payments he 
made to scammers, so I dont intend to ask it to reimburse him for his losses.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt have anything further to add to my provisional decision.
 
Mr K responded, he was understandably still aggrieved by the whole episode and wanted to 
add some further information. In summary he said:TSB failed to act or take action in the first instance of the scam being reported, so we 
will never know if this would have made a difference and throws an element of doubt 
into the case.
TSB has cherry picked a snap shot of some of his previous transactions back to 2017 
which does not reflect the true picture at all and should have given transactions 
closer to the date in 2018 or nearer to the date of the payments in question. 
In 2010, Mr K started a business and had a personal account and subsequent 
business account with TSB/Lloyds and in 2013 Lloyds/TSB split and Lloyds moved to 
a different branch, so whenever he would deposit money over the counter, he was 
charged fees. To bypass the fees and after consulting a branch manager, with his 
approval, he used his personal account to deposit monies and then using online 
banking transferred this to his other accounts, i.e. savings and business all of which 
was in his name. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I acknowledge that some of the payment examples provided by TSB went to accounts that 
Mr K had previously paid and I understand his reasons for using his account this way. But it 
still follows that the pattern of the transactions, i.e. a transfer of funds into the account 
followed by an immediate transfer out were in keeping with how Mr K used his account. I 
dont think a one-off larger payment of £20,000 to a new payee (which followed a similar 
pattern as Mr Ks previous larger payments out of his account) would have been sufficiently 
unusual for TSB to have intervened. The subsequent payment of £5,000 to another new 
payee was almost three weeks after his first payment, it also wasnt a particularly unusual 
amount for him, so I dont think there are sufficient grounds for me to have concluded that 
TSB ought to have intervened.
But as I explained in my provisional decision, even if I did think that TSB ought to have 
intervened at the point of Mr Ks initial payment (which I dont reasonably think it should 
have), Mr K would have explained he was investing into an investment company that was 
FCA regulated and hed carried out his own due diligence. I dont think TSB would have had 
cause to suspect a fraud or a scam because there was no information available at the time 
of Mr Ks payments that indicated the legitimate company Mr K thought he was dealing with 
had been cloned. So I dont think an intervention would have made any difference. 
I do take Mr Ks point that we are not to know what might have happened if TSB acted 
quicker. So, Ive obtained some specific information from the recipient banks. In relation to 
Mr Ks £20,000 payment, the recipient bank account had a £0 balance on 18 April 2018. This 
was prior to Mr K contacting TSB, so even if it had acted quicker, it wouldnt have made a 
difference. In relation to Mr Ks payment of £5,000, the recipient bank confirmed that these 
funds were credited to the account at 01:35am on 28 March 2018 and transferred out on the 
same day at 06:36am. I realise this wont give Mr K comfort given the significant sums hes 
lost but I do hope this assures him that it wouldnt have made a difference even if TSB had 
acted quicker.
I am sorry that Mr K lost his money this way but I dont find that TSB ought to have done 
anything differently in relation to intervening in the disputed payments. It should have acted 
quicker once it was notified of the scam and Im satisfied the compensation paid was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ks loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman