DRN-2868558
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr L. Santander has taken responsibility for the complaint, so Ill refer to it 
as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2005 to cover a loan. Santander sold Mr L 
the policy when he applied for the loan by phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr L says he didnt want the PPI but was pressured into getting it. He says the adviser told 
him he had to take the PPI or he wouldnt get the loan. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer still has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have 
no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And this did happen about 16 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember all the details of something that long ago  so it might 
not be fair for me to rely only on what they now recall. And it wouldnt be fair to say 
Santander did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of it. 
Also, Ive seen a sales script which advisers were meant to follow, and this does clearly set 
out the PPI as a choice; it offers the loan with and without the PPI, and also a reminder you 
can change your mind. Of course, I dont know if the adviser followed this script, but it does 
at least suggest that advisers were trained to say such things. 
But, overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to show that Santander acted wrongly in 
the way Mr L believes. 
Santander didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Ls individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It was for Mr L 
to decide if it suited his needs.
Its difficult now to know how well Santander explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Santander gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think 
its likely fuller information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the 
PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI 
seem less useful. The PPI would have paid out on top of any work sick pay or redundancy 
pay, and it could have made Mr L more financially secure if he lost earnings due to long-term 
sickness or redundancy. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the 
significant exclusions in the policy. 
So, overall, I dont have good enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. This means 
Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But Santander has 
arranged to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has arranged to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander Consumer (UK) Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Santander Consumer (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman