DRN-3590168
The complaint
Ms H is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Halifax) hasnt refunded an amount she 
paid on her Halifax credit card for a sporting event.
What happened
Ms H bought two tickets to attend a sporting event for her and her husband. The tickets cost 
around £500. She also separately bought flights, hotel stay and car hire through a separate 
provider.
Due to the impact of Covid-19, her flights were cancelled. She received a refund for what 
she paid for the flights, hotel and car hire. She approached the company who sold the event 
tickets for a refund, but they said she wasnt entitled to a refund. So she contacted Halifax to 
dispute the payment. Halifax processed a chargeback, but the supplier of the event 
responded to say the event went ahead and Ms H could have used the ticket. And it said she 
wasnt entitled to a refund. Following this, Halifax responded to say it wasnt going to pursue 
the chargeback any further. Ms H was unhappy so referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought Halifax had handled the 
chargeback claim fairly. She also didnt think Halifax was liable to refund anything under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
Ms H didnt think the investigators opinion was fair as she didnt think it was fair she was out 
of pocket due to no fault of her own.
As Ms H didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ms H is complaining about the way Halifax handled a dispute over a payment she made to a 
third party for a sporting event. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction 
made on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  
chargeback and S75. I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Ill consider 
both avenues separately.
Chargeback 
As Ms H paid for the holiday by card, there are certain circumstances in which Halifax might 
be able to recover her money through the chargeback process. 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the individual card scheme provider. The two main possible rules she 
could potentially have a chargeback right in this case are  service not provided or credit 
not received. 
In this instance Ms H looked to receive a refund of the tickets because she was unable to 
travel. Halifax initially processed the chargeback, but the supplier responded to defend the 
claim. It said the event went ahead. It acknowledged the capacity was reduced, but Ms Hs 
ticket was valid.
I appreciate Ms H was unable to travel due to travel restrictions owing to Covid-19. But the 
service was available to use had she been able to travel. And its not the suppliers fault that 
she was unable to travel. Furthermore, the terms of the contract set out that it was a non-
cancellable contract. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to not pursue the claim 
further, given Im satisfied the service was made available to Ms H and I dont think there 
was anything to show she was entitled to a refund.
Section 75
Ms H paid for ticket on her Halifax credit card. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as 
the finance provider, Halifax is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
I recognise Ms H is unhappy shes out of pocket due to no fault of her own. But, Halifax is 
only liable to refund this loss if the supplier of the tickets has breached the terms of the 
contract or misrepresented what will be provided. I appreciate Ms H was unable to travel, but 
the event went ahead, so the supplier provided what it was required to do under the terms of 
the contract. Furthermore, the terms of the contract set out that it was a non-cancellable 
contract. So, while Ms H wasnt able to travel, the supplier wasnt required to refund the 
amount she paid. Given this, I cant say it was unreasonable that Halifax didnt refund the 
cost of the tickets.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman