DRN-4085205
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a used car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement (agreement) with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMFL).
What happened
On 8 September 2020 the car was subject to an MOT test (recorded milage 51,301). An 
MOT test certificate was refused for the following reason:
exhaust hydrocarbon content after 2nd fast idle exceeds default limits
On 9 September 2020 the car was subject to an MOT test (recorded mileage 51,306). The 
MOT test certificate noted the following advisory:
Front Tyre worn close to legal limit/worn on edge both front n/s and o/s wearing on edges
On 24 September 2021 the car was subject to an MOT test (recorded mileage 58,016). The 
MOT test certificate noted the following advisories:
Tyre worn close to legal limit/worn on edge Offside Front (wearing on outer edges)
Tyre worn close to legal limit/worn on edge Nearside Front (wearing on outer edges)
Exhaust emits blue smoke during acceleration
On 22 November 2021 Miss B acquired the car at a cost of £5,789.00 (recorded mileage 
58,013) under an agreement with BMFL.
Under the terms of the agreement Miss B undertook  everything else being equal  to make 
59 monthly payments of £145.24 followed by 1 monthly payment of £146.24 making a total 
repayable of £8,715.40 at an APR of 18.9%.
On 25 April 2022 Miss B paid a garage that I will call P £198.70 for diagnostics, a coil pack, 
a lead set and spark plugs (recorded mileage 59,103).
On 25 May 2022 Miss B paid P £70.20 for a new tyre (recorded mileage 59,597).
On 24 June 2022 Miss B paid P £45.72 for an oil check and top up (recorded mileage 
59,811). 
On 31 October 2022 the car was subject to an MOT test (recorded milage 60,181). An MOT 
test certificate was refused for the following reasons:
exhaust carbon monoxide content after 2nd fast idle exceeds manufacturers specified limits
exhaust hydrocarbon content after 2nd fast idle exceeds default limits
On 30 November 2022 Miss B obtained a report from P (recoded mileage 60,186). This 
report stated:
Miss fire on No 2 cylinder, causing spark plug to oil up due to No 2 piston damage. Vehicle 
will not go through exhaust and emission test. When the vehicle was MOT last year, on the 
Advisory it had exhaust emits blue smoke during acceleration. In are opinion this vehicle 
should never been sold to the customer. Repairs will be a new engine. 
On 1 November 2022 Miss B complained to BMFL that she had been supplied with a car 
that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
On 30 November 2022 BMFL issued Miss B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover 
of this FRL BMFL advised Miss B it wasnt upholding her complaint.
On 9 January 2023 BMFL emailed Miss B to say it was still not upholding her complaint. 
On 11 January 2023 BMFL sent Miss B details of her agreement exit options (early 
settlement and voluntary termination). The cost of voluntary termination was noted as being 
£2,469.58 plus damage and repair charges and the early settlement figure was noted as 
being £5,098.27.
On 11 January 2023, and unhappy with BMFLs FRL and email dated 9 January 2023, 
Miss B complained to our service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it should be 
upheld. He then went on to explain what he thought BMFL should have to do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate Miss B.
Miss B accepted the investigators view, but BMFL didnt. And because of the latter Miss Bs 
complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence provided and the wider circumstances.
Miss B entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. Under regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, BMFL can be held liable if the car supplied 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the car and includes assessing whether the car was 
sufficiently durable.
In this case the car was approximately 8 years old. And the price was lower than that of a 
new car. So, its reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of 
wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner 
than a newer car. 
BMFL submits that Miss B has provided insufficient evidence that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied to her, especially given that she didnt complain about 
the cars quality for nearly a year.I appreciate that Miss B hasnt supplied an independent inspection report of the type BMFL 
asked for. But having provided comment from P about the car, the cars MOT history and the 
miles on the odometer in November 2021 and then October 2022, Im satisfied that Miss B 
provided enough evidence to support her submission that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied to her. I certainly think that she provided enough evidence for the onus 
to switch from her (to establish the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied) to BMFL 
(to establish that the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied). And for the avoidance of 
doubt, Im not persuaded that BMFL should be given the opportunity to establish the car was 
of satisfactory quality when supplied now given how long this complaint has been going on.
BMFL also submits that the car passed its MOT test in September 2021 (albeit with 
advisories) meaning the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply. If it wasnt, it would 
not have passed It also submits that a cars MOT history is a matter of public record and 
therefore Miss B should have reasonably known about its history.
First, as Im sure BMFL will be aware, just because a car passes an MOT test doesnt mean 
its of satisfactory quality. Secondly, although I accept that Miss B could have checked the 
cars MOT history it could be said that given that the car passed its MOT test only 2 months 
prior to it being sold by the dealership it could and should have carried out an investigation 
into the noted advisories and carried out repairs as necessary.
In this case although the car was approximately 8 years old when Miss B acquired it, it had 
done only 58,000 miles. Furthermore, when the car failed its MOT test (in October 2022) and 
P diagnosed a new engine was required (in November 2022), Miss B had added only 3,000 
further miles to the odometer.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Miss B, between acquiring the car and it failing its 
September 2021 MOT test, failed to take reasonable care of it with evidence having been 
supplied of routine maintenance work being undertaken. And for the avoidance of doubt I, 
like the investigator, am not persuaded that Miss B could and should have had the 
advisories noted on the September 2021 MOT test certificate investigated, or that she 
should have thought to bring any concerns about the cars quality to BMFLs attention before 
she did so.
So having had regard to everything the parties have said and submitted, and what I say 
above, Im satisfied that Miss B was supplied with a car that had historical issues with the 
exhaust and engine that either went unrepaired or were subject to unsatisfactory repairs. 
And these issues meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to Miss B and 
resulted in what now appears to be a complete engine failure that is simply uneconomical to 
repair. Im also satisfied that Miss B has taken reasonable care of the car whilst it has been 
in her possession.
As Ive found that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I find it fair that Miss B is allowed to 
exit her agreement with nothing further owing and that any payments she has made since 
the car failed its MOT test on 31 October 2002 are refunded due to the car not being usable 
from that date. 
This issue has caused Miss B distress and inconvenience as she has been left with a car 
that she has been paying for but unable to use. She has also been trying to resolve matters 
since November 2022. Given this, I find our investigators recommendation of £250 
compensation to be appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and find that Blue Motor Finance Ltd must end the agreement with nothing further for Miss B to have to pay
collect the car from Miss B at no cost to her and at a time that is mutually convenient
refund Miss B any payments she has made against the agreement since 
31 October 2022
pay Miss B interest on the above refunds at the rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement*
pay Miss B £250.00 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused 
her
ask credit reference agencies to mark the agreement as settled in full and to remove 
any recorded adverse information  
Blue Motor Finance Ltd must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
Miss B accepts this final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
£250.00 from the date of this final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple 
per year.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance Ltd to deduct tax from these interest 
payments. If Miss B asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be 
provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman