DRN-2944404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A said they first noticed a leak in the porch in December 2020 and at this time 
they also noticed timber from the front porch had torn off. They called a roofer to inspect it 
and followed his advice to replace some roof tiles. However, at the end of January/ early 
February 2021 after a period of heavy rain, the leak returned.
Mr and Mrs A tried to call AXA over a two-week period to make a claim but couldnt get 
through. They also tried to make a claim online but were unable. On 15 February 2021 
Mr and Mrs A were able to make a claim on their home insurance policy. They told AXA that 
the roof had been leaking over the front porch and rear bedroom and water had been leaking 
on the carpet in the bedroom. They said this occurred around the beginning of February 
2021 and thought it may have been due to storm damage.
AXA apologised for the inconvenience and delays Mr and Mrs A had experienced with trying 
to register their claim and compensated them £50. They also sent a loss adjuster to assess 
the damage and later declined the claim. They said the damage was caused due to 
materials breaking down over period of time rather than a one-off storm event. 
Mr and Mrs A disagree, theyve said the surveyors assessment didnt consider clear 
evidence of storm or rain damage. Our investigator looked into it but didnt uphold the 
complaint. She felt AXA had declined the claim fairly as there wasnt any evidence of storm. 
Mr and Mrs A asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr and Mrs A's complaint. I know this isn't 
the outcome they hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
AXA have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whilst there was a delay in 
Mr and Mrs A being able to register their claim, AXA apologised and awarded £50 which
they were happy with. When assessing a claim, AXA shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality and the terms and conditions of 
the policy set out what is and isnt covered so its important they are reviewed at the time of 
purchase to ensure they meet the level of cover required.
Insurance policies generally cover unexpected, unfortunate accidents or events but theyre 
not there to repair or replace where areas are worn out or beyond its useful life through age 
or deterioration.
In Mr and Mrs A policy the only insured events related to the damage caused would be 
storm. And Mr and Mrs A have said they dont think the loss adjuster considered the 
evidence of this. The policy defines storm as:
a period of violent weather where wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph)* 
or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25 mm per hour or snow to a depth of at least one 
foot (30cms) in 24 hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces 
or breaks glass
When considering complaints related to storm there are three main things we consider: 
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
To uphold the complaint I need to be satisfied that the answer to all three of these questions 
is yes. 
When considering the first question, Ive taken account of the weather reports between 
December 2020 up to the point of claim in February 2021 as Mr and Mrs A couldnt be sure 
at which point during this time the damage may have occurred. The strongest gust during 
this time, in the relevant area, was 46 mph and I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to 
conclude that this level of wind isnt a storm. The policy terms define storm as wind speeds 
with gusts of at least 55 mph so Im satisfied this sits outside the term and therefore doesnt 
constitute a storm.
There was some rainfall during this time, but weather reports show this didnt go over 5mm 
per hour in the relevant area. The policy defines torrential rain as a rate of least 25 mm per 
hour. So, Im also satisfied that this also doesnt constitute a storm under the policy terms. 
So, the answer to question one is no.
Before declining the claim AXA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He prepared a 
report including photos. It was their opinion that the damage to the front porch was caused 
by a gradual breakdown of materials over a long period of time. And when assessing the 
damage to the rear lead flat roof above the bedroom window they found the lead was in a 
poor state of repair with large tears in the material which in their opinion also happened over 
a long period of time. Inside the bedroom they said there was evidence of staining due to 
rainwater ingress via the failed roof, which would also indicate this happening over a 
prolonged period of time.
The loss adjuster concluded there was no evidence of any external storm damage which 
could be attributed to a single insured event. They said the damage has been ongoing over 
a long period of time and in terms of the internal damage, there was no evidence of any 
damage caused by an insured event.
Based on the loss adjusters report AXA declined the claim as they felt the damage wasnt 
due to a one-off storm event but due to material break down and wear and tear over a period 
of time, which was excluded under the policy.
Having considered the report and all the information provided, including the additional 
photos Mr and Mrs A provided, as well as local weather reports around the time in question. 
Im satisfied AXA have been fair in their assessment and come to a reasonable conclusion. 
The policy doesnt cover wear and tear or gradual deterioration and clearly identifies this as 
an uninsurable risk. Mr and Mrs A have said the loss adjuster didnt consider evidence of storm such as the 
timber coming away from the porch and rain damage. Whilst there wasnt a specific 
comment in relation to the timber in the report there was a photograph of the porch which 
showed the damaged timber. The loss adjuster did say, in their opinion, there was no 
evidence of any damage which can be attributed to a single identifiable insured peril. The 
photograph also showed evidence of ingress of water over a period of time. So, Im satisfied 
it was considered. And as there were no weather conditions around that time to constitute a 
storm, Im satisfied this is reasonable.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman