DRN-3479884
The complaint
A charity Ill refer to as E has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close its shops due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
H, a firm of solicitors, is representing E in this complaint.
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates a number of charity 
shops.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 E closed 
its shops from 23 March 2020.
E claimed on the policy. 
RSA declined the claim. It said that E hadnt shown that thered been a case of Covid-19 at 
the premises before Government restrictions came into force and the shops had closed. 
H brought Es complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt recommend 
it be upheld. She thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She said there was nothing to suggest that E had closed its 
business due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
E asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Es shops. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Es claim.
The most relevant part of Es policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses resulting 
from:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order or advice of any local or 
governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of:
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease, an outbreak of which is required by law 
or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified,
B) Food or drink poisoning
C) Vermin or pests
D) Defective sanitation
Its not in dispute that Covid-19 is a notifiable human contagious or infectious disease. H and 
RSA disagree about whether there had to be an outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises. 
In summary H has argued that:
Cover applied in the event of (a) an outbreak or (b) an occurrence at the premises. H 
asserts that it is not a requirement of the policy that an outbreak has to take place at 
the premises.
An outbreak at the premises must include an occurrence at the premises. If RSAs 
interpretation were correct (namely that there had to be a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises), there would be no need for the words an outbreak as every situation 
would be covered by the words an occurrence at the Premises. So an outbreak 
and an occurrence at the Premises must be separate and alternative requirements.
If the policy wording is ambiguous, it should be interpreted in Es favour.
This policy wording was included in the list drawn up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) of business interruption insurance policies capable of responding to 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
However, I am not persuaded by Hs argument. I dont think a reasonable person would 
have interpreted the wording in this way at the time the policy was taken out. The clause lists 
a number of different events, some of which are more similar to others. Some of them are 
more likely to be an outbreak e.g. vermin and pests, some an occurrence and some could be 
either. But I think it is clear that the requirement that the outbreak or occurrence of the 
relevant event should be at Es premises applies to all of them as opposed to, say, a local 
outbreak.
Its settled law broadly speaking that where the wording of a contract is ambiguous, any 
ambiguity should be read in favour of the policyholder. I understand this argument but I dont 
think this wording is ambiguous. 
The FCA has published a list of policies assessed by insurers as, in principle, capable of 
responding to Covid-19. But, as the FCA has pointed out, inclusion in this list does not mean 
that a claim under such a policy will necessarily be valid. Each policy wording and 
policyholders circumstances will have to be considered on a case by case basis.
In summary, for this extension to provide cover in these circumstances, I think a reasonable 
interpretation is that the policy requires the closure of the business premises by a 
competent authority due to a case of a notifiable infectious disease at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
H has said that one person working for E had symptoms of Covid-19 before the shop closed 
and three other workers were advised to self-isolate. I have to bear in mind that many of the 
people who were unwell in March 2020 didnt have Covid-19. And given that I only have Hs 
testimony to support the fact that one of Es workers most likely had Covid-19, I dont think 
its sufficiently convincing to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Es 
premises before they were required to close. As such, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
RSA not to accept that there was a case of Covid-19 at Es shops before they were required 
to close.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Es claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman