DRN-4241686
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mr J says that he received a call from someone claiming to be from a company Ill refer to as 
T in this decision. The representative of T said that T placed bets on horse races and Mr J 
could earn profit of 20 to 40% a month. Mr J started with small payments but received 
monthly statements and regular contact about how his investment was performing which led 
him to increase the amounts he paid. I have set out the payments Mr J made in the table 
below:
Date Amount
27/01/21 £200
09/04/21 £300
10/05/21 £300
03/11/21 £750
07/12/21 £2,500
Total £4,050
Mr J says that on the days bets were placed he would receive information on a messaging 
app, including an update at the end of the day.
Mr J realised he was the victim of a scam when he was given excuses about why he couldnt 
withdraw funds and then Ts website disappeared, and he was unable to make contact. He 
reported the scam to Lloyds in mid-January 2023.
Lloyds considered Mr Js claim but didnt agree to provide a refund. It said the payments 
werent unusual given Mr Js usual account activity and that Mr J should have taken 
additional steps like checking the FCA register after being called out of the blue by T.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that the payment requests werent unusual and that there was enough going on that ought 
reasonably to have concerned Mr J and led him to complete additional checks. For example, 
Mr J received a cold call when he was offered the investment opportunity, the rate of return 
expected was totally unrealistic, the premise of the scam wasnt believable, and Mr J was 
given excuses when he tried to withdraw funds. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. In summary, he said:
- Others involved in the same scam have received refunds from their banks and he 
thinks he should too.
- He did have a reasonable basis for belief under the CRM Code. Representatives of T 
were knowledgeable, T had a professional website and was in regular contact by 
phone, email and message. Mr J also received a contract and receipt after his first 
payment but has accidentally deleted the email.  
- The transactions were concerning, and Lloyds should have done more when they 
were made. Lloyds should also have investigated the accounts he paid. 
- He has been a loyal customer of Lloyds for 36 years and this should be taken into 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr J under the provisions of the 
CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr J was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for him to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr J 
and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the legitimacy 
of the transactions Mr J made are enough to support its position that it can rely on an 
exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think he had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person he transacted with was legitimate or that the investment 
was genuine. I say this because:
- Mr J was cold called about the opportunity to invest so ought reasonably to have 
been more sceptical than if he was seeking a way to invest/boost funds himself. 
- Mr J didnt complete any independent research to verify the information he was 
provided with, and he didnt seek out any reviews of T. The only reviews he saw were 
on Ts website. 
- The exact nature of the investment is unclear but appears to relate to spread or pool 
betting. Mr J hasnt been able to provide any documents that set out the nature of the 
agreement reached and what was expected of each party. For any form of legitimate 
investment, Id expect to see evidence of this nature. Ive seen what is described as a 
contract receipt in respect of the third payment Mr J made, which includes a space 
for Mr Js signature and says that by signing he agrees to the terms. But no terms 
were included. 
- Betting of this nature is regulated but there is no indication that T claimed to be 
regulated. 
- All investments involve risk, but Mr J seems to have been told that hed receive a 
substantial and unrealistic profit each month. I think this ought reasonably to have caused Mr J concern and led him to complete some checks before making 
payments. At the time Mr J wanted to withdraw funds, in around December 2021, he 
said his investment of £4,050 had reached around £60,000.  
- The evidence Mr J has provided isnt persuasive. The emails have no disclaimers at 
the bottom and only include an email address, phone number and website and the 
monthly profit reports were very basic. There were no logos either.
- Mr J made further payments without receiving any form of profit or return. 
Ive also considered whether Lloyds should have provided Mr J with an effective warning as 
set out in the CRM Code, or otherwise intervened, but I dont think it should have. Whilst I 
appreciate the loss has had a big impact on Mr J, the payments Mr J made were relatively 
small and were made over a period of around 11 months. And there were no other scam 
indicators present, like draining the account. So Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have 
recognised a scam risk when the payments were made or taken any further action. 
I can see that Lloyds attempted to recover Mr Js funds once it was notified of the scam but 
that no funds have been returned. Given the time that elapsed between the payments and 
when Mr J reported the scam to Lloyds, Im not surprised no funds remained - as scammers 
usually remove funds quickly. 
Mr J has explained that others who gave money to T have had refunds from their banks. I 
havent seen any evidence of this but, in any event, this doesnt mean that Mr J should also 
receive a refund. I am required to look at the individual circumstances of each complaint I 
decide and the assessment of whether an exception to reimbursement can fairly be applied 
relates to individual facts. I also appreciate that Mr J has been a loyal customer of Lloyds, 
but I cant recommend a refund on this basis. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear Mr J has been the victim of a cruel scam, I cant reasonably 
hold Lloyds responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman