DRN-3904663
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N complain about how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) handled a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage to their property in a fire.
Any reference to Covea in this decision includes their agents.
In bringing their complaint, Mrs N and Mr N were supported by a representative. References 
to Mrs N and Mr N include their representative
What happened
This is a longstanding case, with the details well-known to Mrs N and Mr N and Covea. So, 
this decision will only summarise the sequence of events.
In December 2016 Mrs N and Mr Ns property was severely damaged in a fire. They 
contacted Covea to tell them about the fire. Given the extent of the damage to both the 
property and the contents Covea appointed a specialist (B) to assess the cause of the fire. 
They concluded the fire originated in the loft, most probably due to an electrical fault.
Given the extent of the damage, Covea also appointed a loss adjuster (S) to assess the 
damage. As part of their assessment of the claim, Covea also appointed a firm (R) to inspect 
the damaged contents and compile a schedule of those deemed beyond economical repair, 
which they did by February 2017.  R asked Mrs N and Mr N to quantify the value of the items 
on the list, which took time. Some items were deemed to be repairable and subsequently 
returned to Mrs N and Mr N. However, some were found to be unsatisfactory and needed 
replacement. Mrs N and Mr N subsequently provided a schedule of items, to which they 
scribed values. This totalled £67,211. 
The validation process for the schedule of contents took time, partly because S thought 
there were some duplicated items, as well as verifying the cost of specific items (including 
bespoke furniture). S wrote to Mrs N and Mr N in January 2019 saying theyd validated items 
to a value of £28,371 which (after deducting a previous payment of £13,850 and the policy 
excess of £150) left a net settlement offer of £14,371. 
Further validation work took place, including discussions with Mrs N and Mr N, after which S 
requested more information from them about the contents being claimed for. Further contact 
took place but, having not received further contact and information from Mrs N and Mr N 
sufficient to progress the outstanding issues with the contents claim, Covea closed the claim 
in September 2020.
Regarding the work to rebuild the damaged property, authority was given (following receipt 
of tenders) in May 2017. Work began and was completed. Due to various issues (including 
the need to install air vents) sign-off of compliance with building regulations by the local 
council wasnt received until March 2022.
Unhappy at how Covea had handled their claim for damage to their property and contents, 
Mrs N and Mr N complained to this service in February 2022, referring to a letter setting out 
their concerns theyd sent to Covea. They were unhappy that the sums offered by Covea to 
settle the claim differed from those provided by S. They also raised concerns about the 
quality of the work to rebuild their property, In particular, damp patches on the walls and rain 
seeping in through the roof and refitted windows. They were also unhappy at the 
compensation theyd been awarded. They wanted Covea to increase their settlement to 
something closer to the figure theyd provided. They also wanted payment for lost items.
As Mrs N and Mr N complained to this service first, we asked Covea to consider the 
complaint and provide a response. 
In their final response, Covea didnt uphold the complaint. They said the claim for damage to 
contents was settled fairly by (by S) based on the information provided to them at the time. 
However, Covea added that S was in contact with Mrs N and Mr N to review further items 
and settle them in accordance with the terms of the policy. They also noted S were reviewing 
the issues raised about the rebuilding work on the property. Having reviewed the claim, 
Covea said they didnt think there had been deliberate delays or lack of service provided by 
S. There was a delay in building regulations sign off from the local council, but this was 
outside Coveas control. Covea said they would monitor [progress with] the claim closely.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. On the contents element 
of the claim, she concluded Mrs N and Mr N hadnt provided evidence to substantiate the list 
of contents and the values for the items. Covea had asked for evidence of the quantification 
of the items but hadnt received it. She also thought the quantification of particular items 
(bespoke furniture) wasnt in accordance with how the policy would value such items. 
Overall, she thought Coveas settlement was fair based on the information they received. On 
the building repairs, our investigator thought the issues would need to be considered by 
Covea in the first instance (as they had indicated in their final response).
On the time taken to progress the claim, our investigator concluded Covea had taken 
account of Mrs N and Mr Ns circumstances, including their vulnerability, and put in place 
measures to make the claims process easier, including visits to Mrs N and Mr N to discuss 
aspects of the claim (including the list of contents). 
Mrs N and Mr N disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They thought as the policy provided for contents cover up to £80,000, they 
were claiming for a sum within the policy limit. They also thought it difficult to comprehend 
how far short of that figure was the settlement offered by Covea. Also, many of the bespoke 
furniture items were not reflected in the new for old basis of the offer from Covea. Nor that 
there was any duplication on the schedule theyd provided, as the schedule was compiled on 
a room-by-room basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say that Ive considered what Mrs N and Mr N have said about their 
vulnerability, in particular of Mr N given the circumstances. I also recognise that having a 
serious fire at their property will have been a very frightening and stressful experience. I can 
see that they were provided with alternative accommodation and emergency support in the 
immediate aftermath of the incident. My role here is to decide whether Covea have acted 
fairly towards Mrs N and Mr N, specifically in the handling of their claim.
There are two main issues in Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint. First, that Covea have 
acted unfairly in not settling their claim for lost or damaged contents. Specifically, that 
Coveas settlement is significantly less than the value of the schedule of items they provided as part of their claim. They think Covea have wrongly excluded duplicate 
items, as well as not providing a proper new for old value for bespoke furniture 
items. Covea say theyve made a fair settlement based on the information provided to 
them, and that they havent had the further evidence to support Mrs N and Mr Ns 
valuations.
The second issue is the quality of the building works to repair the damage to the 
property. Mrs N and Mr N are concerned at damp patches and leaks from the roof 
and windows. Covea say S reviewing the issues raised about the rebuilding work on 
the property. And there was a delay in building regulations sign off from the local 
council, but this was outside their control.  
Taking the second issue first, Ive considered what Mrs N and Mr N have said, 
together with Coveas response. Having raised the issues in their complaint, Covea 
have said they will follow them up. Ive not seen any further information of evidence 
on the position to the date of Coveas response (which is the point to which Ive 
considered matters in this decision). However, I have noted that the local authority 
sign-off of the building regulations is dated March 2022. Which would be consistent 
with Coveas point about delays on the part of the local authority. Ive also noted a 
reference in Coveas case notes that mentions the need for air vents to be fitted at the 
property (which may have been a response to the damp issues mentioned by Mrs N 
and Mr N. 
But in the absence of any further information on the issue, I think Coveas response is 
reasonable, so I wont be asking them to take any further action in addition to what 
theyve said in their final response.
Coming back to the first issue, the settlement offered by Covea for the contents part 
of the claim, Ive again considered the evidence and information available and the 
views of Mrs N and Mr N and of Covea. Having done so, Ive concluded theyve acted 
reasonably, so I wont be asking them to take any further action (beyond what theyve 
said in their final response. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs N and Mr N, so Ill 
set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Looking at the sequence of events and what happened, it appears there is a 
disagreement between Mrs N and Mr N and Covea over the number of items that 
should be covered under the claim, as well as the valuation of those items. Mrs N and 
Mr N say theyve compiled a comprehensive schedule of items damaged or lost, 
together with values for those items (on a room-by-room basis). Covea say theyve 
validated the items lost based on the evidence and information provided by Mrs N 
and Mr N. Looking at the position, I think Covea have acted reasonably.
Ive come to this view for several reasons. First, where a policyholder makes a claim, 
its normal practice for insurers to engage with them to establish the extent of the loss 
or damage. I can see that this is what has happened in this case. However, its also 
reasonable for insurers to seek to validate and confirm (for a contents claim) the 
items lost and a value of that loss when making a settlement offer. Looking at the 
evidence, this is what happened in this case (albeit over a lengthy period). Covea 
werent able to validate the schedule of items and their values, asking Mrs N and Mr 
N for further information and evidence. From what Ive seen, they havent provided 
this further evidence and information. So, I dont think Covea have acted 
unreasonably. Having closed the claim in September 2020 as they hadnt heard from 
Mrs N and Mr N, theyve re-opened the claim and said S was in contact with Mrs N 
and Mr N to review further items and settle them in accordance with the terms of the policy. I havent seen any further evidence or information on this point, but I think 
Coveas response was reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
On the specific issue of the valuation of bespoke furniture, which Mrs N and Mr N say 
hasnt been treated in accordance with the new for old basis of cover, looking at the 
evidence I dont think Covea have acted unreasonably. From their case notes the 
indications are they based their offer on similar (new) items, given the original 
bespoke furniture wouldnt be available. I think thats a reasonable approach and 
provided for in the policy terms and conditions.
On the issue of compensation raised in Mrs N and Mr Ns complaint, if this is different 
to the issue of the difference between Coveas settlement offer and Mrs N and Mr Ns 
schedule and valuation, I havent seen anything that persuades me Covea have acted 
unreasonably. As mentioned earlier they did pay for alternative accommodation and 
make an emergency payment to Mrs N and Mr N to cover their immediate needs after 
having to leave their property after the fire left it uninhabitable. And as Ive concluded 
Covea have acted reasonably on the two main issues of the building repairs and the 
contents claim, I wont be asking Covea to make a compensation payment.
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have considered the other specific point 
raised by Mrs N and Mr N in their response to our investigators findings. Which is 
that the policy provided for contents cover up to £80,000, they were claiming for a 
sum within the policy limit. However, this doesnt mean Covea are obliged to make a 
settlement offer based on Mrs N and Mr Ns schedule and valuations. As Ive said 
above, insurers assess and validate claims and (as in this case) make a settlement 
offer. As I concluded, thats reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs N and Mr Ns 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman