DRN-2372211
The complaint
Mr B1 is represented by Mr B2. Mr B2 says that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should have realised that Mr B1 wasnt managing his finances and identified him as a 
vulnerable consumer before it was told of his diagnosis. He says the interest costs from 
2015 should be refunded to Mr B1.
What happened
Mr B1 opened a credit card account with Halifax in 2012. The initial credit limit was £5,600. 
Mr B2 says that having reviewed Mr B1s accounts he believes Mr B1 started to lose control 
of his finances around 2015. Mr B2 notes that Mr B1 used his credit card to make several 
money and balance transfers and increased his debt. He believes that Mr B1s behaviour 
should have raised concerns and that Halifax should have identified sooner that he was a 
vulnerable customer. Mr B2 says that the interest charged on Mr B1s credit card since 2015 
should be refunded along with part of the outstanding balance as he doesnt believe 
adequate checks were carried out before offers were made to Mr B1.
Halifax says that Mr B1s credit limit wasnt increased after he took out the card and that 
there hadnt been any changes in the way Mr B1 managed his account. It says Mr B1 
managed his card within the credit limits and made his payments on time. It says that it was 
informed about Mr B1s diagnosis in August 2019 at which time all interest was stopped, new 
transactions blocked, and the account passed to Halifaxs customer priority team and 
payment made through a debt management plan.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that having looked at Mr B1s credit 
file this didnt show any late payments until September 2019. She said Mr B1s history of 
payments showed he kept within his credit limit and that he was making payments each 
month. She didnt think the evidence suggested that Halifax should have known Mr B1 was 
struggling to manage his account or that he was a vulnerable consumer. When Halifax was 
informed of Mr B1s diagnosis our investigator thought it took reasonable action by stopping 
the interest and blocking new transactions on Mr B1s account.
Mr B2 didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that if Mr B1 had defaulted the 
account, Halifax would have had to take further action. He said Mr B1 was using savings to 
make his payments and had Mr B2 been aware of the issues sooner then he would have 
raised this, and interest could have been frozen. He says it is fair that this now happens.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Mr B1 took out the credit card in 2012. This complaint is about whether Halifax 
should have identified issues with how Mr B1 was managing his credit card account 
before it was notified of his health condition. The information provided shows that the 
credit limit on the account was set at £5,600 in 2012 and this wasnt increased. Had 
there been an increase in the limit we would expect appropriate checks to have been 
carried out at that time. However, in this case the limit was reduced and so as the 
limit didnt increase this wasnt a trigger for further affordability checks to take place.
I have looked at the statements that have been provided and can see Mr B1 was 
maintaining his minimum repayments up to August 2019. This is supported by 
Mr B1s credit file which shows his accounts were maintained until that time. Given 
this, I do not find it unreasonable that Halifax didnt identify an issue or carry out 
further reviews. Had Mr B1 not been maintaining his payments or was breaching his 
credit limit then I would expect this to have raised concerns. But based on the 
evidence I have seen I do not find there is enough to say that Halifax should have 
been aware that Mr B1 was experiencing issues managing his account.
When dealing with a vulnerable consumer, we would expect a bank to treat them 
positively and sympathetically. In this case, when Halifax was made aware of Mr B1s 
diagnosis it froze the interest on his account, blocked new transactions and passed 
his account to the relevant team. Mr B1 then made payments through a debt 
management plan. I find these actions reasonable as steps were put in place to 
prevent Mr B1s debt increasing further and to manage his payments.
I understand how upsetting this issue must be and I appreciate that Mr B1s condition 
was developing over an extended period before a diagnosis happened. However, I 
have to consider whether the management of Mr B1s account meant Halifax should 
have been reasonably aware that he was struggling with his finances. In this case I 
do not find that there is enough evidence to say that Halifax should have acted 
differently. Mr B1 is a vulnerable consumer and as Halifax is aware of the situation 
we would expect it to continue to treat him fairly and sympathetically.
Based on the reasons set out I above, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman