DRN-3644817
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr F acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage. The car was around seven years old and had a mileage of 72,327. Mr F says 
when he collected the car, he was told by the supplying dealership that it had been fully 
serviced.
Mr F says that after driving the car for around eight months, it broke down and had to be 
towed to a garage. The garage that inspected the car told Mr F the chain belt had gone, and 
it now required a new engine and turbo. Mr F says that he then took the car to another 
garage which specialised in this make of car and it provided him with a written report as to 
the cars condition. This garage also said that the car had not been serviced for six years.
Mr F complained to Advantage about the condition of the car and it arranged for it to be 
independently inspected by an engineer.
The independent engineer reported that failure is due to a combination of age-related 
general wear and tear, with the wear to the  timing chain and its associated components 
possibly been accelerated by the vehicle being driven over an extended period of time with 
poor quality oil in the sump.
However, the independent engineer also said that It is understood the vehicle has 
covered 22085 miles since purchase. It is therefore not suggested the fault would 
have been evident at the point of sale. The owner/operator would have been aware 
of increasing engine noise, particularly when starting the engine from cold. This 
failure could have been avoided if the vehicle had been serviced in line with the on-
board service indicator and referred to a competent repairer earlier for investigation 
of the cause of the audible noise coming from the timing chain area. Thereafter any
subsequent repairs undertaken would we believe have prevented the fracture
of the timing chain.
The independent engineer concluded that Mr F was responsible for any necessary 
repairs on the grounds that they have not had the vehicle serviced as per the instructions 
highlighted by the vehicle's on-board computer.
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint following receipt of the report on the car. It said 
the fault with the car hadnt been present or developing at its point of supply to Mr F and that 
he was responsible for the required repairs.
Mr F was unhappy at Advantages response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that although he was satisfied the car had a fault, the evidence 
indicated this was due to wear and tear. He said Mr F had driven the car for an additional 
22,085 miles over eight months and he thought that it would be reasonable to expect the 
issue would have become apparent far sooner if  it had been present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Our investigator also said the car had been 5000 miles overdue for an oil and oil filter 
change when it broke down and he thought it was difficult to determine whether the issues 
with the vehicle had been exacerbated by this.
Mr F disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the fault with the car wasnt due to 
wear and tear and that as he had been told the car had been recently serviced, he hadnt 
had the car serviced himself. Mr F said driving an additional 5,000 miles when an oil service 
was due wouldnt have resulted in the damage that had occurred to the engine. Mr F 
provided copies of the documentation he said he had received when hed acquired the car 
from the supplying dealer.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr F is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Advantage is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around seven years old and had a mileage of 72,327.  So, some issues 
of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. Here, the car broke down after 
Mr F had had the car in his possession for eight months and had driven an additional 
22,085 miles.
Mr F has sent to this service copies of various documents which he says were given to 
him by the dealership when hed acquired the car. Ive seen these documents included 
the service history for the car. And looking at this history, I can see that Mr F would have 
been aware there had been a gap in the car being serviced between 2017 and 2021. I 
can also see that car wasnt given a full service prior to Mr F acquiring it as only the boxes 
relating to the oil, brakes and a health check are ticked. It also isnt clear what work was 
undertaken in relation to the oil and whether there was an oil and oil filter change at that time.
The remainder of the paperwork provided by Mr F relates to a health check carried out in 
2019 when no issues were identified and some repairs to the car that were again carried 
out in 2019. 
Looking at the report Mr F obtained by the garage that specialised in this make of car it 
says that when they inspected it in January 2022 they found Excessive amount of black 
sludge inside engine. Suspect oil galleries blocked. Suspect vehicle has previously had 
incorrect/poor quality oil used. According to registered service history vehicle only had oil 
change since 04/2016. At that point the cars mileage was 94,412.
The independent engineer said that the failure of the timing chain was due to wear and tear 
which had possibly been accelerated by the car being driven over a long period of time with 
poor quality oil in the sump. They also said that there was no suggestion the current issue 
had been present or in development at the point of supply of the car and that this opinion 
was confirmed by the number of miles Mr F had been able to drive. They said that they 
considered Mr F was responsible for the cost of the repairs. And that this was because Mr F 
had neither had the vehicle serviced as per the instructions of the cars on-board computer 
nor had he referred it to a competent repairer for an earlier investigation due to the noise that 
the vehicle would have been making as the fault with the timing chain developed.  
Mr F has responded that he didnt have the car serviced in the eight months since hed 
acquired it because he believed the supplying dealership had fully serviced the car shortly 
before hed acquired it.
As set out above, I think Mr F would have known there had been a considerable gap in the 
cars service history. I also think its fair to say that he knew no maintenance or repair work 
had been carried out since 2019. Although I dont know what the supplying dealership said 
to him about the service it carried out, the paperwork doesnt suggest this was a full service. 
So, I think its reasonable to say Mr F was aware the car hadnt been serviced in accordance 
with the manufacturers recommendations.
In light of the cars history, I also think its fair to say that when the on-board computer 
indicated a service was required its reasonable to have expected Mr F to make some 
enquiries about that, and that he should have taken the car to a garage. I think he should 
have done more than ignore it.
I appreciate that the lack of servicing and not having the oil and oil filter changed may have 
played a part on the timing chains failure, but this isnt the sole cause of the part failing. I 
accept the independent engineers view that this fault would also have arisen from wear and 
tear. I also accept the view of the independent engineer that the evidence supports that due 
to the amount of time that had passed and the number of miles Mr F had been able to drive 
since hed acquired the car, that it was unlikely this fault had been present or developing at 
its point of supply.
As the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of supply, then I need to consider 
whether this car was as durable as would reasonably be expected. As set out, this car 
wasnt new so it wouldnt be expected to be fault free. Looking at its age and mileage, then I 
think a reasonable person would expect maintenance and repairs within a reasonable period 
of time after acquiring it. This is because parts had been subjected to wear and tear over 
time due to use and this would include the timing chain. The independent engineers 
evidence is that this wasnt a sudden failure but one that had developed over a period of 
time and would have been noticeable due to the noise that would have come from the part 
as the problem worsened. Mr F doesnt appear to have sought any advice or requested any investigation until the car broke down. I dont know why he didnt take any action to mitigate 
the damage to the engine that occurred through this part deteriorating. 
Even though this part failed over time, I think a reasonable person would consider that the 
car had been sufficiently durable for its age and mileage prior to the fault occurring. Mr F had 
been able to use it for eight months and driven over 22,000 miles in it during that time. I think 
the extent of the repairs which are now required may have been impacted by Mr Fs lack of 
action when the timing chain started to fail.
So, although this will be of disappointment to Mr F, for the reasons set out above Im 
satisfied the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him and Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman