DRN-3933682
Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited Shawbrook rejected her claim against it 
under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs H bought solar panels for her home in December 2013, which were installed in January 
2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore 
liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, 
Mrs H alleges that the installer misled Mrs H into believing that the panels would be self-
funding.
Mrs Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
documents from the time of sale had made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system 
would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be immediately self-
funding in the way Mrs H says she was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs H disagreed. She said (through her representatives) that the sale was conducted based 
on verbal representations and little reliance was placed on the documentation. The 
representative added that Mrs H was told she would not need to contribute any amounts out 
of her own pocket. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 10 January 2023, I set out why I minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Shawbrook nor Mrs H made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 140 and section 56 of the Act. Section 140A is 
about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the 
CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Mrs H was provided with the sales documents, as her representative sent 
us a copy. It seems likely that she wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as she has 
signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
and the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system. The copy of the 
contract still retained is not particularly clear, but I can make out some of what was written. I 
can see the following pieces of information on the document. 
Total benefits for first year £342.72 
The total potential amount of benefit over 20 years is £10,269
The total cost is set out £7,750 (this figure is the total cost of £8,345, less the cash 
back amount of £595 which the contract goes on to explain) 
Balance to be paid is £8,345 and finance is to be arranged by the installer. 
It also says that Mrs H will get a cash back of £595. 
So, to me it looks like the installer set out the total benefits Mrs H was expected to receive, 
as well as the cost of the system and that she would be using finance to fund the purchase 
during the sale. I dont think Mrs H would have agreed to take out finance of £8,345 without 
asking for some basic details about the loan such as the term of the loan, or the monthly 
payments etc.  
In any event, while I can see the printed copy of the consumer credit agreement was signed 
on the 15 January 2014, I can see a handwritten version was signed by Mrs H on 17 
December 2013  which I understand to be the day of the sales meeting. So, I think its more 
likely the finance agreement was also discussed in detail and agreed at the same time Mrs H 
was told about her expected total benefits provided by the system.
The consumer credit agreement goes on to show.
The total cost and amount of credit is £8,345.00
The total cost including interest and charges is £16,387.20           
The monthly payment is £91.04, and the term of the loan is 15 years (180 months)
I think its apparent that an annual benefit amount of £342.72 will not cover the annual 
payments of the loan. Even without doing any complex calculations  I think its clear that 12 
monthly payments of £91.04 is more than £342.72.
Additionally, the total amount payable under the loan agreement is also £16,387.20  Mrs H 
signed this loan agreement on two separate occasions. And the total amount payable is 
significantly more than the potential benefits over 20 years (£10,269). 
I think the documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mrs H had with the installer. 
And as set out above, I think the costs and benefit were made clear to her. Overall, I think it 
would have been clear to her that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way she 
says she was told they would be. 
If Mrs H had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected her to have questioned what she had been told. Ive seen no evidence that 
she did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mrs Hs 
understanding, at that time. While Ive carefully considered Mrs Hs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time. So, on 
balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that 
would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140 of the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to the installer and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140 of the Act.
Final review 
I have reviewed this complaint again in its entirety. But in the absence of any new points for 
me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings I set out in my provisional 
decision (and as Ive set out above). So, for the same reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman