DRN-4504085
The complaint
Mr G complains about the performance of his Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada pension plan. He says the plan has 
performed poorly and so he feels the plan was mis-sold to him.
What happened
In 1989 Mr G took out a personal pension plan with Sun Life. 
In 2006 Mr G raised a complaint with Sun Life as he was concerned about the investment 
performance of his plan. On 1 February 2006 Sun Life sent Mr G a response to his complaint 
which included referral rights to our Service. 
In July 2023 Mr G again complained to Sun Life about the performance of his plan. Mr G told 
Sun Life that he had a comparable pension plan with another firm which had returned far 
greater funds than his Sun Life plan. 
In response, Sun Life said the plan hadnt been mis-sold to Mr G as it was suitable for him in 
his circumstances in 1989. They went on to say Mr Gs plan was invested in unit-linked 
funds the value of which is linked to the performance of underlying investments held in the 
fund. 
Sun Life explained that in recent years there have been several events that have affected 
market performance such as Covid, the war in Ukraine and Brexit. They said theyd looked 
into the performance of Mr Gs plan in 2006 and addressed his concerns then. Sun Life 
included a copy of their response from 2006.  
Mr G was unhappy with Sun Lifes response to his complaint, so he brought it to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt think our service could look into whether Mr Gs complaint was mis-
sold as hed made his complaint too late. They explained that the rules say Mr G needed to 
complain within three years of being aware of a cause for complaint. And his complaint in 
2006 demonstrated Mr G was unhappy with the plan more than three years before he 
complained in 2023.
Our investigator also didnt think our service could comment on the performance of Mr Gs 
complaint prior to his 2006 complaint as he hadnt referred that complaint to our service in 
time. However, our investigator said we could consider a complaint about the performance of 
Mr Gs pension since 2006. But having considered the information provided, he didnt think 
there was any evidence Sun Life had mis-managed his plan in any way.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G but for the reasons Ill now explain, Im not 
upholding his complaint against Sun Life. 
For ease, Ive separated Mr Gs complaint into three distinct points. 
The sale of Mr Gs plan
Before we can consider the substance of any complaint brought to us, we first need to be 
satisfied that its one we have the authority to consider. That includes ensuring the complaint 
has been brought to us within the timescales set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) 
which were bound by.
The relevant rule here is DISP 2.8.2R. It says that consumers are able to complain about an 
event thats happened within six years of making their complaint. Or, if complaining later 
than that, within three years of the point at which the consumer was aware, or ought to have 
been aware, of a cause for complaint. 
We can only look into complaints made outside of this time period if the business consents 
to us doing so or were satisfied there are exceptional circumstances that prevented the 
complaint from being made sooner. In this case Sun Life hasnt consented to us looking into 
things. 
The event Mr G complains about is the sale of his personal pension in 1989 which is clearly 
more than six years before he complained to Sun Life in 2023.
I then need to decide when Mr G became aware (or ought to have become aware) of a 
cause for complaint. 
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that hes unhappy with the value of his pension plan as he 
feels it has performed badly. So, he thinks it was mis-sold. 
But in 2006 its clear Mr G was already unhappy with the performance and value of his plan. 
So, he had the same cause for complaint in 2006 as he did in 2023 and therefore ought 
reasonably to have had cause to complain about the plans sale in 2006. 
Mr G didnt complain about the sale of his plan within 3 years of 2006, so our service doesnt 
have the authority to consider the merits of a mis-sale complaint. 
Performance of the plan pre-2006 
Mr G complained to Sun Life about the performance of his plan in 2006.
On 1 February 2006 Sun Life explained that they investigated Mr Gs complaint. They 
provided an explanation and told Mr G that if he was unhappy with their answers, he could 
refer his complaint to our Service  but he had to do so within six months of the date of that 
letter. Thats consistent with the rules set out in DISP 2.8.2R.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr G referred his complaint about the performance of his plan 
within six months of Sun Lifes response to his complaint in 2006. So, our service doesnt 
have the jurisdiction to consider Mr Gs complaint about any performance of his plan prior to 
his complaint in 2006 as hes brought that complaint to us too late. 
Performance of the plan post-2006
While our Service cant consider the performance of Mr Gs plan pre-2006, hes remained a 
customer of Sun Life since that date. And as a customer of Sun Life, invested in two of their 
funds, Mr G is eligible to complain about Sun Lifes actions. I appreciate Mr G is disappointed with the returns of his Sun Life plan. Especially as he says 
he saw better returns on a similar plan from another business. But in order to uphold this 
complaint Id need to be satisfied that Sun Life made an error in the way theyd managed 
Mr Gs plan or funds.
Sun Life is accountable to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority - for the way they 
manage their funds. Im not aware the regulator has found any problems or raised any 
concerns about how Sun Life has managed the funds Mr G is invested in. 
Mr Gs invested in unit linked funds that are subject to fluctuations dependant on the 
underlying investments. Investment performance is dependent on the financial markets, and 
not something that a business like Sun Life can predict or control, therefore its not 
something that I can hold Sun Life accountable for. 
While the value of the plan hasnt met Mr Gs expectations, Ive seen no evidence that 
Mr Gs plan held any guarantees as to what its value would be when Mr G came to 
retirement age. And Ive also seen no evidence Mr G was told that it did. 
As Ive seen no evidence that Sun Life have mismanaged Mr Gs pension, I cant reasonably 
say that Sun Life have treated Mr G unfairly or made any errors in the way his pension has 
been managed. Therefore, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about the recent performance 
of his plan.
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman