DRN-3200047
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc failed to send literature for his account 
in large print.
What happened
Mr C had a current account and a savings account with RBS. 
Mr C has a visual impairment. He says he needs size 19 font to be used in documents - 
otherwise he cannot read them. Mr C made RBS aware of his requirements in January 2019. 
Despite this, Mr C says hes been sent numerous documents in small print. Hes complained 
to RBS about this on several occasions and each time it has accepted that its made an 
error. Mr C referred his complaints to our service and, at that stage, RBS agreed to pay Mr C 
further compensation to resolve his complaints.
Despite this, Mr C says that RBS has continued to send him documentation in small print. In 
August 2021, he says he received a letter with a leaflet enclosed. Both the letter and the 
leaflet were in small print. He complained to RBS again. It accepted this shouldnt have 
happened. It apologised to him. But, its final response letter was in small print. When he 
complained about this RBS sent him a cheque for £400 by way of compensation. But Mr C 
didnt think this was enough to compensate him for what happened. He complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. Mr C told us about the impact RBSs actions had 
on his mental health. He says he doesnt feel part of society because of the way RBS has 
treated him. 
Having considered everything our investigator thought it was fair and reasonable to ask RBS 
to pay Mr C a further £100 by way of compensation. RBS accepted this.
Mr C wasnt happy with the proposed resolution. He said it wasnt acceptable for RBS to try 
to buy him off in the hope that hed just drop his complaints. He said he wanted the extra 
£100 to be sent to him within 28 days.
RBS sent a cheque for the additional £100 in its letter dated 17 November 2021. But, Mr C 
says the letter enclosing the cheque was typed in font size 16  so he couldnt read it.
Our investigator looked into what Mr C said. RBS provided evidence that the letter had been 
sent using font size 19 and it appeared to our investigator the copy letter provided to our 
service by Mr C was in font size 19. Our investigator said he didnt have enough evidence to 
support what Mr C said. He didnt think RBS should have to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about the letter and leaflet sent to Mr C in August 2021 and the subsequent 
correspondence from RBS. I can see that Mr C has made a number of historical complaints 
about RBS. RBS has already issued it final response letters in relation to those complaints 
and Mr C has accepted its offers of compensation. So, although Ive taken into account the 
sequence of events here, in this decision I wont be dealing with any of Mr Cs previous 
complaints. Im only dealing with his complaint about the letter and leaflet he was sent in 
August 2021 and the subsequent correspondence from RBS.
There is no dispute that the correspondence RBS sent to Mr C in August 2021 was in small 
print. That was an error on its part. Mr C had made clear to RBS, and it had noted in its 
records, that Mr C required all documentation to be font size 19. And, as Ive noted above 
this wasnt the first time this had happened. Mr C had already made several complaints to 
RBS and on each occasion it had accepted that its actions had fallen short of what it should 
reasonably have been expected to do. In these circumstances, I can understand how Mr C 
wouldve felt when he received further literature which was in small print.
Mr C has told us about the impact this has had on his mental health. He says he had to 
attend his general practitioner after receiving the literature and he felt he wasnt part of 
society.
When thinking about what Mr C has told us, Im required to take into account  amongst 
other things  relevant law and regulations. So, Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account 
when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this 
complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision on whether RBS 
has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
The Equality Act 2010 requires businesses to make reasonable adjustments for disabled 
people. RBS accepted that Mr C has a visual impairment. It agreed to adjust its procedures 
so that all literature sent to him would be in font size 19. But, its failed to implement that 
adjustment in a consistent way. 
In August 2021 RBS sent a letter and a leaflet to Mr C. This documentation was about the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The letter and accompanying leaflet were not in 
font size 19. This was general information which RBS sent to all its customers. And it 
appears Mr C was aware that it was general information  and not specific information about 
his account. 
RBS says this letter was sent because Mr C still held a savings account with it. Mr C had 
switched his current account to another provider. But, that didnt apply to his savings 
account. In the absence of a specific instruction, I dont think RBS did anything wrong when 
it didnt close the savings account. However, that meant he was still registered as a 
customer and thats why the information about the Financial Service Compensation Scheme 
was sent to him. In line with his instructions and the information RBS held on its records this 
information shouldve been sent in large print. It wasnt.
There is no dispute that RBS erred when it sent this material to Mr C. RBS apologised to Mr 
C for sending him this material with an incorrect font size and offered to pay him £400 by 
way of compensation for its error.  After the complaint was referred to our service RBS said it 
would pay Mr C further compensation. It sent him a further cheque for £100 and confirmed it had closed the savings account. So, it said that after this, Mr C shouldnt receive any further 
correspondence from RBS about his account.
When considering whether this total amount (£500) was fair and reasonable compensation 
for what happened, Ive taken into account the history of events, the distress and upset 
caused to Mr C and the type of material that was sent.
The material sent to Mr C was general information. As mentioned above it didnt contain any 
specific account information  such as his balance or transactional details. But, that doesnt 
mean it didnt have an impact on his feelings.
Ive carefully noted what hes told us. He says he had to attend his general practitioner and 
he felt he wasnt part of society. Mr C hasnt provided evidence to support what hes said, 
but Ive no reason to doubt the strength of his feelings and the impact this wouldve had on 
him. Hed received another letter from RBS in the wrong font size  despite having already 
complained to RBS several times previously and been assured it wouldnt happen again. In 
these circumstances, Mr C doesnt think its good enough for RBS to continue making 
mistakes and get away with it simply by paying him compensation.
When considering complaints of this nature our role isnt to fine or punish a business when it 
makes mistakes. We consider what is fair and reasonable. That does mean I can take into 
account the number of times RBS has made the same mistake despite having told Mr C it 
was sorry and assuring him it wouldnt happen again. Im satisfied that the sequence of 
events heightened the distress and upset RBS caused here. But, having considered 
everything, Im persuaded, on balance, this has been taken into account in the award of 
compensation thats already been paid here. I think £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr C.
Ive also considered what Mr C told us about the letter dated 17 November 2021. But, I 
havent seen any evidence to support what hes said. 
Mr C sent our service a photograph of the letter dated 17 November 2021. And, whilst its 
not possible to be entirely certain from the photograph, it does appear to be a copy of the 
letter which RBS also provided to us. The layout and spacing of the letter in the photograph 
is identical to the letter RBS sent to us. RBS has also confirmed it issued the letter in font 
size 19. So, Im not persuaded, on balance, its made a further error.
RBS has confirmed that Mr C has cashed both of the cheques (totalling £500). So, I dont 
require it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc has already paid Mr C £500 (in total) to settle the complaint 
and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 Irene Martin
Ombudsman