DRN-1608469
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) discriminated against her 
when it decided not to lend her money for the purchase of a car.
What happened
Moneybarn, having initially agreed to lend Miss H money for the purchase of a car, then 
decided not to do so.
Moneybarn says that the reason it ultimately decided not to lend to Miss H was because of 
concerns it had around affordability. On the other hand, Miss H says Moneybarn decided not 
to lend to her because of her mental health.
Miss Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that 
Moneybarn had done nothing wrong. In summary he said he was satisfied that Moneybarns 
decision not to lend was one that it had, in all the circumstances, reached fairly and 
reasonably.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigators conclusion so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I think its important to point out that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I dont underestimate Miss Hs strength of feeling about this matter and that she holds the 
view that Moneybarn decided not to lend to her because of her mental health. 
But I dont agree that Miss Hs mental health had any bearing on Moneybarns lending 
decision. I say this because its my understanding the first time Moneybarn was made aware 
of Miss Hs mental health issues was during a phone call it had with her on 30 July 2019. 
And this was after Moneybarn had already concluded it wasnt prepared to lend, at least 
without further enquiries being made of Miss H and/or third parties.
Notwithstanding what I say above, its also my understanding that Miss H is unhappy with 
how she was treated by Moneybarn after 30 July 2019, the date that in my view Moneybarn 
was first made aware of her mental health issues.
But based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that after 30 July 2019 
Moneybarn treated Miss H fairly and reasonably and made reasonable adjustments given 
her mental health.Ive come to this conclusion given (amongst other things) how quickly Moneybarn issued its 
final response letter, the steps it took to try and assist Miss H, and given that it 
communicated with Miss H (wherever possible) by phone rather than by email or letter  
phone being Miss Hs preferred method of contact and communication.
Finally, I would add that I cant see that Moneybarn has reported any information to credit 
reference agencies that was incorrect, or that there was any material delay in it getting this 
information removed, or amended.
So in summary Im not persuaded that Moneybarn, despite having paid Miss H £150, has 
done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman