DRN-1495907
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car provided to him by Mallard Leasing Limited under a hire 
purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr A acquired a car on 2 August 2018 with the benefit of a Hire Purchase agreement with 
Mallard Leasing. At the time the car was just over 8 years old and had done 51,293 miles.
10 days later the car broke down and had to be recovered. A few weeks after that Mr A 
noticed some faults: the engine management light (EML) was coming on, there was a loud 
noise from the clutch and gearbox, a shuddering sensation from the engine and the engine 
kept cutting out.  The selling garage had closed down so he contacted Mallard Leasing who 
arranged for an independent inspection. This reported problems with the flywheel and paint 
damage.
Mallard Leasing agreed to carry out these repairs and the car went into the garage in 
October. Mr A got it back in February but the day after its return, he noticed oil on the drive 
under the car. He also reported the gears werent working properly and a shuddering 
sensation from the engine.
Shortly after Mr A arranged for an oil change. He says he was told the oil appeared not to 
have been changed previously. It was heavily contaminated and had damaged the pipes. He 
paid £1,500 to have the pipes changed and to replace the turbo.
Mr A complained about the oil leak to Mallard Leasing in April 2019 but was told that this 
hadnt been part of the original complaint so it didnt accept responsibility. However the 
original garage agreed to repair this as a gesture of good will.
Mr A says the car started leaking oil again shortly after this and the EML was coming on. In 
addition there were still problems the gearbox, and the engine. In September 2019, the car 
refused to go into gear. The recovery service diagnosed internal gearbox fault synchromesh 
suspected unable to select second gear Mr A hasnt been able to drive the car since 
September.
Mr A says the cars had numerous problems since he acquired it. Its been into the car 
several times but the problems are still there. He considers that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and hed now like to cancel the agreement and return the car.
Mallard Leasing says when Mr A first complained in 2018, he didnt mention an oil leak and 
this wasnt picked up in the independent inspection report of 25 September 2018. It says this 
doesnt suggest this problem was present at the point of sale. Its also noted that this car has 
done over 7,000 miles since it was supplied to Mr A and feels this wouldnt have been 
possible if these serious faults had been present at the time it was supplied in 2018. On that 
basis, it doesnt agree its responsible for carrying out the repairs to the gearbox or engine.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint in part. She said Mr A had first raised concerns 
about the gearbox in September 2018, which was only a few weeks after he first acquired 
the car. He said the car wouldnt always go into first gear and that there was a loud noise 
from the gearbox that disappeared when the clutch was depressed.   The independent report 
in September 2018 identified problems with the flywheel and the paintwork but while it was in 
for repairs, the repairing garage confirmed that it had also refurbished and refitted the 
gearbox. This was only six to seven months before it had failed in September 2019, so she 
felt the later problem indicated a failed repair or an underlying fault.
Shed seen that an oil leak was one of the reasons this car had failed tis MOT test in July 
2018. Although this was repaired before sale, she could see from previous MOTs that this 
been a longstanding problem  and it was still an issue in 2019. Shed spoken to the garage 
whod done the oil change in April 2019. Theyd confirmed the oil was old and heavily 
contaminated and this had led to the problems with the oil filter and turbo. Taking all this 
together she considered it probable that the recent oil leaks were the result of a longstanding 
problem that had been present at the point of sale.
Looking at all the problems this car had had since Mr A acquired it, and the history of the 
repairs, she didnt consider that it had been of satisfactory quality. She recommended 
Mallard Leasing cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay, collect the car at no cost 
to Mr A and remove information about the agreement from Mr As credit file. It should also 
refund the deposit paid by Mr A and refund the monthly payments for when the car was in for 
repair between December 2018 and February 2019 and again from when the car broke 
down on 26 September 2019.  Interest at 8% should be added to these payments from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Mallard Leasing should also reimburse the cost of the repairs to the oil pipes and turbo and 
also pay Mr A £350 compensation for the trouble and upset hed had from being supplied 
with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mallard Leasing disagreed and said in summary:
the problem selecting gears in 2018 was more likely to be a fault with the clutch than 
the gearbox,
there was nothing to show that the recent oil leaks were the same as those 
previously identified. In a car of this age oil leaks were not unexpected.
it considered the independent inspection report in September 2018 was reasonable 
and should be relied on. This hadnt shown a fault with the gearbox or identified any 
oil leaks.
it had no knowledge that the gearbox had been refurbished in 2018/19 and didnt feel 
it should be responsible for this.
It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information on any particular point is contradictory or incomplete, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is whats more likely than not to have happened 
taking into account the circumstances of this case.Mr A acquired this car under a Hire Purchase agreement from Mallard Leasing. Such 
agreements are covered by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This says that where 
theres a contract to supply goods or services, theres an implied term that the quality of the 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory taking into account their age, purpose, description and cost which 
in the case of a car will also include its age and mileage. 
As the provider of the car and the finance Mallard Leasing is jointly responsible for ensuring 
the car supplied was of satisfactory quality. So if I thought there was something wrong with 
the car, I can direct Mallard Leasing to take steps to put matters right.
With cars theres an implied assumption that faults that develop within the first six months 
after purchase are most likely to have been present at the point of sale. Where faults occur 
after that time, its for the consumer to prove that the faults were present or developing at the 
point of sale.  In this case its clear theres been a long history of problems with this car going 
back to only a few days after Mr A acquired it. However the question is whether those faults 
were present or developing at the point of sale.
Mallard Leasing has said that the independent inspection report in September 2018 didnt 
identify a fault with the gearbox and on that basis, it doesnt agree this problem was present 
at that time. However while the independent report is a useful snapshot of the cars condition 
at that time, it needs to be balanced against the other information available, not least as in 
this case the car wasnt tested on the road or under driver conditions.
In this case the independent inspection identified a problem with the flywheel but not the 
gearbox, However when the car went into the garage to have the flywheel repaired, the 
repairing garage decided the gearbox needed repair and arranged for it to be refurbished 
and refitted. I think it unlikely that it would have done this unless there was a clear fault. 
This also adds weight to Mr As report of the problems hed had with the gearbox since 
inception. I note he first complained about a stiff and noisy gearbox shortly after purchase 
and has continued to report problems since then. I find this persuasive and it does suggest 
that this has been an ongoing problem since it was supplied. And as the problems began so 
soon after purchase I find it more probable than not that these issues were present or 
developing at the point of sale.
I note Mallard Leasing says it wasnt told about the repairs to the gearbox at the time. I cant 
comment on that but even it had, I cant see that it could have done more than agree to the 
repairs.  This was only two months after the car had been provided so any fault would have 
been presumed to have been present at the point of supply and Mr A would have been 
entitled to have the fault repaired. For that reason I dont consider that this has any impact 
on my decision. 
If the repair had worked then this would have resolved the issue but its clear that Mr A 
continued to have problems with the gearbox even after this. In the circumstances I find it 
probable that there was a fault with the gearbox when Mr A acquired it and that despite the 
attempted repair, the fault has not been resolved and this has led to the current problem. On 
that basis I dont consider this car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
With regard to the oil leaks, Id agree its not uncommon for a car to develop an oil leak and 
the older the car the more likely this is to happen. However in this case its clear thered 
been a serious oil leak in July 2018 and this was one of the reasons the car failed its MOT at 
that time. The leak was repaired and it seems the repair was effective because no oil leak 
was identified in the independent inspection some two months later.However, as Mr As described, he continued to have problems with the car leaking oil and in 
April he took it into a garage to see what was wrong. This garage reported that the oil was 
heavily contaminated, that it didnt appear to have been changed for a long time, if at all, and 
that this had caused problems with the pipes and the turbo. It seems clear that this problem 
would have taken some time to develop and that its unlikely that it could have developed 
between the time of the repair and the time Mr A acquired the car. 
On that basis it seems logical to conclude that this problem would have been present at the 
point of sale and that although the selling garage did carry out a repair, it didnt resolve the 
underlying cause and the problem remained.  For that reason, I consider it reasonable that 
Mallard Leasing now reimburse Mr A for the cost of replacing the oil pipes and turbo subject 
to Mr A providing proof of the payment.
Putting things right
 For the reasons set out above I consider that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr A and that Mallard Leasing should now allow Mr A to cancel the 
agreement and arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr A. Mallard Leasing should also 
remove the details of this agreement from Mr As credit file.
 I note Mr A paid a £500 deposit. This needs to be refunded along the monthly payments 
from December 2018 to February 2019 inclusive, the time during which the car was in for 
repair and Mr A didnt have the use of it.  Mallard Leasing should also refund Mr As monthly 
payments from the end of September 2019 onwards, the point at which the car broke down 
and he has been unable to use it.  Interest at 8% simple should be added to these payments 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. In addition, I consider it reasonable for 
Mallard Leasing to now reimburse Mr As cost of repairs to the oil pipes and turbo upon 
production of a valid invoice and receipt.
Finally its clear that Mr A has had a lot of trouble with this car since he first acquired it and 
its caused him a significant amount of inconvenience. In the circumstances Ive decided 
Mallard Leasing should pay Mr A £350 for his trouble and upset caused by whats happened.
I note that the Mr A had negative equity at the time of this agreement. Mallard Leasing is 
entitled to deduct this from any award payable to Mr A and if that leaves a balance due from 
Mr A then Mallard Leasing will need to agree a suitable repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Mallard Leasing Limited to: 
cancel the agreement with Mr A with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no 
cost to Mr A,
remove information about the agreement from Mr A's credit file,
refund the deposit paid by Mr A,
refund Mr As December 2018 to February 2019 (inclusive) monthly instalments
refund all instalments paid by Mr A since the car broke down on 26 September 2019, 
applying this on a pro-rata basis if necessary *
subject to production of a valid invoice and receipt, reimburse the cost of the repairs 
to the oil pipes and turbo to Mr A
pay £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A as a result of being 
supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality.Interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of payment should be added to all 
refunds under the settlement. In addition, Mallard Leasing is entitled to deduct the negative 
equity of £800 carried forward into this agreement from any refund payable to Mr A. If that 
leaves a balance due from Mr A then Mallard Leasing should work with Mr A to develop a 
suitable repayment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman