DRN-2689578
The complaint
Mr C complains that Trinity Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly in their handling 
of his windscreen damage claim. The claim was made on his motor insurance policy. 
References to Trinity will include the action of their agents.
What happened
Mr Cs windscreen was damaged in November 2015, so he made a claim with Trinity for a 
replacement. Trinity was unable to provide this initially, so Mr C had to find a company 
himself. Mr C says he was led to believe that he could be rewarded for finding a company, 
as Trinity may be able to strike a relationship to use them in the future.
Mr C found a company to replace his windscreen but says Trinity reneged on their offer to 
reward him. Mr C didnt wish to provide the repair invoice to Trinity because then theyd see 
who the company was, and would benefit from the work hed put into finding them.
Mr C is also unhappy with the way he was treated in general, saying he was frequently 
passed from pillar to post, and had questions left unanswered. Mr Cs claim wasnt settled, 
because he remained unwilling to provide the invoice to Trinity.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, Trinity only addressed the issue of the claim not being paid, 
explaining that it still required sight of the invoice for that.
Mr C wasnt happy with that so brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They couldnt find any other evidence that there 
was an agreement Mr C would be rewarded for finding a repair company. And he didnt think 
he could ask Trinity to honour the agreement based on Mr Cs testimony alone, especially as 
no terms of any agreement had been established.
The investigator felt it was more likely there had been a misunderstanding. He could see that 
Mr C had recommended the company to Trinity, but not that Trinity had offered any reward 
for this. The investigator felt Trinity were entitled to withhold payment for the claim until such 
time that Mr C provided the invoice.
Mr C disagreed with the investigator. He said Trinity promised that compensation for poor 
service would be considered. Mr C reiterated that an agreement had been reached and 
questioned why he would have spent so much time trying to find a company, who Trinity 
could use in the future, if not for personal gain. Finally, Mr C maintained that poor service in 
general had been provided to him.
Agreement couldnt be reached between Mr C and the investigator, so the case was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful for me to start by clarifying that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
informal alternative to the courts. In view of this, while everything is considered, we may not 
address every single point made or question asked. Because of this I dont intend to respond 
to all of Mr Cs questions. What I will do though, is address the heart of the matters.
Mr C having to source his own repairer
Ive reviewed Mr Cs insurance policy and note that it covers situations where Trinitys 
agents cant complete a repair. Where that happens, they would settle the claim by 
reimbursing Mr Cs outlay. I consider this to be reasonable, Mr Cs insurance contract is 
supposed to put him in the position he was in before the claim (subject to any excess which 
may apply). Reimbursement of his outlay would achieve that objective, so I dont think Mr C 
has been treated unfairly in that respect.
I agree its possible Trinity couldve done more for Mr C, but I dont think they necessarily 
had to. And even if a business advertises itself as a specialist, theres always a chance their 
agents could have difficulties in this regard, even though you might reasonably consider that 
to be less likely.
Its also worth noting that there will always be some inconvenience associated with a claim.
Trinitys promise of compensation
Mr C says Trinity acknowledged in writing that they had provided poor service, and said they 
would consider paying him compensation for that. That is correct, I have seen an email from 
Trinity to Mr C confirming this. Trinity accept this and say they usually consider a reduction in 
excess, but until they know the value of Mr Cs claim  i.e. receive the invoice  they 
wouldnt know whether that was appropriate in the circumstances.
I dont think its unreasonable for Trinity to want to finalise the claim before considering 
compensation. I also note theyve already agreed to reduce the excess from £125 to £90. 
The agreement to reward Mr C for finding a repair company
Trinity accepts that there was interest shown in the possibility of striking up a relationship 
with the repairer Mr C used. But they say no reward was offered to Mr C in relation to this.
While I appreciate Mr C may have believed there to be an agreement in place, I think its 
unlikely an insurer would make such an offer to their customer. They will already have 
employees who are responsible for client relationships.
Mr C says he has maintained throughout that he spoke with Mr B at Trinity, and that Mr B did 
make an offer to him. However, Ive seen an email from Mr C to Mr B, where he said:
I was left to arrange for a replacement myself and having found a company able to 
undertake the work, spoke with your Mr B who showed interest in being introduced to this 
company with the possibility of them replacing the underperforming approved company. It 
was indicated that I would benefit from this, especially if the new company became the newly 
approved one for yourselves.
Mr Cs email was sent in 2016, far closer to the time when the claim was being made. So, I 
think its likely to be a better record of what happened. An indication is not the same as an 
agreement, so it seems to me that Mr C inferred that an agreement had been reached rather than an agreement actually being reached. Especially as Mr B said in reply that he did not 
make such an indication.
Nevertheless, I accept Mr C believed there was an indication, otherwise I dont see why he 
would state such a belief. But we consider cases on the balance of probability, and Ive not 
seen enough to make me think its more likely than not that Mr B purposely misled him in 
that respect. Further, Mr Cs use of the word indication tells me he was aware there was no 
guarantee that he would receive any reward. And the word if suggests he was also aware 
that Trinity may not strike up any relationship with the company anyway.
I note Mr C has questioned why he would have gone to so much effort if he hadnt expected 
a reward. I understand that, and I accept he believed he may benefit in some way. But
Mr Cs email says to me that he found the company before any indication of a reward had 
been made  having found a company. So, I think the effort he went to was to find a 
suitable company to repair his car, and that no extra effort was expended as a result of a 
discussion with Trinity, as that discussion had yet to take place.
The poor service and failure to answer questions
I have reviewed the correspondence Mr C has sent to us, and I can see that he was 
frustrated at the stance taken by the business. It seems to me that they simply repeated that 
they required sight of Mr Cs invoice in order to finalise matters.
I can well appreciate how that would be frustrating, but I cannot ignore that Mr C has failed 
to provide the invoice that Trinity has reasonably requested. And whilst I appreciate the 
reasons behind this, a claim process which requires losses to be demonstrated is entirely 
normal. Its true that Trinity could have engaged further with Mr C, and that would have been 
better service, but I think the reason they chose not to was because Mr C wasnt providing 
the invoice they required to finalise matters. And it was made clear to Mr C in 2016 that the 
invoice was required to do that.
I think the underlying reason behind these issues is Mr Cs reluctance to provide the invoice. 
And as I say, whilst I understand his reasons for this, I dont think Trinity reneged on any 
agreement because I dont think any agreement was reached. So Im not going to award any 
compensation in that regard.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman