DRN-3387389
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited has recorded a declined claim as a claim on 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2021, Mr G contacted esure as he had noticed some bubbling on the 
paint on his hall wall, thought to be caused by a leak in the bathroom. 
esure sent a surveyor to review the damage. It determined the damage was a result 
of poor workmanship and declined the claim.
Mr G received his renewal notice and noticed the premiums were a lot higher than 
the previous year. When Mr G queried this with esure he was told it was due to the 
claim hed made. 
Mr G is unhappy that a declined claim is recorded on his policy and feels this is unfair 
and he has been financially penalised. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt feel esure had made any 
errors in how it handled the claim.
Mr G didnt agree. He feels its not unreasonable to expect that if a surveyor is sent 
out to assess whether a claim is viable, to be informed the claim would be recorded 
regardless of whether it is upheld, especially if there is doubt the claim would be 
valid. 
Mr G has therefore asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is Mr G is unhappy esure didnt tell him that by it sending out a 
surveyor to validate a claim, regardless of the claim decision, that it was registering a claim 
on his policy, and it could affect future premium prices. To be clear I am not making any 
finding on the claim outcome.
Under the rules of the regulator, an Insurer has a responsibility to handle the claim promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. So, when a policy holder makes an 
insurance claim as Mr G did when he called his insurer on 15 February 2021, I wouldnt 
expect the insurer to decline the claim without reasonably checking if its valid. 
In the call with esure, Mr G says hed like to make a claim. He explained hed had a plumber 
out whod found a leak from the toilet and that was causing the damage. The advisor says 
that they can send out a surveyor to see if the damage would be covered under the policy. I 
think it was fair and reasonable for the insurer to want to validate the claim. And I dont think 
the advisor wouldve been able to say for certain whether the damage would be accepted or 
not during this call. 
Mr G is unhappy that he wasnt told that by sending a surveyor, a claim was registered and 
that it could or would affect his renewal price. He says if he had known this, he wouldve 
declined for a surveyor to come to the property.  However, I note when Mr G called the 
insurer, he clearly said hed like to make a claim on his home insurance policy. This is when 
the claim was registered, and Mr G was also informed of this by way of an email. 
I note Mr G didnt question the advisor if making a claim would result in a mark against his 
policy and or affect future premiums. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Mr Gs 
intention was to raise a claim. Had he asked the insurer a direct question about the impact a 
claim could have on future premiums. I wouldve expected it to have informed him that 
claims on insurance policies, regardless of the claim decision, can affect premiums. I also 
consider this a widely recognised fact.
Insurers set prices according to risk, so it will record all interaction a consumer has with its 
claims department. If an insurer was to only register claims that it accepted, this wouldnt be 
a true representation of what risk a property, or individual, poses to an insurer. This 
information helps insurers decide whether to offer insurance or not and what premiums it will 
charge. 
Im satisfied that esure has followed its process to investigate and validate the claim. I 
appreciate Mr G feels it shouldve been explicit in telling him a claim could affect his renewal 
price but it isnt something Id expect an insurer to do automatically,  Ive seen no evidence 
esure has made an error, so I wont be instructing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman