DRN-4227041
The complaint
In summary, Mrs K complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as 
Argos card, didnt provide her with support when she got into financial difficulties in 2022. 
Instead, it sold her debt to a debt recovery company. 
What happened
In October 2020, Home Retail provided Mrs K with a credit account. She made several 
purchases using the account. Home Retail said that by April 2022 the required payments to 
the account werent received, and that no payments had been received since July 2022. 
Home Retail contacted Mrs K in respect of the arrears on the account. When it became 
aware of her circumstances it put a hold on interest and fees for three months. After that 
time had expired, Home Retail said no contact was received from Mrs K to further 
correspondence it sent her, regarding settling the account.
In December 2022 Mrs K complained to Home Retail about a notice she had been sent 
regarding the account. It explained that the correspondence was a statutory notice to inform 
her that the account had been terminated. 
Mrs K subsequently complained to Home Retail again when she was informed that the 
account was defaulted in December 2022, and the debt sold on to a third party in January 
2023. 
Dissatisfied with the response from Home Retail, Mrs K referred her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators explained why they didnt think Home Retail had done 
anything wrong. Mrs K disagreed, so the complaint was referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why. First, I want to 
acknowledge that from what Mrs K has told Home Retail and this service, its clear she has 
had a difficult time over the last year. And this has resulted in her experiencing financial 
difficulties in respect of her credit account. 
The crux of the issue that I need to decide, is whether Home Retail treated Mrs K fairly in 
respect of the financial difficulties she experienced, in relation to the credit account she had 
with it. From the evidence I have seen, I think it did. 
When Mrs K made Home Retail aware of the financial difficulties she was in, it had a 
regulatory obligation to treat her with forbearance and due consideration in respect of the 
financial difficulties she was experiencing with her account. So, essentially it needed to treat 
her fairly. 
Shortly after Home Retail became aware of Mrs Ks personal, health and financial difficulties 
it wrote to her in August 2022. Its letter asked for further details of her health issues so it 
could tailor its support to her specific needs. It also responded to her request to put the 
account on hold for six months. It said that it would be happy to hold the account for three 
months and stop all interest and charges during that time. It also went on to say that it would 
look at this again after the three-month period ended. And it explained that it had an 
obligation to send regulatory letters that might be due at certain points during that time.  
The actions taken by Home Retail that Ive summarised above, are what I would expect it to 
have done when it became aware of the personal and financial difficulties Mrs K was 
experiencing at that time. I think it treated Mrs K fairly by putting the account on hold for 
three months and stopping all interest and charges during that time. And the actions it took 
were in line with the expectations set out by its regulator the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
Mrs K doesnt seem to think that the subsequent actions Home Retail took in writing to her in 
respect of the arrears on the account, subsequently defaulting it, and selling the debt on 
were fair. However, it seems to me that after the three months grace period had expired, no 
further payments were made to the account to settle the arrears and outstanding balance. 
And Ive not seen evidence that shows that Mrs K engaged with Home Retail as to how she 
intended to pay those arrears and the outstanding balance. 
In those circumstances I dont think Home Retail acted unfairly in corresponding with Mrs K 
in the way it did. It had a legal obligation to write to Mrs K in the way that it did, of its 
intention to enter the account into default. Once the account had defaulted it wasnt 
inappropriate of Home Retail to sell the debt to a third party. That was a commercial 
judgement that it was entitled to make, and the terms and conditions of the credit agreement 
provided for it to do be able to do that. 
I do understand that Mrs K has been through a difficult time and Im sorry that she has found 
herself in the financial position that she has. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Home Retail has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman