DRN-3204423
The complaint
Mr M and Miss P complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused entry to a 
branch because he wasnt wearing a mask. Mr M and Miss P also complain that Halifax 
closed their account     
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M tried to enter a branch of Halifax to check some account information. But 
Mr M was stopped by a security guard and asked to wear a mask. 
There is some disagreement about what happened next. Mr M says he told the security 
guard that he was medically exempt from wearing a mask. Mr M says he was then asked 
about his exemption and denied entry to the branch by the security guard. Mr M says that 
when a manager became involved they repeated questions about the nature of his 
exemption and ultimately told him to leave. 
Halifax says Mr M initially told the security guard he wasnt willing to wear a mask and didnt 
mention a medical exemption. Halifax says that after Mr M was challenged by the security 
guard and a manager he told them he was medically exempt. At that point, Halifax has 
confirmed it asked Mr M about the nature of his exemption. Halifax says Mr M spat at the 
security guard and kicked over a chair. As a result, Halifax says Mr M was told to leave the 
branch. Halifax later took the decision to close Mr M and Miss Ps account.
Mr M complained but Halifax didnt agree an error had been made.
Mr M and Miss P referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Halifaxs decision to ask Mr M to leave and subsequently close the account 
related to the way his branch visit had gone. But the investigator agreed Halifax shouldnt 
have asked Mr M about the nature of his exemption and asked it to pay £75 to apologise. 
Halifax agreed but Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that were an informal dispute resolution service. That means, its not 
for this service to decide if Halifax breached the Equality Act 2010. Our role is to decide if 
Halifax treated Mr M fairly and reasonably given all the circumstances of the complaint.
I also think its important to note, that this all happened in very unusual times. Banks were 
being asked to work in different ways to normal due to the pandemic. At the time of Mr Ms 
visit, the government legislation said that mask wearing was compulsory unless a person 
was exempt from wearing one. It also said that people dont have to give details of the 
nature of their exemption or provide evidence. 
Mr M has explained that he believes Halifax discriminated against him by asking for details 
of his exemption and denying entry to the branch. I understand why Mr M feels this way and 
that the guidance issued by the government says theres no requirement on people to 
provide an exemption card or explain why theyre exempt from wearing a mask. 
But I also have to take Halifaxs comments into account. Halifax says Mr M initially told the 
security guard he wasnt willing to wear a mask and it was only later that he told staff about 
being exempt. I think its clear that matters quickly escalated and became heated. 
The statements provided by Halifax do say Mr M was asked about his exemption during the 
exchange. I agree that wasnt in line with government guidance. But by that point, Halifax the 
situation had developed to a point where it was unwilling to allow Mr M to enter the branch. 
I understand theres a significantly different version of events provided by each of the 
parties. And I dont doubt that the situation became stressful and heated for everyone 
involved. Whilst I understand Mr M feels Halifaxs decision to deny entry was solely based 
on him not wearing a mask and refusing to provide details of his exemption, it appears to me 
that matters escalated to a point where entering the branch for banking purposes was no 
longer a reasonable option for any of the parties involved. Im not persuaded that solely 
related to the issues raised concerning Mr Ms exemption. I havent found it was unfair of 
Halifax to deny entry in the circumstances. 
I can see government guidance says people dont have to provide evidence of an exemption 
or explain why theyre exempt from wearing a mask. So I can appreciate Mr M was upset at 
the questions asked following the initial denial of entry. Our investigator recommended 
Halifax pay Mr M £75 for the trouble and upset caused. Ive considered everything Mr M has 
told us about the impact of the questions he was asked. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that £75 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M. So Im going to 
proceed and award £75 in this case. 
Halifax said it took the decision to close Mr M and Miss Ps account after his visit. Halifaxs 
terms and conditions allow it to close accounts so Im not able to agree its made a mistake 
or treated Mr M and Miss P unfairly by taking that decision in this case. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr M and Miss Ps complaint and directing 
Halifax to pay them £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
to pay Mr M and Miss P £75. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M and Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman