DRN-4035073
The complaint
A company (S), complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
(Virgin Money) hasnt protected it from losing money to a scam. 
Mr and Mrs W  directors of S  bring the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in 2021 S made some payments to a company (J) which it thought 
was legitimate. The payments were instructed by S on the following dates for the following 
amounts.
26 March 2021 £4,578.60
6 April 2021 £1,500
7 April 2021 £500
21 August 2021 £7,619.68
21 August 2021 £7,619.68
S subsequently considered it had been scammed by J and got in touch with Virgin Money. 
Ultimately, Virgin Money didnt reimburse Ss funds, and S referred its complaint about 
Virgin Money to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision.
I sent S and Virgin Money my provisional decision earlier this month explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. I said that before finalising my decision, Id consider any 
further comments from the parties so long as I received them by 20 September 2023. To 
date I have received no reply from either party to my provisional decision, and Im now ready 
to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained why again below. 
A first consideration in a case like this would normally be: was J operating a scam as S 
alleges? This often wouldnt, in a case like this, be a straightforward question to address. 
This is because to be satisfied S fell victim to fraud, Id need to be persuaded J had a settled 
intention to scam S; and it would be difficult to know what was in the mind of J when it 
agreed to carry out the services for S. 
Here, though, Im satisfied that I dont need to answer the question of whether or not S was 
most likely scammed. This is because I dont think I could uphold the complaint either way, 
for the following reasons. 
S has referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This was introduced by 
the Lending Standards Board in 2019. It is one of the more recent initiatives in response to 
the increasing amount of fraud and scams. Generally, where the CRM code does apply 
(which is not everywhere), it requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code, however, 
does not cover private civil disputes. However, even if I accepted Ss case here isnt about a 
private civil dispute but about it actually having been scammed by J, I still couldnt ask Virgin 
Money to refund S under the CRM code. This is because the CRM code is voluntary. And 
whilst Virgin Money is covered under the CRM code from 28 February 2022, this isnt 
retrospective. So, I wouldnt be able to reasonably tell Virgin Money to refund Ss payments 
(made in 2021) on the basis of the CRM code.   
The CRM code, however, didnt and doesnt replace other various and long-standing 
obligations payment service providers like Virgin Money have to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests. But these obligations are predicated on there 
having been a fraud or scam. So, if J was not operating a scam, Virgin Money had no 
obligation to prevent Ss payments to J, and so I couldnt reasonably hold it responsible for 
not preventing the payments. 
If, on the other hand, J was operating a scam, Im satisfied I still couldnt reasonably uphold 
the complaint. I say this because:
Im satisfied S authorised the relevant payments. Virgin Money would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, S would 
be presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where it 
authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice 
Virgin Money should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments 
made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect 
Virgin Money to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In this case, I couldnt reasonably say Virgin Money ought to have been obliged to 
intervene in Ss first payment of £4,578.60. S is, after all, a limited company; it had, in 
its account history, made a larger payment than this. And I cant say this instruction 
would have been unusual enough to say it ought to have caught Virgin Moneys 
attention before it followed Ss instructions to send it.
The second and third payments (listed above) would likely have not concerned Virgin 
Money either, being made to a, by now, established payee, and for lesser amounts, 
without anything else remarkable or suspicious about them. 
The fourth and fifth payments were larger. And they were both for the same amount. 
But by now, Ss previous account activity would not only have shown previous 
payments for the £4,578.68 (and above), but also an unrelated payment of £20,000 
in June 2021. So, Im not persuaded I can reasonably say the amount of these two 
final payments to J, taken singularly or together, ought reasonably to have looked 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious to Virgin Money in order for it to have been obliged 
to have paused them, pending enquiries with S, before following Ss instructions to 
send them. Given the fourth and fifth payments to J were for exactly the same amount, I have 
nevertheless, for the sake of completeness, thought about what I think most likely 
would have happened if Virgin Money had paused these payments, pending 
enquiries with S, to check S wasnt at risk of financial harm from fraud or a scam. I 
am not persuaded, though, that even this is likely to have made a difference. If J was 
a scam, I dont think Virgin Money could reasonably have known this. I think Virgin 
Money could, at best, have been expected to warn S about the risk of fraud and 
scams and the importance of undertaking adequate research and checks before 
making payments like this. However, whilst I understand Ss dealings with J (by now 
in August 2021) had not exactly been plain sailing, J had, after all, been approved 
and recommended by appropriate bodies, which I understand is at least part of the 
reason S decided to do business with them in the first place. I dont think its likely 
reasonable intervention from Virgin Money is likely to have changed Ss mind to send 
these further payments in these circumstances.
If J was operating a scam, therefore, Im satisfied I couldnt fairly say Virgin Money 
unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments (nor therefore Ss loss) 
 because I think its most likely if Virgin Money had intervened this wouldnt have 
prevented S from making the payments anyway.
Im also not persuaded Virgin Money can be fairly and reasonably held responsible for Ss 
failure to recover the payments after they were made. Even if I assumed in Ss favour that J 
was operating a scam, it is my understanding that S didnt tell Virgin Money until 2022 that it 
thought it had been scammed. This is some time after the payments. And in my experience, 
it would be uncommon (if I assume this was a scam) for the funds to be available for 
recovery from the recipient account by then. Bearing this in mind, alongside that Virgin 
Money, in order to obtain co-operation from the recipient bank, would have needed to have 
persuaded it S had been scammed rather than this being a civil dispute, I think the chances 
of the funds being recoverable by the time S contacted Virgin Money were basically zero.
So, in summary, I dont think I can tell Virgin Money to reimburse S. If S wasnt scammed, 
thered be no obligations on Virgin Money to have done anything. And even if S was 
scammed, it wouldnt be covered under the CRM code, and I wouldnt reasonably expect 
Virgin Money to have been able to prevent the payments or to have recovered them. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S and S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman