DRN-1373880
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the valuation Ageas Insurance Limited offered for his motorbike under 
his motor insurance policy after it was declared a total loss. 
What happened
Mr Rs bike was declared a total loss after an accident. Ageas offered Mr R £2,220, less the 
policy excess, in settlement of his claim. It said this was based on the motor trade guide 
valuations for the bike and took into account the lower than average mileage. But Mr R said 
the bike was worth £3,500. He said he couldnt replace his bike with Ageas settlement. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
should offer Mr R the valuation of his bike at the time of loss. He thought Ageas offer was 
within the range of the average valuation provided by the motor trade guides we use. So he 
thought it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R replied that Ageas valuation didnt take into account the rarity of his bike. He said 
advertisements for similar bikes to his were priced much higher.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to vehicle valuations is that we dont provide valuations for vehicles but seek 
to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr R said that his bike was insured for £3,500 and he thought Ageas should offer him this in 
settlement of his claim. Ive seen policys for rare vehicles which provide for an agreed value 
in the case of total loss. But Mr Rs policy isnt an agreed value policy. His policy provides for 
the bikes market value immediately before the loss. So although Mr R estimated the value 
of his bike as £3,500, Ageas is only required to pay the market value in the case of its total 
loss. 
Our investigator thought Ageas offer was fair and reasonable so Ive checked how he came 
to this view. I can see that he obtained valuations from the motor trade guides we use for Mr 
Rs bike, with the correct make, model, age and mileage. The valuations had a wide range, 
so I think an average of them, or the mid-point valuation, £2,232, would be a fair and 
reasonable offer.  This is very close to Ageas offer of £2,220. So, in keeping with our 
approach, I think Ageas offer is fair and reasonable and I dont require it to increase this. Mr R said that hed seen bikes like his advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman