DRN-2735564
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) closed her Aqua credit card
account.
What happened
Ms M had an Aqua card and a Marbles card. They were both provided by NewDay Ltd. In
September 2018, Aqua sold the debt of £1545 on Ms Ms Marbles card to a debt collection
agency. In May 2020, Ms M tried to use her Aqua card and found it was suspended. Aqua
closed the account.
Ms M complained  she needed the card to do shopping. She hadnt been given any notice
that Aqua were going to close her account. Her account had been managed well  shed
made all the monthly payments  and more - and it was well within the credit limit of £1600.
She didnt know that Aqua and Marbles cards were owned by the same company.
Aqua said theyd decided to close the account as Ms M had told them she was in financial
difficulty  in connection with her Marbles card - and couldnt afford to pay. When this
happened, they looked at all cards that a customer had with them. As part of being a
responsible lender, they might close another account  to make sure that customers didnt
borrow more than they could afford. They accepted that when Ms M called them in May
2020  she was told the account was closed because shed asked for that. This was a
mistake. So, they apologised and paid compensation of £10.
Ms M brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened.
He said that Ms M couldve been considered in financial difficulty and therefore Aqua
shouldve contacted her to understand how they could be helped. Ms M hadnt asked for her
account to be closed. And Aquas terms and conditions said that they shouldve given 30
days notice to Ms M before closing her account. He said that Aqua should pay
compensation of £100. 
 Aqua disagreed and asked that Ms Ms complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. While I uphold Mr Ms complaint, it is in the basis of
a different analysis.
Ms Ms complaint is that her Aqua card account was closed by Aqua out of spite  because
her other Marbles card had been sold to debt collectors. She says her Aqua account was
being run properly  she was making regular payments to it, and she was well within the
credit limit of £1600. She had no idea that Aqua were going to close the account  and was
given no notice. She was therefore left without any means of buying day to day essentials
such as food. She tried to log into internet banking but that was blocked. When she called
Aqua to try to sort things out, she was told the account had been closed because shed told
Aqua that she couldnt afford the payments and had asked for it to be closed. She didnt
know that the Aqua card and Marbles card were both owned by NewDay Ltd.
What happened - by way of background - is that Ms Ms Marbles card debt of £1545 was
sold to a debt collector in September 2018. Thats not the subject of Ms Ms complaint here.
Aqua say that where a customer is in financial difficulty and having trouble in making
payments  then they have an obligation to ensure that they dont borrow too much money.
Thats in the interest of its customers. And they can look at all the cards and products that
they offer to do that. So  they could look at the Aqua and Marbles card together. And they
can suspend, stop or cancel accounts without notice.
Their terms and conditions say We may refuse to authorise a transaction or reissue a
replacement card, or we may cancel or suspend your use of the account or reduce your
credit limit if not doing so would put us in breach of any legal requirements that apply to us or
we reasonablyBelieve that there is an increased risk that you may not be able to repay the
amount you owe us (this could be because of the way you manage this account or other
accounts you have with us, information we get from credit reference agencies or us finding
that you are bankrupt or have made an arrangement with your creditors, or because you
have not been making sufficient payments to your account and we reasonably believe that
you may be in financial distress)
So  theres no doubt that Aqua were acting within their terms and conditions when they
suspended Ms Ms Aqua card account and then closed it  and they didnt have to give any
notice.
But  I must decide whether they acted fairly in this case  and I dont think they did.
Ive looked at how Ms Ms account operated. The limit was increased from £600 to £1600
between September 2016 and October 2019. The increases in limits were offered
proactively by Aqua. Ms M couldve opted out of the offers but didnt. The month end
balance varied between £492 and £1555 debit in the same period. There were only five
over-limit fees charged, and no late fees made in the three-year period. So, the account was
pretty well run.
Ive looked at the statements for the card account for the six-month period from December
2019 to May 2020 (when the account was closed by Aqua). These show no instances of late
payments or over limit balances. And the statement balances were:
December 2019 - £1405 debit (limit £1600)
January 2020 - £1369 debit (limit £1600)
February 2020 - £1006 debit (limit £1600)
March 2020 - £6 debt (limit £1600)
April 2020 - £1 credit (limit £1600)
May 2020 - £57 debit (limit £1600)
These do not suggest Ms M was in financial difficulty at all. Ms M said to Aqua in her call to
them in May 2020 that she was running her account well  and I agree with her. On the face
of it, she didnt appear to present an increased credit risk to Aqua.
And  if Aqua did consider Ms M to be in financial difficulty and was having trouble in making
payments  then they shouldve got in touch with her to see what could be done to help.
Where this is the case - businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial
difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses
like Aqua should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For
example, a business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments or defer them,
and allow customers more time to repay their debt. But  Aqua didnt get in touch with Ms M
 they just closed her account.I accept that Aqua followed their processes here, but strictly following a procedure or
process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their
situation. I think thats whats happened here.
The outcome was that Ms M was left without a card  her account was closed without any
warning. This was inconvenient and stressful. So, my provisional decision is that Aqua
should pay compensation of £200. I cant insist that they re-open an account for Ms M.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Ms M accepted my findings  but said that Aqua hadnt paid the £10 compensation they 
offered. 
Aqua disagreed. They said (in summary):
It was clear to Ms M that Aqua and Marbles accounts were run by the same company 
 this was on statements and mailings.
They acted within their terms and conditions to suspend and close Ms Ms Aqua 
account.
They agreed the account was being run well, but theyd been advised she was in 
financial difficulties and therefore they acted responsibly in closing her account  to 
ensure she didnt get into more debt. They didnt get in touch with Ms M to discuss 
how they could help  because the balance was zero  and so there wasnt any 
support that could be given.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reflected on what Aqua have said in their response to my provisional decision. 
I agree that the statements for Marbles and Aqua do say that credit is provided by NewDay 
Ltd. But - its shown in the small print at the bottom of the final page. And  for a 
customer to make a connection between that reference shown individually on each cards 
statement  and then to consider what that might mean - is asking a lot. 
I agree that Aqua had the right to close the account  within their terms and conditions. I 
reflected that in my provisional findings. But  there are occasions - when a business relies 
on its processes and term and conditions  that this results in an unfair outcome for a 
customer  and I think thats whats happened here. Given that Ms Ms account was being 
run well  it just seems unfair to simply close her account without any warning or discussion. 
I accept that if Ms Ms account wasnt being conducted as well as it was  then Aquas 
actions might well have been justified.
Ive considered Aquas argument regarding Ms Ms financial difficulties  that there was 
nothing to discuss with her because her balance was zero (or very low). But, there was still a 
credit limit of £1600 in place  and so Aquas potential risk was for that amount. And, so  if 
she was in financial difficulty, then they shouldve contacted her to discuss matters. 
Especially as the account was running well  to find out what was happening.So  my final decision is to uphold this complaint  and ask Aqua to pay to Ms M 
compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. This to include Aquas original offer of 
£10.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
NewDay Ltd  trading as Aqua must pay to Ms M compensation of £200, to include their 
original offer of £10.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman