DRN-2627076
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt properly 
pursue a chargeback request on his behalf.
What happened
In early October 2019 Mr B made a purchase from an online company, which Ill refer to here 
as B. He made a payment of £156.14 to B via a third party (P) using his AESEL card. 
When Mr B received his order, he said one of the items was damaged. 
On 12 November 2019 Mr B wrote to AESEL asking it to either raise a chargeback request 
or pursue a refund request on his behalf under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
AESEL raised a chargeback request on Mr Bs behalf under the code for goods or services 
not as described or defective. It contacted B in order to ascertain its position regarding Mr 
Bs claim. And, on 21 November 2019, AESEL resolved the dispute in Mr Bs favour. This 
resulted in a credit of £101.50 being applied to his account. And Mr B was sent a letter 
informing him of the outcome of his chargeback request and confirming that the credit could 
be reversed if B provided evidence to the contrary. 
On 1 January 2020 Mr B contacted AESEL to further discuss his dispute. He said B had 
agreed to issue a full refund for his order, which had been fully returned. But B had informed 
Mr B it wasnt able to process a full refund due to the credit that AESEL had applied.
Mr B asked AESEL to reverse the credit of £101.50 to enable B to issue the full refund it had 
promised. AESEL asked him to provide supporting evidence of his agreement with B, which 
he did the same day. On receipt, AESEL, reviewed the information Mr B had provided. And it 
actioned his request. The refund was reversed on 8 January 2020. 
Subsequent to AESEL reversing the credit on Mr Bs account, B reneged on its agreement to 
issue a full refund. So, no refund was forthcoming. Mr B contacted AESEL to explain what 
had happened and it opened a new chargeback claim on his behalf. It then contacted M to 
make further enquiries about why it hadnt refunded Mr B and to pursue the chargeback 
request on his behalf.
Mr B was dissatisfied with how his chargeback claim had been dealt with by AESEL. So, he 
complained. AESEL investigated his concerns and issued its final response to his complaint 
on 19 March 2020. It also processed a full refund on this date. 
In its complaint correspondence, AESEL explained that it didnt think it had made an error in 
dealing with Mr Bs chargeback request as it had followed its process correctly. So, it didnt 
uphold the complaint hed made.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service where our investigator assessed the evidence he 
and AESEL had provided. But they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. While they 
empathised with Mr B, they didnt think AESEL had acted unreasonably or done anything 
wrong. And they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Mr B rejected our 
investigators view of his complaint and asked an ombudsman to decide it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess whether I think AESEL made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly in 
how it dealt with his refund request, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having 
thought carefully about everything he and AESEL have said, Im afraid to say that I dont 
think it did. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by this outcome  I recognise his strength 
of feeling about what happened. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
I can see Mr B and AESEL have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some 
detailed submissions. I want to assure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve 
sent us. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome
The first part of Mr Bs complaint is about whether AESEL should have dealt with his refund 
request under the provisions of section 75. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
As Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr B completed his purchase with B 
via a third party  P. In doing so, he wasnt eligible for section 75 protection. Im therefore 
unable to evidence an error in AESEL dealing with Mr Bs request for a refund as a 
chargeback request.
Ill turn now to whether AESEL made an error in how it dealt with Mr Bs chargeback request. 
I think its important to explain at the outset that chargeback is the process by which 
payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the 
relevant card scheme rules. So, in certain circumstances a customer may ask their card 
issuer to reverse payments made on their card  such as where there's a problem with the 
transaction. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. So, a consumer doesnt have a right to bring a 
claim. Although theres no obligation on AESEL to do a chargeback, we consider it good 
practice for a business to try to claim if it has good reason to do so. 
But its important to note that, even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a 
consumer will receive a refund because it may be defended by the merchant in line with the 
relevant card scheme rules.
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, AESELs role here is to raise the appropriate chargeback, 
and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules. 
In this Mr B requested a refund because an item hed ordered was delivered in a damaged 
condition. And AESEL correctly identified that the crux of his chargeback claim centred on 
the quality of the item hed purchased. AESELs chargeback rules allow a chargeback to be made when goods and services are not 
as described or defective. This was the chargeback reason AESEL used in Mr Bs claim, 
which Im satisfied correctly identified the problem he was raising.
After AESEL started the chargeback process it upheld Mr Bs claim in his favour and applied 
a refund to his account, which covered the cost of the damaged item. This was in line with 
what Id expect AESEL to do. So, Im satisfied it acted correctly here.
I can see that AESEL gave Mr B an explanation of the outcome of his chargeback complaint. 
And it notified him that, if B provided evidence to the contrary, the refund could be reversed. 
Again, this is what Id expect AESEL to do.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr B made AESEL aware, on 1 January 2020, that B had 
agreed to refund the online order in full on reversal of the credit that had already been 
applied. I havent seen anything to suggest AESEL was aware of this agreement prior to this 
date. So, I dont think the initial amount it credited Mr Bs account with was incorrect.
Once AESEL was aware of Mr Bs agreement with B it requested evidence, which I think 
was reasonable. And I also think this also demonstrates that AESEL was putting the 
interests of Mr B first. On being presented with that evidence, AESEL acted in line with Mr 
Bs wishes in reversing the credit it had applied. Im satisfied the reversal was actioned 
promptly  the funds being returned to B on 8 January 2020.
I think its important to mention that, while B reneged on its agreement to refund Mr B, 
AESEL had no reason to suspect, or way of knowing, that B would act in this manner. So, it 
would be unfair for me to hold it responsible for what happened.
I can see that AESEL promptly initiated a new chargeback request on behalf of Mr B on 
finding out he hadnt been refunded by B as promised. This was proper and reasonable 
action for AESEL to take in the circumstances. 
After it raised a new chargeback, AESEL made further enquiries with B, which were 
necessary. It needed to establish why B hadnt processed the refund it had promised Mr B. 
And Im satisfied that, following those enquiries, AESEL processed Mr Bs refund at the 
earliest opportunity.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think AESEL dealt with Mr Bs chargeback 
request fairly. It did all it could to resolve this dispute. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B I do hope hes able to 
accept the explanations hes now been given. Based on what Ive seen Im in agreement 
with the investigator for the same reasons that this complaint should not be upheld. This now 
brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with AESEL informally, can do for 
him. Im sorry we cant help Mr B further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman