DRN-3842670
The complaint
Mr B complains that he didnt receive paperwork on a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi). As a result he missed the payment deadline date 
incurring interest. He would like a refund of the interest minus the interest that accrued for 
the six days he was late paying.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here .Instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr B took out a loan agreement with buy now pay later (BNPL) terms in July 2020. 
This meant he had 12 months of interest free credit. He says he didnt get any 
paperwork in the post about the loan. However, in his complaint form he  told us he 
did get an email from Mitsubishi and knew he had to start to pay the loan back by 21 
July 2021. So, I cant conclude he wasnt aware of the repayment date  which he 
missed by six days.
Mr B said he didnt get a reminder nor any information that clearly stated if he missed 
the deadline interest would be back dated to 22 July 2020.  I have looked at the 
information the business provided. The loan agreement states that payments will 
start 12 months after the supply or installation of goods, that it will tell Mr B when the 
first payment is due and that if he pays the full amount off by the deferred first 
payment date no interest will be due. The contract doesnt specifically state what 
happens if the full amount isnt paid off by the deferred first payment date. But given 
it states no interest will be due if the amount is paid off in full by the first deferred 
payment date, that implies interest would apply if the full amount isnt paid off
However, I have looked at the other information the business gave Mr B. its not clear 
to me if the correspondence was posted or emailed . If posted it seems the correct 
address was used so I dont know why Mr B wouldnt have got this information . And 
if emailed as Mr B has told us he did get an email from the business I dont know why 
he wouldnt have got other emails. So, I do believe this information was sent to him.
The business wrote to Mr B in July 2020 to confirm direct debit details and that the 
first payment would be taken on 22 July 2021. It also  wrote on 10 June 2021 giving 
Mr B the options for his agreement. Option 1 states he could pay the loan off early, 
and if he did so by 22 July 2021 he wouldnt  incur any interest charges. Option 2 for 
partial early repayment states that  if partial repayment is made before 22 July 2021 
interest would only apply after this date. Option three - to pay the loan back on a 
monthly basis states that in this case interest would be charged from the start of the 
agreement which would include interest backdated to 22 July 2020.This letter doesnt 
outline what happens if no payment at all  was made by 22 July 2021. But I think it 
would be clear to most consumers that, if under option 3 (to make monthly payments) 
interest would be incurred from the start of the loan agreement, if no payment were 
made by the due date its likely that interest would also be charged from the start of 
the agreement. And backdating interest if payment isnt made on the due date is 
standard for a BNPL agreement. 
I think Mitsubishis information could have been more specific, but I am persuaded 
that there was sufficient information for Mr B to realise what his options were to pay 
off his loan but he didnt do so.  And whilst I appreciate Mr Bs frustration that he was 
only days late in making a payment, as he didnt meet the terms of the agreement I 
cant say that Mitsubishi were wrong to charge interest for the first year of the loan. 
So, on that basis I cant reasonably ask it to refund the interest incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman