DRN-3149543
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Arval UK Limited misadvised her about the amount due to settle her
finance agreement and made a mistake when crediting her account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint and Im expecting to tell
Arval to pay more compensation. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
I think Arval made a couple of mistakes here. At the end of October 2020, they told Mrs L
that as a result of payments received from her insurer there was a zero balance on her
account, but that wasnt true and a couple of weeks later Arval asked Mrs L to pay them the
balance. They calculated that balance to be £449.69 after theyd added a £30 administration
fee. Arval also refunded a direct debit to Mrs L in error and they wanted that money back. 
Im persuaded that the money Arval have now requested to clear the balance of the account
is correct. Thats because theyve shared information about what the balance was on the
account and what the insurers paid them after the car was declared a write off. The balance
including the administration fee is £449.69. Im also persuaded that the direct debit was
refunded in error.
So, Ive considered how to put things right for Mrs L. I dont think it would be reasonable to
ask Arval to waive these sums as I think the money is fairly due to them.
But I think its is fair for Arval to compensate Mrs L for the distress and any inconvenience
she was caused as a result of the mistakes that have been made.
Ive considered our published guidance on how much that compensation should be. Ive not
seen evidence that Mrs L was financially disadvantaged by Arvals mistakes, but I can
understand it would have been distressing for her to think she didnt owe anything and
subsequently to be faced with a bill for several hundred pounds. Mrs L has explained that
around that time she was entering into a new arrangement to finance a different car and I
can understand her view that had she been aware she owed the money she did she may not
have agreed to so much finance. The mistakes lasted for several weeks and Mrs L felt the
need to escalate her complaint to this service as she hadnt been provided with enough
evidence from Arval to explain how theyd calculated the balance on the account.
Taking all that into account I dont think Arvals compensation of £30 is sufficient. I think their
errors caused Mrs L more than the levels of frustration and annoyance I would reasonably
expect from day to day life and took a reasonable effort for Mrs L to sort out. The mistakes
resulted in stress lasting several weeks and resulted in a loss of expectation. In those
circumstances Im expecting to tell Arval to pay Mrs L a further £170 compensation, making
£200 in total.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Arval UK
Limited to pay Mrs L a further £170 compensation in respect of the distress and
inconvenience their actions have caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arval didnt have any further information to add but Mrs L did. She stressed that she wouldnt 
have entered into an agreement costing £20 a month more if she knew she still owed 
hundreds of pounds to Arval and that she had to proceed with the agreement as she needed 
the car for work. She said she felt aggrieved that she still owed money to the business.
I explained in my provisional decision that I am persuaded that the balance on the account is 
due but that I thought it was fair for Arval to compensate Mrs L for the mistakes they made. 
Ive not seen any evidence that suggests that compensation should be any higher, so Ive 
not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Arval UK Limited to 
pay Mrs L a further £170 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience their 
actions have caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman