DRN-2738612
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) handled the 
cancellation of his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Os commercial motor policy for a van renewed in October 2019, with a fault claim being 
made on it in November 2019. Mr O later wrote to his broker, Brightside, in May 2020 to say 
hed changed his address. Brightside emailed Mr O back to explain it wouldnt be able to 
update his address just based on what hed sent  and he would need to call in to discuss 
the proposed change. When it didnt hear from him, Brightside issued a cancellation notice  
which said hed no longer have cover on the policy after 3 June 2020. That notice was sent 
by post to Mr Os old address (the one Brightside still held on file for him).
Mr O had a redirect in place, and so received Brightsides cancellation notice to his new 
address  but a day after the cover was due to end. He called Brightside on 4 June 2020 
and was told the policy hadnt yet been cancelled. The agent attempted to change the 
address on the policy over the phone, but the insurer declined to offer cover at his new 
postcode. As a result the policy was cancelled with effect from that day.
Brightside says it told Mr O during the call the account was in the direct debit cycle  and so 
would only know whether anything was outstanding on the policy once that payment had 
cleared. Mr O says he was told that last direct debit payment would be refunded. Brightside 
wrote to him to confirm the cover had been cancelled from 4 June 2020  and then sent 
another letter again a few days confirming he owed £94.62. It said payment needed to be 
made within 7 days, or it would try and take the outstanding amount from the card on file.
When Brightside didnt hear from Mr O it attempted to take payment from the card details 
held on file, but as that card had expired the payment didnt go through. Brightside asked a 
debt collection firm to recover the amount  and following contact from that firm, Mr O raised 
a complaint in July 2020. He told Brightside it had terminated his insurance after eight 
months but had still taken a payment the day after it was cancelled. Mr Os letter complained 
that Brightside failed to refund the last payment or pay him the rebate he thought he was due 
as a result of the governments Covid-19 initiative. He was also unhappy that his account 
was passed to a recovery firm without prior notice, which he said amounted to harassment. 
Brightside responded to the complaint in August 2020. In its email the broker said it couldnt 
give him information about the outstanding amount owed when he called in June 2020, as 
his direct debit was already in the 5-day cycle. Brightside said the policy had been cancelled 
because Mr Os insurer was unable to quote at his new address, and also explained that his 
insurer didnt offer him a refund as a result the governments Covid-19 initiative. Brightside 
maintained that it hadnt harassed Mr O by attempting to collect the outstanding amount  
but recalled the debt from the collection firm for 30 days, so he had the opportunity to call in 
and make the payment. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the response, and so referred things to our service for review. He 
said Brightside had quoted his new address incorrectly and had promised him a refund of 
the last payment during the call in June 2020. He added that he hadnt received the letter 
asking him to pay the outstanding balance, as it had been posted to his previous address  
nor had Brightside explained, with a breakdown, why he owed that amount.
An investigator here reviewed everything and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
acknowledged that Brightside could have sent all correspondence about the cancellation by 
email, once the broker became aware Mr O had moved  but said that hed received some 
of the correspondence (due to having a redirect in place, and some of it being sent by 
email). So she thought he was reasonably aware of what was happening. The investigator 
also concluded the house number being wrong on the final response hadnt made a 
difference, as the quote was based on the postcode (which had been correct). She said his 
new address not being within the acceptable criteria, and the decision to not reduce Mr Os 
premium due to the pandemic, were issues for the insurer to answer rather than Brightside. 
As Mr O didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy sets out the capacity in which Brightside operates as We act on your behalf 
when arranging and administering your policy. We act as agents of the insurer when 
collecting premiums and handling refunds. In this decision Ive looked at the complaint 
points about the cancellation, when Brightside was acting in its own capacity  and Ive 
signalled when the insurer would take responsibility for some aspects of the complaint.
Mr O is unhappy, at least in part, that his insurance was cancelled, and no refund was due to 
him following that. But it was his insurer, rather than Brightside, who decided the risk at his 
new postcode wasnt acceptable  which is the reason the policy was cancelled. Brightside 
handled the administration behind the cancellation. It was also Mr Os insurer who decided 
that no refund was due  as it was responsible for calculating the account balance. I 
appreciate that Mr O had concerns about what hed been told by Brightside, due to the 
wrong house number for his new address being quoted in the final response. But Im 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the quote failed based on his postcode, which was 
entered correctly when the change of address was attempted by Brightside. 
Mr O is also unhappy that a payment was taken after the policy had been cancelled. The 
terms stipulated the full annual premium would become payable (on cancellation) if a claim 
had been made on the policy. There had been a claim on Mr Os policy, so that last payment 
(and a bit extra) was owed anyway  though I cant see that was explained to him. But 
ultimately, any action taken in respect of premium collection was done on behalf of the 
insurer. It would also have been the insurers responsibility to explain to Mr O how the 
account balance had been calculated (why the last payment wasnt being refunded).
I havent been able to listen to the call Brightside had with Mr O in June 2020, as a recording 
of it is no longer available. Mr O says the agent told him during the call the last payment 
would be refunded. But that seems at odds with what both parties have said about Brightside 
not being able to confirm what was owed or whether any refunds were due. Brightside say 
that up to 30 days is allowed to calculate a policy balance following cancellation  so the 
broker believes its unlikely any guarantees were given during the call. The letter Mr O sent 
to Brightside on the same day as the call refers to consideration to refund any balance due 
 which sounds less definite, and more like he was under the impression a calculation would 
take place. Brightside wouldve been aware Mr O had made a claim on the policy  so I think there was 
an opportunity lost during the call to be up front with him that a refund of his final direct debit 
was unlikely. But, on balance, I dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me Brightside 
made promises that Mr O would definitely be entitled to a refund. Given the responsibility for 
calculating the balance lay with the insurer, I also dont consider it was wrong for Brightside 
to say it would wait for that to happen before confirming whether there would be a refund. 
It was also the insurer, rather than Brightside, that didnt offer any reduction in premium due 
to the national lockdown. From what Ive seen, Brightside only offered consideration of that 
rebate  and it wasnt responsible for setting the cost of the insurance. The final response 
said the low number of annual miles allowed on the policy for social, domestic & pleasure 
use was the reason no rebate was offered. But if Mr O remains unhappy with that decision, 
hed need to pursue a complaint against the insurer.
The notice of cancellation, confirmation of cancellation and letter containing information 
about what was owed on the policy were sent to Mr Os old address. Some of those got to 
Mr O, via the redirect he had in place. Its unclear why the other letter didnt reach him  
possibly because the redirect was only in place for a set a period. Brightside was only acting 
in its own capacity when administering the cancellation  and the notice arrived, albeit late. I 
accept that Brightside was aware the address it held on file for Mr O was no longer correct, 
so it could have emailed the cancellation notice as well. But the letter still arrived in time for 
Mr O to discuss the policy before the cancellation actually took place, so I think any potential 
impact was avoided. 
The correspondence that wasnt received by Mr O related to collecting the outstanding 
premium amount  and when Brightside didnt hear from him the account was passed to a 
recoveries firm. The insurer takes responsibility for any errors in that process (as Brightside 
was acting as its agent). 
My final decision
Mr final decision is I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman