DRN-3139953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly switched their whole 
mortgage to interest only when they made a lump sum payment to their mortgage. That left 
them with an unexpected balance to pay at the end of term.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs M had a part repayment, part interest only mortgage with Barclays. They had 
£16,000 on interest only. In August 2013, they made a lump sum payment to the mortgage. 
But at that time, the whole mortgage was switched incorrectly to interest only by Barclays.
When the mortgage was due to end, Mr and Mrs M discovered what had happened  and 
that they had an additional balance of £8,525.77 that they didnt have the means to repay.
Mr and Mrs M said that they have been affected both mentally and financially by what 
happened. They want Barclays to write off the remaining balance.
I issued a provisional decision. Subject to any further submissions, I made the following 
findings, which also form part of this decision:
What happened to Mr and Mrs M is what we call mortgage underfunding. That is where, 
because of a mistake by a business, a consumer pays less than they should towards their 
mortgage leaving them with a shortfall to repay.
Our approach to redress is longstanding and published on our website. I would expect 
Barclays to apply redress in line with that without the need for a consumer to refer their 
complaint to our service.
There is no dispute that Barclays made a mistake here in switching the repayment part of 
the mortgage to interest only. The starting point for me  as in every upheld complaint  is 
to put the affected party back in the position they would have been in had the mistake not 
occurred. If that had happened, it seems more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would 
have continued to make the payments that they needed to repay the repayment part of 
their mortgage. As far as I am aware, they have always paid what they needed to. So if the 
mistake had not occurred, Mr and Mrs M would have repaid their mortgage.
While Mr and Mrs M have made savings as a result of paying less than they needed to, 
there is no evidence to show that those savings are now realisable. It seems likely that the 
money they have saved was used up in day-to-day expenditure.
Further, because Mr and Mrs M had made a lump sum payment shortly before the mistake 
occurred it would not have been apparent to them that the payment had been set 
incorrectly.
On the other hand, the annual statement issued in October 2013 stated the mortgage was 
interest only. And subsequent annual statements show that the balance wasnt reducing. 
While I accept that Mr and Mrs M werent aware of what was happening, they were given 
enough information to realise that something was wrong sooner than they did.
After very careful consideration I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
write off half the shortfall that remains on the mortgage. I consider this is fair to reflect the 
seriousness of its mistake, the impact on Mr and Mrs M and the adjustments they will have 
to make to their life to pay this unexpected shortfall that was not their fault.
Barclays should also calculate how much interest Mr and Mrs M have paid on the part of 
the mortgage that was incorrectly switched to interest only in 2013. It should then calculate 
how much interest Mr and Mrs M would have paid had that part of the mortgage continued 
on a repayment basis for the whole of the remaining term. Barclays should pay the 
difference to Mr and Mrs M and use it to reduce the remaining shortfall amount.
I accept that Mr and Mrs M have been caused a great deal of anguish and upset when 
they discovered a significant balance remained on their mortgage. I have seen what they 
have said about how it affected them. I would usually make an award to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience Barclayss mistake caused to them. But in this case the amount of the 
savings they made is greater than any award I would make for distress and 
inconvenience. So I dont think its fair to make an award for that in the circumstances of 
this cases.
Barclays should come to an acceptable and interest free plan to repay any remaining
balance.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional findings. Barclays said in addition to writing off half 
the capital shortfall and arranging an interest free loan to repay the remaining balance, it 
would honour its existing offer to refund all the interest applied since it incorrectly switched 
the mortgage to interest only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and set out 
above. Barclays made a mistake in switching the whole balance of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
to interest only in 2013. A fair way to put that right is to write off half the capital shortfall and 
allow Mr and Mrs M to repay the remaining balance interest free. Barclays has also agreed 
to refund all of the interest they have paid on that part of their mortgage since August 2013. 
That is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays UK Bank PLC should:
Write off half the shortfall - £4,262.89.
Refund all the interest it has applied to the mortgage that was incorrectly switched to 
interest only from the date of the lump sum payment in August 2013, until date of 
settlement.
Make an arrangement with Mr and Mrs M to repay the remaining balance interest free.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman