The complaint
Miss C complains about the treatment she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc while 
attempting to resolve her complaint about a disputed transaction. 
Shes also unhappy HSBC delayed her account switch and closed her current account. 
What happened
The lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a 
summary of the key issues here. 
In October 2019 Miss C raised concerns with HSBC about a debit card payment to a retailer 
for £84.94. She says she did not make or authorise the payment. HSBC advised it was 
unable to reverse an authorised pending transaction but would be happy to raise a dispute 
once it had debited her account. Miss C called back, and HSBC offered to raise a dispute 
but explained to do so, it would need to cancel her debit card. Miss C did not agree to her 
card being cancelled and a dispute was not raised. Miss C raised multiple complaints with 
HSBC as; 
given the history of fraud on her account, she was unhappy HSBC allowed a large
fraudulent card payment to be made, without any checks;
she feels her money is not safe;
It didn't reverse or refund her the amount immediately when she disputed the
transaction;
she was promised a refund, but this was not actioned, so she had to continually call
to chase; and
being without the funds affected her ability to pay for basic day to day living
expenses.
Miss C wasn't happy with HSBC's actions and whilst she continued to try to resolve matters 
with it, she also brought her complaint to this service. 
Since bringing her complaint to this service, HSBC did raise a chargeback claim, it refunded 
the disputed amount to Miss Cs account twice and paid a total of £504.94 in compensation.
Miss C remained unhappy and raised further concerns to both HSBC and this service. She 
said; 
it took HSBC a month to raise the chargeback, she was without access to her money
for that period of time, which affected her;
DRN-1749458a refund was given but a few weeks later she was advised the amount would be re-
debited from her account;
HSBC has continued to chase her for the disputed amount despite being told by a 
member of staff that it wouldnt; 
It wasnt appropriate the way managers spoke to her and told her to leave if she 
wasnt happy with HSBCs service; 
HSBC tried to prevent her account switch, caused delays, closed her account without 
her agreement; and 
she feels she has been discriminated against on the grounds of her race.
 
Our investigator looked into things and did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. He concluded 
HSBC are entitled to recover £84.94 from Miss C as this had been paid to her twice, it had 
closed her account correctly as part of the account switching process and the total amount of 
compensation which HSBC offered Miss C fell in line with what he wouldve expected a bank 
to offer for the service failings. 
Miss C did not accept the investigators outcome and felt he had not understood her 
complaint. She asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
I reviewed Miss Cs complaint and decided to call her to ensure wed understood her 
concerns. She raised some issues which I could see had not been considered. I explained in 
these circumstances I was unable to reach a decision as I needed to obtain further 
information and call recordings from HSBC. I checked with Miss C my understanding of her 
complaint, which she confirmed as correct and said she had nothing further to add. 
As some of Miss Cs concerns had not been considered by HSBC or our investigator, I 
explained new complaint points have to be put to a business first to consider. I could see 
Miss C was going through an extremely difficult time so for ease, rather than ask her to raise 
another complaint  I agreed to share these additional concerns with HSBC and ask for its 
comments. 
HSBC responded in full and having fully reviewed everything sent to me by both parties I 
reached my intended decision, which Miss C had asked, and Id agreed to share with her 
over the phone. 
As Miss C told me when we spoke that she did not agree with my findings, I sent her an 
email explaining my intended decision. 
HSBC confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Miss C did not make any further comments but asked for a written decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I really am sorry to hear of the difficult time Miss C has been through and I know this will be 
very disappointing for her as its clear she has very strong feelings about her complaint. But 
to be clear for Miss C as Ive already explained to her I wont be setting out my view on every 
piece of available evidence, nor am I able to provide comment on every point she has made. 
But I hope having had the opportunity to speak to me, has assured her that Ive listened and 
considered everything provided by her in its entirety. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. The purpose of 
my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. So, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues. 
disputed transaction and chargeback 
In short, having considered all the circumstances I agree HSBC couldve done better when 
dealing with Miss Cs disputed transaction, but Im satisfied she has been fairly compensated 
for being mis-informed and the delay in raising a chargeback. 
HSBC agreed to refund Miss C the disputed transaction despite the chargeback being 
defended. It paid the disputed amount to Miss Cs account twice  once on 4 November 
2019 and again on 15 November 2019. So, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to re-
debit one of those payments back. I can see HSBC also informed Miss C both over the 
phone and by letter of its intention to do so. Ive also listened to the relevant calls and I dont 
agree that Miss C was told or that it was suggested to her that HSBC would not be re-
claiming the over-payment. 
Nevertheless, since Ive been passed this case to consider, HSBC have advised me that it 
has written off the debt and will no longer be asking Miss C to repay it. There has been no 
financial loss in relation to the disputed amount. So, I do not need to comment further on this 
matter.
account switching 
Miss C feels strongly that her decision to switch accounts was driven by the treatment she 
received from HSBC; her concerns about her money not being safe; and because of the way 
managers had spoken to her  telling her to leave if she was not happy. 
Whilst I understand Miss Cs decision was driven by how she felt about HSBCs actions 
ultimately it was her choice about whether she wanted to keep her banking with HSBC or 
move to another bank. 
Miss C decided to move her banking. She made an online request with the help of a friend to 
switch her account to a different bank  who Ill refer to as bank T. Miss C says HSBC tried 
to prevent her account switch, caused delays and closed her HSBC current account without 
her agreement. 
T offered a seven-day switch guarantee. Miss C agreed to the terms when she made the 
request to switch using this service. This meant after seven days all direct debits and 
standing orders, as well as income payments, would be switched to the new account and 
Miss Cs old account would be closed automatically as part of the process. 
HSBC received a switch request from T on 11 November 2019 and the transfer took place 
on the 20 November 2019. There were a couple of small issues during the switch process, 
but these were resolved within a day. Ultimately, the switch was completed within the seven 
bank working days. HSBC has provided me with the correspondence between itself and T in 
relation to this matter and I cant fairly conclude any delay with the switch was as a result of 
HSBCs actions or that it had acted unreasonably.
customer service
Ive taken account of the service HSBC provided Miss C. I can see there was a delay in 
actioning her chargeback claim, she was promised things which did not happen  requiring her to chase on several occasions. However, Im satisfied the total amount of compensation 
HSBC has paid is a fair way of compensating her for the phone calls she made and 
recognising the trouble and upset she would have been caused  so I wont be asking it to 
do any more.
discrimination 
Miss C says she is the victim of racial discrimination by HSBC. But Ive explained to her that 
whilst I appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination 
has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this. I can see 
that the service given by HSBC couldve been better, but I had not seen anything to suggest 
that the delay in actioning the chargeback, HSBCs request to re-debit Miss C's account 
upon the merchant defending the claim or it closing her current account was for an improper 
reason. I know Miss C feels strongly about this but Im sorry to disappoint her but Im unable 
to make a formal determination as to whether she has been discriminated against on the 
grounds of her race  only a court can do that. 
I appreciate that Miss C feels strongly about this whole matter and HSBCs actions. But, for 
the reasons I've set out above, I don't intend to require HSBC to do anything further. I know 
Miss C will be disappointed that Im unable to uphold her complaint but my decision marks 
the end of what we can do at the ombudsman service.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman