DRN-2435585
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that she hasnt received interest that she feels is applicable to her account 
with Santander UK Plc. She thinks that the communication around this interest was 
misleading and she shouldve been contacted before.
 
Mrs F is represented in bringing her complaint. But for ease of reference, Ill refer to all 
submissions and comments as being made by Mrs F directly.
What happened
Mrs F holds a Santander Select current account. She noticed that Santander hadnt been 
paying interest as she expected and contacted it about this, complaining to Santander about 
this in August 2019. Mrs F said that Santanders statements, leaflets and online banking say 
that the interest rate paid would be 1.5%. She also said that it had not told her about the 
problems here or provided advice.
Santander said that the payment of interest was subject to an eligibility criteria. It confirmed 
the details of this - saying that at least £500 per month should be paid in and there must be 
at least two active direct debits on the account. There had been some months where only 
one direct debit had been active and so Mrs F wasnt eligible for the interest she thought she 
would be getting.
Mrs F said that she understood the criteria. She thought that the statements and online 
banking page should show an interest rate of 0% rather than 1.5%, when the account was 
not eligible. She says this is misleading and that the Santander Select Manager should have 
told her about this and provided other options. Santander did not agree, so Mrs F decided to 
refer the matter to the service.
 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. Based upon the information 
provided, they were satisfied that Mrs F didnt qualify for the interest and the information 
around this was clear. So, they didnt think Santander needed to do any more. Mrs F 
disagreed and asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Santander has shown that Mrs F didnt qualify for the interest 
she thought she was getting. I have reviewed the conduct of the account in question here, 
including bank statements and also a summary of the activity for the period from January 
2019 until the complaint to Santander in August 2019. These show that interest was paid in 
January but not for any of the other months. During the period after January, there was only 
one active direct debit. This meant that the criteria hadnt been met. This means that 
Santander were entitled not to pay interest during this period.
 
So, then Ive gone on to look at the information available from Santander and taken into 
account whether it was easy to find and if the content was clear.
 
The Santander Select leaflet says that monthly interest of 1.50% is paid on a balance of up 
to £20,000. It also shows the criteria, including the fact that there needs to be two active 
direct debits on an account. It says that payments received from any Santander personal 
accounts you are named on, are not included in the monthly funding amount.
 
I have also looked at the account statements. The account summary page shows an interest 
rate of 1.50%. It also confirms the same criteria as on the leaflet. The statement helped by 
showing the interest earned during the month. Where the criteria had not been met, the 
interest amount was shown as £0.00.
 
Santander said that its online banking page shows the same information. I have also looked 
at its website. This too shows the criteria that applies to the Select account.
So here, I think all the information that was provided to and available to Mrs F is clear and 
can be found without difficulty. So, I dont think the information is misleading. It may be that 
Mrs F didnt fully understand the criteria here or misunderstood it  but thats not something I 
think itd be fair to hold Santander liable for here. Ultimately, Mrs F didnt meet the criteria to 
qualify for the interest here and I think Santander made enough clear information available to 
help Mrs F understand how the account worked.
Santander also told Mrs F that the Select account is a self-managed product. Its for a 
customer to manage an account like this one as they wish. I have looked at their Select 
leaflet. This says that Santander Select offers Personal Support from a Relationship 
Manager. It doesnt say that select accounts offer proactive contact and support. So, I 
wouldnt expect the provider of a self-managed product to do more than Santander did here.
Taking all of this into account, I dont believe that Santander have acted unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman