The complaint
Mrs W complained about the advice she received from Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited ("L&G") on where to invest her pension contributions.
What happened
In 1988 L&G advised Mrs W to take out a with-profits personal pension plan and to contract 
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme ("SERPS"). She took out the plan and 
paid into it for a number of years. She took benefits from it in 2007.
In 2019 Mrs W complained to L&G about the advice she received in 1988. In summary, she 
said her contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost fund - which was 
unsuitable because of the lack of diversification and unnecessary costs. She said she wasn't 
made aware of the risks or costs, and that her contributions should have been spread across 
different funds to reduce the risk.
L&G felt the advice given to start the plan and to contract out of SERPS was reasonable as 
Mrs W couldn't join an occupational pension scheme and wasn't making provisions for her 
retirement. It also felt the fund Mrs W invested into was reasonable as it invested across all 
asset classes and the costs were reasonable.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt that with-
profits funds were seen at the time to come with relatively low to medium risk, and weren't 
seen as costly. He also felt enough had been done to make Mrs W aware of the costs. And 
he didn't think Mrs W would have acted differently at the time even if the information was 
clearer.
Mrs W disagreed. She said it may have been the 'norm' to sell with-profits funds but that 
didn't mean it was right. She also said costs were important in respect of returns and it's 
wrong now for an advisor to invest 100% of a customer's contributions in a with-profits fund 
when there are more transparent, lower risk and lower cost options - and it was wrong in 
1988 for the same reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that Mrs W hasn't complained about the advice to take out the pension plan 
or to contract out of SERPS - that wasn't mentioned anywhere in the complaint letter sent to 
L&G or in our complaint form she completed. The complaint is more about the advice given 
in respect of what fund the contributions should be invested in. Nevertheless, given what I 
know about Mrs W's circumstances at the time, I think it was reasonable to recommend her 
DRN-1873224taking out a pension plan to save benefits for retirement. And I also can't see any reasons 
why contracting out of SERPS would have been unsuitable for her at the time.
Before commenting on the complaint issues, I confirm that although I've considered all the 
points Mrs W has made I've only concentrated on what I think is important in deciding the 
complaint. Further, I think some arguments Mrs W has put forward are more about the 
suitability of with-profits funds in general - rather than in her particular case. My role is to 
look at the individual circumstances of Mrs W's complaint and decide whether she was 
treated fairly. It's not my role to comment on whether a particular product being sold on the 
market is generally suitable.
The advice was given in 1988 and the regulations and requirements weren't as stringent 
then as they are now. That's important because I can't apply today's standards to advice 
given in 1988. At the time, advisors were required to exercise due skill, care and diligence 
and to deal fairly with investors.
In terms of volatility and riskiness, whilst with-profits plans aren't entirely risk free (no 
investment product is) they are generally considered to be suitable for most consumers - 
including those who have a more cautious attitude to risk. It strikes me that our investigator's 
description of them as being a relatively low to medium risk is fair. I also haven't seen any 
evidence that there was a lack of diversification. With-profit funds tend to be invested in a 
range of assets.
L&G has provided us with a copy of Mrs W's "personal illustration" and the plan terms and 
conditions. I think it's most likely that these were given to Mrs W at the time - I think it's 
unlikely she would have proceeded without receiving some sort of documentation like this. 
Both documents have sections where the charges are outlined. So I don't think it can be 
fairly said that Mrs W wasn't made aware of them. And, as our investigator said, at the time 
with-profits plans weren't considered to be costly. I accept that with-profits structures can be 
complex and it's possible that Mrs W didn't understand every detail of how the policy worked. 
However, equally on balance, I haven't seen anything to persuade me that she would have 
acted any differently had she known and/or understood everything. In essence, at the time, 
this option probably looked like a good deal to both the advisor and Mrs W.
In terms of other options, I don't think it can be automatically said that the recommendation 
was unsuitable just because other funds might have been available that had cheaper 
charges. I agree that costs are something an advisor should consider and that they're 
important. However, Mrs W seems to suggest that cheaper funds will always be the more 
suitable choice. I don't agree with that. The interest and bonus structure with the with-profits 
fund at the time of the advice would have likely been regarded as attractive and possibly 
seen as making up for the extra costs. I don't know what specific options were discussed at 
the time. But based on the information I have I can't conclude that L&G had more suitable 
options that it didn't recommend.
Overall, I'm not persuaded that the evidence available sufficiently shows that L&G treated 
Mrs W unfairly in recommending the product it did. I think it's more likely than not that L&G's 
advisor exercised the necessary skill, care and diligence when dealing with Mrs W.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman