DRN-3269541
The complaint
Mr P complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar Financial Services refused to let 
him reject a faulty car.
What happened
Our investigator has already set out the background in some detail in his view letter so rather 
than repeat that I will give a brief summary for the purposes of this decision. However, I want 
to assure Mr P, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going 
to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
In September 2018 Mr P acquired a new car costing some £48,000 funded by a deposit of 
£1,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse.
In November 2020 he told the dealer that he had encountered a number of issues. The 
gesture tailgate wasnt working, the heated passenger seat stopped working and the head 
up display (HUD) would cut out occasionally. Mr P has told us these issues had come to light 
earlier in 2020, but due to the pandemic restrictions he had not been able to take the car 
back to the dealer. The car was taken in for a service in January 2021 and the issues were 
dealt with under warranty in March 2021. 
Mr P continued to encounter issues with the special modes in the car such as the wing 
mirrors getting stuck and the tailgate not responding to gestures. Mr P was ill at this time and 
made limited use of the car. The dealer concluded the issue was the battery going into a 
form of safe mode due to lack of use. It advised him that if he was unable to use the car 
regularly he may need to use a trickle charger or leave it running on his drive. It said that if 
he could drive it regularly that should resolve the problems. 
Mr P felt this was unreasonable and he complained to Black Horse. It rejected his complaint 
and so he brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He said that he had to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale. He 
considered that, apart from the gesture tailgate, the issues appeared to be related to the 
battery shutting down as it was designed to do. 
Mr P didnt agree and said the advice given by the dealer was not helpful or useful to his 
circumstances. He said he would not have acquired the car had he been told about the need 
to drive the car regularly or use a trickle charger. He didnt consider the closing of the wing 
mirrors to be shutting down a non-essential item.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The key issue for me to consider is whether the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale in 
2018. The first notification of Mr P notifying the dealer of his concerns is an email in 
November 2020. However, I gather these matters had come to light earlier in 2020, but Mr P 
didnt tell the dealer until later. So it seems the problems didnt arise until over a year after 
the point of sale which makes it less likely that they were present or developing at the point 
Mr P acquired the car.
I have noted an earlier email dated 7 September 2020 in which Mr P states: Also, my Smart 
Keys arent working. I thought it was the battery in the key but they still dont work after a 
battery replacement. I think this means that the car battery is either flat or not working 
correctly. This would make sense as I am driving the car less and sometimes this was 
stopping the boot from opening. How can I get this battery issue addressed?
It seems that Mr P was aware of a possible battery issue and he recognised the limited use 
he had been making of the car was the cause of the problems he was encountering.
I gather the car is designed so that if the battery is discharging it shuts down certain 
elements in the car. The cars manual says: The Intelligent Power System Management 
(IPSM) continuously monitors the condition of the main vehicle battery. If excessive battery 
discharge occurs, the system begins to shut down non-essential electrical systems, in order 
to protect the battery.
The manual also gives advice on running the car so as to recharge the battery. I dont 
believe this is unique to this model, and modern cars which contain many elements which 
are powered by the battery require regular use or charging to ensure they are able to 
maintain all the functions.
Overall, it seems to me that the issue was the lack of use which I recognise was caused by a 
combination of factors which were beyond Mr Ps control. However, I cannot say that this 
means the car was faulty when it was sold. Nor can I say that Black Horse can be held 
responsible for any advice which the dealer gave regarding charging the battery. It is 
responsible for the state of the car when sold and as I have explained I do not consider it was faulty or that it had an inherent fault. Nor do I think it likely that he would have decided 
not to acquire the car if he had been made aware of the IPSM. He has said that it was his 
boyhood ambition to own a car made by this manufacturer.
I appreciate Mr P has found it frustrating, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman