DRN-2381835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (previously when it was 
trading as Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with their mortgage.
Leeds Permanent Building Society actually sold the mortgage and PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But 
Halifax is now responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in my 
decision Ill just refer to Halifax as the business that sold the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 1991 and they were sold PPI around the same time. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks mis-selling complaint. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with this view. They told us they believed the PPI was mis-sold to 
them by Halifax because they were told that they had to have PPI or they would be refused 
the mortgage they were applying for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs K could provide any signed paperwork that shows how or 
exactly when the PPI was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale 
happened. The fact that Halifax cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me 
to uphold this complaint. 
Halifaxs records show that the PPI was set up alongside Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage from the 
start. And Mr and Mrs K told us they made their application during a meeting. So I think 
thats most likely when Halifax sold them PPI. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs K arranged their mortgage and 
took out this PPI. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly 
what was said at the time. This means that what Mr and Mrs K say about the way they were 
sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. 
In order to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks mis-selling complaint, Id have to find that its 
likely that Mr and Mrs K werent given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their 
account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage without their consent. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. PPI offered a dependable means of ensuring their monthly 
mortgage repayments were protected if they couldnt work and better protection than they 
had otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs K couldve found PPI useful if theyd 
needed to claim. And I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for 
them when they arranged their mortgage.  
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs K decided they wanted to protect their 
home by having the benefits the policy offered them and it was added on to their mortgage 
account when they chose to buy the PPI. Although I can completely understand if theyve 
forgotten this now. 
Halifax couldnt confirm how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. So, in fairness to them, it 
looked at their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI during 
the meeting Mr and Mrs K recalled. Given the lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes 
extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt 
just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs K told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what 
Mr and Mrs K have said about their circumstances at the time. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests they werent eligible for the policy. And as they were both 
contributing towards the mortgage I can see why they mightve both wanted PPI. I think its 
reasonable to assume that they mightve shared the policy benefits as both Mr and Mrs K 
were in work at the time.  
The policy covered them in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment and it 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months each time they claimed successfully. They couldve 
made repeated claims. So PPI potentially provided long term protection for the mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs K told us they didnt have any sick pay entitlement and no savings or other 
insurance they couldve relied on if they couldnt work. 
With PPI in place Mr and Mrs K could be sure theyd be able to keep on paying the mortgage 
and protect their home even if they couldnt work. So, looking at their circumstances at the 
time, I think the PPI couldve provided Mr and Mrs K with a useful benefit and it was suitable 
for them. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr and Mrs K. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ks decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. But Mr and Mrs K havent complained about 
the policy being unaffordable for them when they signed up for it. Mr and Mrs K paid for this 
policy each month. So they couldve cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra cost 
if their circumstances changed and they didnt want to continue paying for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs K probably still wouldve decided to buy 
the policy even if theyd been better informed as it couldve provided useful protection in their 
particular situation. I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put them 
off buying it. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs K told us, including 
what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But, on balance, I dont find 
theres enough information for me to say that Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of 
anything Halifax did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Mr and Mrs K have told us that they had a problem trying to claim on the policy when Mr K 
wasnt able to work and I can see that things have been very difficult for them. But this 
information doesnt affect my decision about whether or not the policy was mis-sold in the 
first place. 
In my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman