DRN-3963180
The complaint
Mr R1, represented by Mr R2, says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, 
irresponsibly lent to him. 
For ease of reading, I will refer to all points made by Mr R2 as being from Mr R1 and I will 
refer to Mr R1 as Mr R throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr R opened a credit card with Tesco on 13 June 2022. He was given a £2,400 credit limit.
There was a money transfer facility on the card and he used this frequently between 20 June
2022 and 19 July 2022. At the time he had a gambling addiction and used the credit to fund
this via the money transfers. He says Tesco ought not to have allowed these multiple
transfers to go ahead, and nor should it have given him such a high credit limit. He asks that
Tesco agree to an affordable repayment plan and that it does not default his account.
Tesco says until it was notified it of Mr Rs gambling problem on 26 July 2022 it had no way
to know how the money he transferred was being used. There was no breach of the
accounts terms and conditions. It said it could set up an affordable interest free repayment
plan if Mr R could not meet the minimum payments, but it would have to report such an
arrangement to the credit reference agencies. It would allow him to remain on such a plan
for 12 months without defaulting the account, but if a longer-term plan is required the
account would be defaulted. It also offered an interest waiver for six months if Mr R was able
to make the minimum payments.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint. He found Tesco should not have lent to Mr R and it
should have suspended Mr Rs credit facility after he made money transfers worth £1,450 in
seven days.
Tesco disagreed with this assessment. It said the scope of the complaint had changed, Mr R
had not initially raised the issue of irresponsible lending, only the authorisation of the money
transfers. Our adjudicator clarified why we would approach this case as an irresponsible
lending complaint. 
Tesco then responded in full, still in disagreement with the outcome, saying its checks 
showed Mr R would have around £330 disposable income each month after taking on this 
card. It would have been disproportionate to carry out the level of checks needed to discover 
he had a gambling problem. And as soon as it was made aware on 26 July 2022 it 
suspended his credit facility. There would have been no reason to suspend his account for 
using the money transfer facility.
As an agreement was not reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments or new evidence by 14 February 2023. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Tesco asked for Mr Rs income, employment status and residential status. It
estimated his living costs using data from the Office for National Statistics. It carried out a
credit check to understand his existing credit commitments and credit history. Based on
these checks Tesco approved Mr Rs application and concluded a limit of £2,400 would be
affordable for Mr R.
I think these checks were proportionate. I have taken into account the type and value of the
lending and what the credit checks showed. I have considered that a sustainable monthly
repayment of this credit would be £120, and thought about this relative to Mr Rs income. I
also think Tesco made a fair lending decision based on the results of the checks. Ill explain
why.
When he applied Mr R declared a gross annual income of £18,500, said he was in full time
employment and living with his parents. Tesco calculated his non-discretionary outgoings
would be £917 (including the cost of this credit). It could see from the credit check he had a
very low level of debt  just £114  and three active accounts. There was no adverse data
on his file and no evidence of financial stress such as persistent reliance on an overdraft or
payday lending. There were no searches for other credit in the last six months, and no use of
credit for cash advances. So I think it was reasonable for Tesco to conclude the credit was
affordable, and would not be harmful to Mr R. In these circumstances, I dont think it would
have been proportionate for Tesco to have carried out a fuller financial review.
It follows I do not currently think Tesco was wrong to give the card to Mr R.
Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr R says Tesco should not have authorised so many money transfers. But all of Mr Rs
transfers were within his credit limit. So each money transfer was making use of credit for
which Mr R had already been approved, rather than offering him an additional level of credit.
And there was no way for Tesco to have been aware that he was using the money
transfers for gambling.
I can see why he feels the bank ought to have intervened, but at this stage it was unaware of
his addiction. As part of thinking about this, Im mindful that finance providers dont need to
ask what a money transfer is for and even if they did, they are not necessarily aware of what
the money is then actually used for, which might turn out to be something else.
I can see from the banks contact records that Mr R2 called Tesco on 26 July 2022 once he
became aware of how Mr R was using the account. At this point Tesco says it suspended
the credit facility. This is what I would expect. It subsequently offered two options  an
interest freeze for six months if Mr R could make the contractual repayment, or an interest
free payment plan if he cannot make the minimum payments. So I find Tesco responded
fairly, and with forbearance, once aware of Mr Rs circumstances. I agree with its position
that if Mr R goes onto an arrangement to pay this would need to be reported to the agencies,
similarly if the account defaults this will need to be recorded.
I can see that this has been very distressing for Mr R and his family, and I anticipate they will
be very disappointed by my findings, but I have to reach my conclusion based on the
available evidence and for the reasons set out above I do not find Tesco has acted in error. I
hope Mr R and his family have found the right help to support them.
Neither Mr R nor his representative sent in any comments or new information. Tesco replied 
saying it nothing to add and found the provisional decision to be fair and reasonable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I 
have followed it here.
As neither party submitted any new information or additional evidence I have no reason to 
change the findings or the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I have found no failings on the part of Tesco.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman