DRN-2239558
The complaint
Mr M complained that Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr M took out two H&T loans. 
Heres a table showing more information:
Loan taken Amount Loan paid Loan Term Monthly 
repayment
08/08/2017 £750.00 19/04/2018 9 Months £139.36
19/04/2018 £639.26 10/10/2018 6 Months £178.45
Mr M mainly complained that H&T failed to carry out proper checks before lending to him. He 
said that had it done so, H&T shouldve seen that the loans it provided werent affordable for 
him.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and H&T told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ms circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
H&T to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr M had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from H&T shouldve alerted H&T to 
think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In summary, Mr M felt H&T shouldve taken into account information that 
wouldve been on his credit file and bank statements showing that the lending wasnt 
sustainably affordable. Mr M believed H&T shouldnt have provided these loans to him. 
He says hes had other similar complaints upheld and he doesnt think that our 
adjudicator has properly understood his complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
H&T provided Mr M with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So H&T needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
H&T was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told so far, I agree with what 
the adjudicator has said about loan 1. But Im planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint about 
loan 2.
Heres why I say this.
H&T says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after carrying out appropriate checks before 
approving his loan applications and it could see no evidence that the checks carried out 
were insufficient. 
H&T told us that, although Mr M had asked for a bigger loan when he applied for loan 1, it 
took into account the information it had gathered about his financial situation before 
approving the loan of £750. H&T feels this shows it took a responsible approach to lending. 
H&T relied on information Mr M provided about his monthly income and expenditure as well 
as information obtained from credit reference agencies. It says the information it had about 
Mr M showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become difficult for him - and in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think H&T was wrong to lend Mr M loan 1. As this was his first loan with H&T, at this 
early stage, Mr M didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted H&T to 
any underlying money problems. 
Given that Mr M arranged to repay the loan over 9 months Ive thought carefully about 
whether H&T shouldve taken steps to check the information Mr M declared about his 
finances. But I dont think loan amount or the monthly repayments looked likely to be hard for 
Mr M to afford, given his declared income and expenditure. And the information H&T had 
gathered suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the other information 
H&T had recorded, which meant that H&T shouldve taken steps to check the information 
Mr M had declared. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr M took out the second loan at the same time he paid loan 1. 
It looks like he mightve used some of loan 2 to make his final repayment on loan 1 (given 
the amount he borrowed was £639.26 and Mr Ms last payment for loan 1 was £139.26 and 
is shown on the statements as being in cash.) But more importantly, looking at the credit information H&T recorded when Mr M applied for 
his second loan, H&T could see that he had a significant number of active credit accounts 
and the number had gone up since his first loan application  and most had been opened 
within the previous 6 months. So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that 
H&T shouldve realised that Mr Ms borrowing record painted a picture of someone who 
might be struggling with debt. I think this shouldve alerted H&T to the need to question Mr M 
more closely about the extent of his borrowing elsewhere.  
Having seen a copy of Mr Ms credit file, I think its likely that if H&T had asked Mr M more 
in-depth questions about his other borrowing it wouldve found out that when he asked H&T 
for loan 2, he already had at least four other short-term high cost loans from other providers 
of this sort of credit.  
H&T shouldve realised that despite what Mr M had told H&T about his finances, he was 
having serious problems managing his money and it wasnt likely Mr M would be able 
sustainably to repay loan 2. 
So H&T shouldnt have provided this loan to him.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M has said hes happy to accept my provisional decision. Hes mentioned his concerns 
about short term loan lending practices. Hes also said hes had other complaints about short 
term loans upheld. 
H&T says (Im summarising here from a couple of emails it sent us) that the existence alone 
of other loans at the time it was agreed wouldnt automatically mean loan 2 shouldve been 
declined. And that if there is no default/payment pause then affordability is the criterion the 
lender should be measured against.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As were not the regulator, short term loan lending practices arent something we have any 
direct control over. And whilst I've noted what Mr M says about other complaints that have 
been upheld, each case is looked at on its own merits and in light of the very specific and 
particular circumstances that apply in each instance. So, what hes said about his other 
complaints doesnt affect my view about this complaint.
I've taken carefully into account everything H&T has said in response to my provisional 
decision. H&T hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about 
this case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the 
outcome. I appreciate that H&T takes a different view to me. I hope that setting things out as 
Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. Putting things right
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information H&T has recorded on Mr Ms credit file for loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Harvey & Thompson Limited to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman