DRN-4089596
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money its 
director lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ts director, Mr A, made some payments from Ts business banking account to what he 
believed to be a legitimate investment company. Unbeknown to Mr A at the time, he was 
actually dealing with fraudsters.
Between June and August 2020, Mr A sent a number of payments to the fraudsters from Ts 
business account. But when Mr A was later unable to get in touch with the fraudsters or 
withdraw any of his funds, he realised hed been scammed, and he contacted Santander.
Santander declined to offer Mr A a refund of the payments that left Ts business account. Mr 
A complained and the matter was referred to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but they didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. They said they werent persuaded that T had suffered a loss in these 
circumstances. Mr A, on behalf of T, disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a 
decision. So, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is solely in relation to the payments that left Ts business account. In these 
circumstances, T is the eligible complainant. As the Director, Mr A can represent T, but 
personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from T.
It isnt in dispute that Mr A authorised the payments from Ts business account that went to 
the fraudsters. So, the starting position here is that Santander ought to have followed the 
instructions it was provided with and processed the payments.
During the course of our investigation, Mr A said the payments made to the fraudsters from 
TNs business account where in relation to personal investments. And he said the company 
owed him money. However, Mr A later said the payments were in relation to investments 
being made of behalf of T. 
In light of the conflicting information provided, our Investigator asked Mr A if he could provide 
any evidence that could show that the investments were being made on behalf of T  such 
as evidence of conversations with the company Accountant showing the funds were being 
used to raise capital for business purposes. Mr A didnt provide any further information and 
he stressed that the funds being paid from Ts business account, rather than his personal 
account, was enough to show that the investments were being made on behalf of T and 
were not being made for personal gain.  
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr A has told us and based on everything Ive seen; 
Im persuaded that its more likely than not that the money being paid from Ts account was 
for a personal investment being made by Mr A. 
I say this because Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate or suggest that the 
investment was being made by T in its own capacity. And he himself initially told us that this 
was a personal investment and T owed him money. It was only later on, after the complaint 
had not been upheld, that Mr A said the payments related to investments on behalf of T. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that, on balance, the spending on TNs account was for the 
purposes of Mr As own personal gain, rather than for any business-related activity.
Having been satisfied of the above, broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in 
relation to the debt created by the spending on Ts account. Firstly, that this was, in effect, 
TN lending money to Mr A personally. If Mr A had borrowed money in this way from T for 
personal gain, then he would be liable to repay that debt to the company. And in this 
situation T cant fairly be considered to have suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by 
Mr A as the debtor in these circumstances.
The second potential scenario is that by spending on Ts account in this way, T was 
discharging some debt owed to Mr A, be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in 
this situation, again, T hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr A was 
provided with what he was owed which he sent to the scammers directly from Ts business 
account.
Santander do have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But setting all those 
obligations aside, I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to tell Santander it 
needs to do more. Whichever approach I take to the spending on Ts account, Im not 
persuaded that T itself has suffered a loss. So even if I were to conclude that there had been 
a clear and obvious failing by Santander in its handling of matters, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask it to do more. This is because any failures that might have occurred 
didnt cause a loss to T. As such, Im not intending to direct Santander to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman