DRN-3452391
The complaint
Mr W complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (London & Colonial) caused delays 
to the transfer of his self invested personal pension (SIPP) to a new provider.  He says these 
delays caused him a financial loss as well as the opportunity to invest into his new funds 
earlier. He is also unhappy about the lack of response to his complaint. 
What happened
Mr W had held a SIPP with London & Colonial since 2010. Following the receipt of 
compensation from a previous complaint about his SIPP he decided to transfer the funds to 
a new provider and asked his adviser to make an application. He wanted the cash held in 
the SIPP to be transferred straight away and then for the remaining assets to be sold and 
then transferred as cash.
This request was made by Mr Ws adviser on 5 March 2020. The electronic transfer system 
used by providers in these cases (Origo) showed the transfer was requested on 
13 March 2020. Mr W says he didnt receive any notification that the request had been 
received. Neither the new provider nor Mr Ws adviser had been able to confirm progression 
of Mr Ws application, so he contacted London & Colonial on 7 May 2020 to find out the 
current position of the transfer. 
On 14 May 2020 Mr W received a response and was told the available cash would be 
transferred immediately and that a communication is being issued to each of the above 
investment providers requesting the liquidation of these remaining assets and return of the 
proceeds to the scheme bank account.
Cash from the sale of further assets was received on 21 and 26 May and 1 June 2020. This 
amount of £88,089.73 was transferred to the new provider on 5 June 2020. The remaining 
two assets were sold, and proceeds received on 12 June and 21 July 2020. This final 
amount of £9,854.88 was then transferred to the new provider on 30 July 2020. 
Mr W had first complained to London & Colonial on 4 May 2020 about the poor service he 
thought hed received. But on 24 July 2020, when the final transfer was about to be made, 
Mr W asked London & Colonial to update him on the calculation it said it would carry out to 
see if hed been disadvantaged as a result of the delay in liquidating his investments. 
London & Colonial didnt respond to Mr Ws complaint, so he brought it to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. 
He said Mr Ws complaint should be upheld because there was no reasonable explanation 
for why the assets or cash couldnt have been transferred earlier. He noted that when Mr W 
chased up his initial transfer request around two months later only one of the assets had 
been sold. He said London & Colonial should calculate the position of Mr Ws SIPP as if it 
had been transferred to the new provider within the same funds but by 20 March 2020.
Mr W accepted the investigators findings, but London & Colonial, who had previously 
provided us with information about a different complaint of Mr Ws, failed to respond to our 
requests  so the complaint was referred to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld but set out a different 
redress method than the investigator. I gave the following reasons in support of my findings:
There was no evidence to show that the transfer process began when it was input on 
the electronic transfer system. 
There was nothing to show that, following the request being made, London & 
Colonial tried to sell the underlying investments within Mr Ws SIPP or attempted to 
transfer the cash sum that Mr W had asked to be transferred straight away. 
Without any plausible explanation for this delay I thought London & Colonial was 
responsible. When Mr W chased up the transfer in May 2020, London & Colonial 
confirmed it had caused the delay and would be determining the extent of any 
financial loss that Mr W had suffered. 
But London & Colonials usual policy wasnt to transfer individual tranches of cash  
so I had to consider whether it would be reasonable for me to say that it should have 
done that in this case  as I thought it had probably made the later individual 
transfers simply because of its poor service to Mr W.
As a result I thought London & Colonial should carry out a calculation to work out the 
position Mr W would now be in had the transfer progressed on 14 March 2020, the 
day after the transfer request was made, but based on the actual progress that was 
made with the transfer after 14 May 2020. This was the date that London & Colonial 
transferred Mr Ws cash and started to receive the proceeds of some of his 
disinvested assets.   
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W broadly accepted the provisional decision but said that he believed if he hadnt chased 
up London & Colonial the transfer wouldnt have completed when it did. He didnt think 
London & Colonial had provided a good service and had failed to manage his SIPP.
London & Colonial said that, on this occasion it recognised that Mr Ws transfer wasnt 
carried out in a timely manner. It agreed the complaint should be upheld and that it would 
carry out a loss calculation to establish the extent of any financial loss. It also confirmed it 
had already waived the fees that were due for competing the transfer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, as both parties broadly agreed with my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings. 
What did happen?
Ive seen a screenshot of the Origo electronic transfer system which showed that Mr Ws 
advisers request that his SIPP be transferred from London & Colonial was accepted on 
16 March 2020. No acknowledgement of this request was received, and the adviser chased up London & 
Colonial for a progress report on 6,15 and 20 April 2020. Mr W himself chased up matters in 
May 2020, and following a review of the transfer, London & Colonial said it would be 
transferring the available cash within the SIPP immediately and would send a 
communication to each of the above investment providers requesting the liquidation of 
these remaining assets and return of the proceeds to the scheme bank account.
Following this communication cash from various sales of assets was received during 
May 2020 and transferred to the new provider. The remaining assets were encashed during 
June and July 2020 and the final proceeds were transferred on 30 July 2020.
But London & Colonial hasnt provided any justification for the failure to transfer the cash that 
was in the SIPP when instructed to do so  or to begin selling the other remaining assets 
before Mr W contacted it on 14 May 2020. And it has also subsequently told us that it 
accepts it didnt progress the transfer in a timely manner and will undertake a redress 
calculation in order to determine the potential financial loss Mr W may have suffered.
What I think should have happened?
So Ive looked at what should have happened here.  I think that, although London & Colonial 
had a policy to only transfer cash in one amount rather than using multiple transfers, it 
should have transferred the cash sum of £146,584.49 that was held in Mr WS SIPP upon 
receiving the transfer request.  I know I said this should have been the day after the initial 
request in my provisional decision, but Ive now seen that wasnt a working day  so I think 
the initial transfer of cash should have happened on 16 March 2020.
The emails that were exchanged between Mr W and London & Colonial around 14 May 2020 
made it clear that London & Colonial agreed that we have caused a significant delay and 
that we will be collating the sales information to determine the extent of any loss with a view 
to putting this right as previously confirmed to you in both of my earlier emails today. This 
has also been confirmed in London & Colonials response to my provisional decision. So I 
have to look at the effect that London & Colonials actions after 14 May 2020 had on the 
overall transfer, as I think this was the date that work on the transfer began in earnest. I have 
taken into account that Mr W has been consistent in his view that the individual transfers of 
cash in June and July 2020 only happened because of the pressure he applied to London & 
Colonial to progress matters.
But London & Colonial also said in its email that, It isn't our usual process to send multiple 
payments. We send the sale requests off all at the same time, and process the funds once 
all liquidations have been completed into the bank account. We would usually wait for all 
cash to be in your SIPP bank account. Leave with me and Ill see what I can do in
this instance. So, Im satisfied that it wouldnt normally have transferred the individual sales 
in this case, I think it changed its policy simply because it had provided Mr W with such poor 
service and this was a way it could try to improve that service. 
So, while I can understand Mr Ws frustration at having to spend time chasing up each sale, I 
think that on 14 May 2020 London & Colonial requested the sales of the remaining 
investments and would normally have banked the cash from those sales and transferred it 
at the end of the process. 
Although Mr W may have benefitted from London & Colonials actions to make up for its poor 
service by transferring each sale shortly after Mr W chased it up, I dont think this would 
have been the situation if London & Colonial hadnt caused any delays  and my purpose 
here is to put Mr W as close to the position he would now be in had the delay not occurred. 
Ive concluded that the additional benefit Mr W did receive from each sale being transferred soon after the cash was released is broadly balanced out by the inconvenience of him 
having to continually chase up London & Colonial.  
So I dont think any adjustments need to be made for the process after 14 May 2020 as I 
think this unfolded within the normal timescale of what I would have expected for such sales 
and transfers. London & Colonial has given reasonable explanations for any delays which 
occurred here  and I dont think it can be held responsible for the delays which principally 
were caused by other factors outside of its control.  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the transfer of his SIPP hadnt been delayed.
What must London & Colonial do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, London & Colonial must:
Compare the actual current value of Mr W's SIPP against a notional value, as at the 
date of this decision, which assumes the transfer had progressed along the same 
timeline as it did following 14 May 2020, but if it had begun on 16 March 2020  the 
next working day after the Origo request was received.. So the position needs to be 
calculated if the transfer had been completed two months earlier, on 30 May 2020, 
but with each individual transaction included at the same point in the notional timeline 
as it occurred within the actual timeline  effectively two months earlier on each 
occasion.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
London & Colonial should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If London & Colonial is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr W would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr W £100 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.Additional interest of 8% simple a year is to be added from the date of this final decision to 
the date of settlement if settlement isnt made within 28 days of London & Colonial being 
notified of Mr Ws acceptance of that decision
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If London & Colonial deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. London & Colonial should 
give Mr W a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that London & Colonial Services Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
London & Colonial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a 
clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman