DRN-2757676
The complaint
Miss P complained about Nationwide Building Society. She said shed deposited £300 into a 
cash machine, but Nationwide only credited her with £200. Nationwide also mistakenly 
credited her account with another customers £210, and then debited the other customers 
£210 without asking her permission.
Miss P also complained that Nationwide hadnt told her about the disputed deposit until she 
received a letter seven days later, and said she was unhappy with the branch managers 
attitude.
What happened
On 10 July 2020, Miss P used a cash machine at a Nationwide branch to pay money into her 
account. She said she put £300 in an envelope, keyed in the amount, and the machine gave 
her a receipt for £300.
When Nationwide opened the envelope later that day, two of its staff counted the cash and 
found there was £200 in it, not £300. Nationwide rang Miss P the same day, and left an 
answerphone message asking Miss P to ring. Miss P didnt return the call and Nationwide 
rang again on 15th. Miss P later said shed had two missed calls, but as they were from an 
0800 number, shed thought they were a scam, so she hadnt phoned back. Nationwide 
wrote to Miss P telling her there had only been £200 not £300 in the envelope. 
Miss P received this letter on 17 July and rang Nationwide about it. Shed also noticed online 
that as well as the disputed cash credit, there was an unexplained credit for £210. In the 
phone call, the branch manager said that the £210 credit was another customers money, 
which had been credited to Miss Ps account by mistake. 
Miss P complained to Nationwide. She said she was sure shed put £300 in the cash deposit 
envelope. A relative had been with her when shed counted the money out. She asked the 
branch to check CCTV. Miss P said she was concerned that someone elses money had 
been paid into her account. She said it was obvious the branch was operating with limited 
staff, and as a result mistakes were being made.
Miss P also said the manager hadnt accepted her account of events and hadnt apologised. 
She said hed been more concerned about whether procedures had been followed.
In its final response to Miss Ps complaint, Nationwide said the envelope put into the cash 
machine had been sealed and showed no signs of tampering. It was machine-stamped 
which showed the time and reference number. It said the money had been checked by two 
members of staff.
Nationwide also said that there was no CCTV situated in a place which would show Miss Ps 
cash machine transaction. But it paid Miss P a total of £150 compensation for its error in 
crediting another customers money to her account.
Miss P wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. He explained that when cash is put into an 
envelope which is then put into the machine, its not counted by the machine. Its counted 
later by two members of staff, and Nationwide had provided a copy of the envelope with 
these signatures. The investigator also said the £210 deposit of someone elses money had 
happened because the cashier hadnt exited Miss Ps account on the system, so the money 
had mistakenly been credited to Miss Ps account. The investigator said he appreciated Miss 
P had been distressed and frustrated at having this money debited, but Nationwide had had 
the right to do so.
The investigator also considered Miss Ps complaint about the branch manager. Branch calls 
arent recorded, so hed looked at notes of Miss Ps calls, and what actions Nationwide had 
taken. He didnt consider the branch managers service had been less than wed expect in 
these situations. And he said that the £150 for crediting another customers money to Miss 
Ps account was fair and reasonable.
Miss P wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision. She said the investigators 
view implied that shed dishonestly claimed shed deposited £300, and that wasnt the case. 
She didnt believe the cash machine hadnt been able to count the cash. She said it was her 
word against Nationwides, and the investigator had been heavily biased towards 
Nationwides procedures. She said the investigator could have spoken to the relative whod 
seen her count the money, and could also have checked her statements, which showed that 
shed previously made cash deposits to her account.
Miss P said she hadnt had an issue with the amount of compensation for Nationwides 
crediting someone elses money to her account, which she thought  was fair. She said her 
concern was about the amount shed deposited, and Nationwides refusal to acknowledge its 
error about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How much Miss P paid in
Theres no CCTV showing the cash machine which Miss P used. In practice, even if there is 
a nearby CCTV, it very rarely shows whats in dispute here, ie the exact number and 
denominations of notes which a customer places into the envelope, seals and puts into the 
cash machine. As theres no CCTV to show for certain what happened, I take my decision 
on the basis of what I think is most likely to have happened.
Miss P wanted this service to ask her relative about how much Miss P counted and sealed in 
the envelope. But Miss P has been very clear about what she said she did, and I dont 
consider this would add to Miss Ps evidence.
Money placed into a sealed envelope by a customer, and then put into a cash machine, cant 
be counted by the machine. The receipt which the machine issues is just whatever is keyed 
in by the customer. It isnt until the sealed envelope is opened by two branch employees that 
the cash is counted, and the envelope is signed. I accept that this procedure was carried out 
with the money Miss P paid in, with two employees checking and signing to say what they 
found in the envelope. In addition, two other Nationwide employees checked the machine, to see whether there 
were any loose notes stuck inside. I think it was always going to be unlikely that this was the 
answer, because Miss Ps money was sealed inside the envelope she put into the machine. 
But it was still sensible to check. And it means that four different people were involved with 
the checks on how much Miss P deposited and whether the money might have been lost 
somehow in the machine.
Miss P also asked this service to look at her statements, which showed that shed made 
several cash deposits and no withdrawals. I have looked at her statements. I can see that, 
for example, she paid in £750 in February 2020, £200 in March 2020, and £650 in April 
2020. But I cant see that this makes it more likely that it was £300 rather than £200 which 
she paid into the cash machine in July.
Given that the money paid in was checked by more than one person, I find that its more 
likely than not that there was £200 in the envelope Miss P deposited, not £300. 
Other issues
Miss P has said that her concern is about the amount deposited and the fact Nationwide 
didnt accept what shed said about this. Ive found that its more likely than not that Miss P 
deposited £200 not £300. For completeness, however, Ive also considered her original 
points of complaint to Nationwide and this service.
Miss P complained that she didnt hear about the dispute until she received a letter on 17 
July. However, Miss P said that she did receive two phone calls on her mobile, but as they 
were from 0800 numbers she decided they were spam. She said Nationwide should have 
phoned her landline or emailed her. But the same security concerns would apply to a 
landline as to a mobile, and email isnt secure. Security is obviously vital, and its always 
wise to be cautious. But Miss P could have looked up a genuine Nationwide number and 
used that to phone back. So I dont consider Nationwide was at fault for the fact Miss P didnt 
hear about the dispute until she received its letter.
Nationwide made an error when it credited Miss Ps account with someone elses £210. Miss 
P is unhappy that Nationwide didnt ask her permission before it debited that money from her 
account on 21 July. But in these circumstances where Nationwide had made a mistake in 
crediting someone elses money to Miss Ps account, Nationwide didnt have to ask Miss Ps 
permission to debit it, because it wasnt her money. Miss P has said shes satisfied with the 
£150 compensation. For the avoidance of doubt, I consider £150 is more than fair.
Miss P is also unhappy about her experience when she visited the branch about her 
complaint. Clearly I wasnt there, so I cant say for certain what was said, or the tone which 
was used by both sides. It would have been a difficult conversation, because Miss P was 
sure shed paid in £300, and the branch manager didnt accept this, telling Miss P about the 
procedures whereby two separate employees verify cash deposits. Miss P hasnt alleged 
any particular rudeness or inappropriate behaviour on that occasion, so I conclude that her 
unhappiness was about the outcome rather than the tone. Ive discussed the outcome 
above. Miss P also complained about the lack of staff, but July 2020 was during the covid 
crisis, and I think it was to be expected that service might not be normal.
Finally, Miss P  told us she wanted Nationwide to review current practice and change its 
procedures so similar issues dont happen again. The procedures of financial organisations 
arent for this service, but for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman