DRN-3031414
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1997. Miss S says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Miss Ss circumstances at the time of the sale, and the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, havent been disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Miss S was employed at the time as a teacher, was entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay 
and didnt have anything else, like savings, to help pay her card if she couldnt work. Shes 
told us of health issues she had in the year of the sale. We asked for but didnt receive more 
about these, and I havent enough to say if they started before or after the sale, but, from 
what Miss S has told us, she was treated for them but hadnt been kept off work by them.
AXA has told us Miss S paid just over £21 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ss representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ss 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Miss S says the PPI was just included with her card. I give her recollections some weight 
- but I also take into account that she set these out for us around 20 years after the sale, 
so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt recall all the details. Also, her card application 
form had a Payment & Purchase Protection section for the PPI, with a box to tick if she 
wanted the cover. This tends to suggest its likely Miss S wouldve been made aware the 
cover was optional  with cover added only if she wanted it. Also, nothing on the form 
said the PPI had to be taken. On Miss Ss form, which she signed to take the card, the 
box for PPI appears to be ticked - and I think Miss S would have known that if she didnt 
want the cover, the box for it shouldnt be ticked. With all this in mind, I think it more likely 
AXA made it clear Miss S didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it  although 
it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt recall this now. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and the application form said the PPI 
was cover for the card repayments in case of sickness, accident and unemployment - so 
it looks to me like Miss S wanted this type of cover. She was eligible for it and, although 
she had some work benefits, from what I have I think it likely the policy benefit couldve 
still been useful for her if unemployment or disability stopped her working for a longer 
time. Also, Miss S has told us she was financially stretched, so it doesnt look like she 
couldve easily absorbed a loss of income in that situation.
Miss S couldnt claim for work absences if due to any medical condition she knew about 
at the start  and the policy limited payments for back pain in some circumstances and 
had more onerous evidential requirements for it in other situations. But the health issues 
Miss S has told us about hadnt kept her off work. With all this in mind, based on what I 
have and given what Miss S could still claim for, on balance I dont think her decision to 
take the cover wouldve changed if shed been told more about how the terms would 
affect her ability to claim for these health issues. And she hasnt told us of having had 
any other health issues the policy mightve made it hard for her to claim for. Also, nothing 
about Miss Ss occupation or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim.
In light of all Ive said above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss S. I also 
think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to it without a broad idea of the cost. So, bearing in 
mind the benefit it could pay, and having thought carefully about all Miss S has told us 
about her circumstances and other means, Im not persuaded being told more about the 
cost wouldve changed her decision to take the cover. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think Miss S wouldve declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy also contained limitations on claims relating to mental health conditions, 
in light of Miss Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her  and I think she wouldve still 
thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Miss S wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Miss Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Miss S her patience and courtesy throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman