DRN-3946890
The complaint
Mr J complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) for its system not allowing 
him to reject an inward payment to his account. He wants to have more immediate control 
over his account.
What happened
Mr J held a current account with NatWest. 
Separately, Mr J had a dispute with a third-party business about a garage door he had 
purchased. Damage had been caused to his property while the garage door was being fitted, 
and the door was not fit for purpose. 
The business appears to have rejected responsibility for the damage but agreed to refund 
the cost of the garage door. 
Mr J did not want to accept the refund, as he felt that this made the situation appear resolved 
when instead there was still a significant outstanding issue of the damage caused. 
Mr J contacted NatWest and asked if he could block the payment into his account. He was 
told that this was not possible and was not a service that NatWest offered. Mr J then wanted 
to close his account so that any inward payment would bounce. The agent told Mr J that he 
could go through the process of account closure, but that this would take the usual amount 
of time, and so would not stop the payment going into his account. 
The business refunded the price of the purchase directly into Mr Js current account, using 
the details he had provided earlier. This arrived in his account in mid-June 2022. 
Mr J complained to NatWest. He felt that the lack of control he had over his account and 
payments into it had prejudiced his dispute with the third-party business. 
NatWest sent Mr J its final response a few days later. NatWest acknowledged Mr Js view 
but did not uphold his complaint as it stated that NatWest had acted in line with its terms and 
processes, and had advised him correctly. 
Mr J remained unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint and did not uphold the complaint. They found 
that there was no evidence that NatWest had done anything wrong. 
Mr J did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling in this matter. He clearly feels frustrated that he was 
unable to prevent the refund being made and he feels that this has changed his options in 
terms of taking his dispute with the third-party business further. 
I understand that feeling, but I agree with my colleagues view that this is not a failing on the 
part of NatWest in this situation. 
Our role is to look at individual situations and to decide if the business has acted fairly, and 
in line with its usual processes. If we consider that it hasnt then we can direct that it takes 
action to put matters right, but we cannot dictate services that businesses should offer, or 
how they should run their business. 
In this case, NatWest has been clear throughout that it does not offer the functionality to 
prevent an inward payment to an account, and it does not appear that this is a function 
available elsewhere in the banking system. 
NatWest is not obliged to offer every service which its customers may want, and indeed it 
may be unable to do so. We would not consider that a failure of service. 
In this case, on the evidence I have available, it appears that NatWest was clear with Mr J 
about what services and facilities his account offered, and it correctly advised him that 
closure of an account would take time (as detailed in the account terms) and would not 
achieve the purpose he wanted. 
I appreciate that Mr J did not want the refund to be credited to him at that time, but I cannot 
say that it was NatWests fault that the refund was made. 
Consequently, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr J, I have not seen evidence 
of NatWest doing anything wrong and so I do not uphold Mr Js complaint. I do not ask 
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
I wish Mr J well in resolving his dispute satisfactorily going forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and I do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman