DRN-2784181
The complaint
Mr R complains Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) failed to stop a pension transfer as 
it said it would. He says hes suffered financial loss as a result. 
What happened
Mr R (through his financial adviser) instructed Aegon to transfer the value of two pension 
funds he held with the business. But the value of the funds fell, and Mr R wanted to stop the 
transfers. Aegon told Mr Rs adviser the transfers could be paused, but this wasnt the case. 
One of the transfers was stopped but the other wasnt. The transfer that went ahead meant 
Mr Rs fund was disinvested at a price he wasnt happy with. He wanted to reverse the 
transfer, but Aegon was only willing to do so based on current day prices.
Aegon accepted it shouldve checked whether the transfers could be paused when Mr Rs 
adviser called. It paid £500 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Aegon later clarified that even if its advisers had made the correct enquiries, the transfers 
couldnt have been stopped. It said it wasnt the businesss policy to cancel transfers on 
request, but in some cases it may exercise discretion to do so. Aegon said the product type 
for one of Mr Rs pensions gave the business more scope to exercise its discretion, and this 
was why one of the transfers was cancelled. 
But the transfer process for the other pension was automated, which was why it couldnt 
have been stopped.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that even 
if Aegon had given Mr Rs adviser correct information, this wouldnt have stopped the 
transfers from going ahead. He considered the compensation paid by Aegon was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He thought it was unfair that Aegon 
was at fault, but wasnt required to pay compensation for the financial loss Mr R considered 
hed suffered. Mr R maintained that Aegon had told his adviser the transfers could be 
cancelled within a certain timeframe, and hed exercised his right to do so. As such, Mr R 
considered Aegon should put him into the position he wouldve been in if both transfers had 
been cancelled.
Mr R asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R feels strongly about how he considers Aegon should resolve this matter, 
and that hes put time and effort into his complaint. I can also see there has been extensive 
correspondence between Mr R and this service since the investigator first issued his view, 
and that a number of issues have been raised.
Id like to assure Mr R that Ive read and considered all of his submissions, even if I dont 
refer to each one specifically in this final decision. Ive identified what I consider to be the 
main aspects of Mr Rs complaint, and my findings in respect of those issues are set out 
below.
Mr R suggests he initiated the transfer because he and/or his adviser had been told by 
Aegon that it could be paused if the price fell to a certain amount. But I havent seen or 
heard anything to suggest that Aegon said anything about being able to pause the transfer 
before Mr R gave his instructions.
Mr R has said throughout the complaint that Aegon told his adviser the transfers could be 
stopped if instructions were given by a certain deadline. Mr R says he withdrew his 
instructions within that deadline, and that Aegon should honour what it said it would do.
Ive listened to all of the calls between Mr R and his adviser, and the adviser and Aegon. 
From what Ive heard, Im not persuaded that Aegon said the transfers could be paused 
provided instructions were received by a specific deadline. Instead, when Mr Rs adviser 
called on 28 February to check whether the disinvestments had started, Aegon said they 
were due to take place on 2 March 2020, based on prices at the close of business on 28 
February.
When the adviser spoke to Mr R later that day, Mr R asked whether it was possible to delay 
the transfer decision until 2 March 2020. The adviser said it would be too late by that point. 
So I can see how that might have given the impression there was a deadline for stopping the 
transfers.  
But I dont think that was the case. Instead, Aegon said disinvestment would be based on 
prices at close of business on 28 February, which was why it wasnt possible to delay the 
decision until 2 March.
So Im not persuaded there was any deadline that meant Aegon was obliged to act on Mr 
Rs instructions. 
But while that may be the case, its not in dispute that Aegon suggested to Mr Rs adviser 
that both transfers could be paused. So I can understand why Mr R might consider Aegon 
should put things right by standing by what it said it would do.
But as the investigator has explained, where a business has given information thats wrong, 
our approach does not require the business to act in line with that information. Instead, we 
aim to put the customer into the position he wouldve been in if the mistake by the business 
hadnt been made.
In this case, Aegon should have told Mr Rs adviser the automated pension transfer couldnt 
be stopped. It shouldve also told him that it was unlikely the other transfer could be stopped 
either, but that the business had discretion to cancel it.
If this had been the case, the automated pension transfer would have gone ahead anyway. 
And cancellation of the other transfer wouldve always been at Aegons discretion.
So Im satisfied that Mr R is in the position he wouldve been in if the mistake by Aegon 
hadnt been made. Which means it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Aegon to 
compensate Mr R on the basis he is seeking.But I accept that Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the incorrect 
information his adviser was given. When I take account of awards by this service in 
complaints of a similar nature, Im satisfied that the amount Aegon has paid is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Aegon to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman