DRN-1873808
The complaint
Miss H complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund an unsuccessful cash machine 
withdrawal. She says the machine retained her card and didnt dispense the cash.
What happened
Miss H has explained that in November 2018 she went to a cash machine inside a branch to 
withdraw £400. The cash machine she used was of a different bank to her own - who Ill 
refer to as 'bank S'. Miss H says that the machine took her card and did not dispense any 
cash. She says before leaving the branch, she informed the duty manager  who told her to 
contact her own bank.
Miss H visited her local TSB branch to report the matter and order a new card. As the money 
had been debited from her account, a cash machine dispute claim was raised.
TSB investigated what had happened with the cash machine operator  bank S. In the 
meantime, it applied a temporary credit to Miss Hs account of the disputed amount. Bank S 
said that the withdrawal had been processed correctly and that the cash had been correctly 
dispensed by its cash machine. TSB rejected Miss Hs claim and re-debited her account. 
This caused her account to become overdrawn. Miss H says this was a lot of money to her 
and removal of the funds put her into financial difficulties; she was unable to pay rent, bills, 
putting her in arrears, and she struggled for money to buy food. Miss H complained, first to 
TSB  who didnt uphold her complaint, and then to this service.
Our investigator also thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because the evidence 
showed that the same card that Miss H claims was retained by bank Ss cash machine was 
used just over a week later at another cash machine that Miss H uses regularly, at a 
supermarket, near her home. He concluded that overall looking at all the evidence, he thinks 
its more likely than not that the cash was dispensed correctly, and that Miss H received it. 
Whilst he sympathised with the financial situation Miss H found herself in, he didnt think 
TSB could be held liable for this.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be taken further. 
She wants a full investigation, has asked this service to review CCTV footage from the other 
bank and wants her £400 to be returned to her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, Ive 
reached broadly the same view as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Miss H doesnt dispute that she attempted to withdraw £400 from bank Ss cash machine. 
Her complaint is that she didnt receive the money. As Ive specified the cash machine 
wasnt operated by TSB, so it needed to rely to a large extent on the information provided by 
bank S. But to be clear for Miss H, I cant consider the actions taken by bank S - the decision I need to make is whether TSB, based on the information available, were correct in re-
debiting £400 from her account.
Unfortunately, TSB has not been able to provide this service with the evidence from bank S 
as it's no longer available, the system it, along with most other banks use to raise cash 
machine disputes only retain information for a 12-month period. So, its worth noting that 
TSB only have limited records available and some detail is lacking. So, where the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.     
I know Miss H is adamant her card was retained by bank Ss machine, and no cash was 
dispensed. And as far as I can see her case is based on just her testimony. I hope Miss H 
appreciates Im unable to uphold a complaint based solely on her testimony. I have to look at 
all the evidence I have, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case. Having carefully looked at everything, there are 
some factors that lead me to believe that Miss Hs version of events is not totally reliable. I 
say this because;  
Miss Hs account differs from the technical evidence provided by TSB - which I find 
more persuasive. It shows the card Miss H says was retained by bank Ss cash 
machine, had been attempted to be used in another cash machine, at a supermarket, 
near her home a week later.  
I can also see Miss H made a £40 withdrawal at the same cash machine, on the 
same day using her replacement card  which she hasnt disputed.
This places the card Miss H claims to have been retained by bank Ss cash machine 
in the same vicinity as Miss H on the same day  over a week later. I dont think this 
is purely a coincidence and I cant conclude anything other than Miss H was in 
possession of both cards.     
Miss H hasnt provided any further evidence to support her assertions.
 
So, the above brings into disrepute Miss Hs whole testimony and Im not persuaded that her 
version of events is what actually happened.
I know Miss H believes if CCTV evidence had been sought it would be able to confirm 
exactly what happened and wouldve supported her version of events. TSB have said it was 
satisfied from the information it had available to it of its decision to re-debit Miss H account. It 
offered Miss H the opportunity to provide anything further to support her claim and reviewed 
matters a second time. I dont think its unreasonable that TSB didnt request CCTV footage 
as it was satisfied from the evidence it had. In circumstances such as these I also wouldnt 
ordinarily expect TSB to be responsible for gathering CCTV evidence from a cash 
machine they dont own.
I know Miss H would like us to obtain CCTV but given the event being complained about 
happened almost 18 months ago, its not likely this would be available. Additionally, CCTV 
evidence even where available doesnt always help to resolve matters. And for these 
reasons it wouldn't be fair of me to speculate on what it may or may not have shown. I have 
to base my decision on the available evidence.
I also appreciate TSB re-debiting Miss H account left her in a difficult position financially, with 
an unexpectedly low balance just before Christmas, which is a costly period for most 
consumers. But TSB is entitled to remove the temporary credit if it is persuaded Miss H 
received the amount disputed. So, I can't agree its actions were unreasonable. Overall, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that Miss H didnt receive the £400 
withdrawn. I think its more likely than not that the cash was correctly dispensed, and I dont 
believe it would be fair to require TSB to re-credit Miss Hs account.
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss H but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont 
think TSB need to do anymore here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman