DRN-3675187
The complaint
Mr I complains about difficulties accessing and updating his account with National Savings 
and Investments (NS&I). 
What happened
Mr I has an account with NS&I and lives abroad. Mr I has explained that he forgot his 
security details so was unable to update his personal details online including address and 
phone number. As a result, NS&I sent Mr I temporary passwords to access its online facility. 
Mr I explains that despite calling NS&I on numerous occasions and spending a lot of time on 
the phone, the temporary passcodes he received failed to work. That meant Mr I had to call 
NS&I back, wait to speak with someone and repeat the background of his case. Mr I has 
explained the process was expensive due to the costs of calls and time consuming. 
NS&I didnt uphold Mr Is complaint overall. But NS&I sent Mr I a cheque for £30 as a 
gesture of goodwill and paid him a further £40. Mr I referred his complaint to this service and 
it was passed to an investigator. They thought NS&I had dealt with Mr Is complaint fairly. 
During the investigation, NS&I sent another temporary password to Mr I and called him. Mr I 
was able to access his account and update his details. 
Mr I asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr I has spent a lot of time dealing with this situation and that its caused him a 
degree of trouble and upset. Mr Is explained hes incurred calls costs and had to spend time 
speaking with NS&Is agents, often revisiting the same points. I dont doubt how frustrating 
and time consuming the matter has been for Mr I. But Im not persuaded that reflects errors 
or unreasonable behaviour or mistakes from NS&I. Ill explain why. 
NS&Is explained that when customers who live abroad require a temporary password they 
have to be sent in the post. This is a security measure NS&I says isnt something it can 
change. But because of the distance the temporary password had to travel and time taken 
for delivery, Mr Is explained they had expired by the time they were received. I appreciate 
this was inconvenient. But its not something I can say NS&I was responsible for. I think it 
delay reflects the delivery service, not an error by NS&I. 
There were other issues caused by address amendments and forms being sent with 
inconsistent addresses. But I havent seen anything that shows it was errors by NS&I that 
caused it to write to a wrong address. And the information on file shows NS&I contacted Mr I 
to check his details after receiving conflicting information in late December 2021. 
NS&I continued to follow Mr Is investment instructions during the period in question so there 
was no direct loss. Mr Is told us his international call costs were high and that he had to 
spend time on the phone dealing with NS&I. I dont doubt what Mr I has told us. But Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to tell NS&I to cover Mr Is international call costs. And I whilst I 
can see Mr I spent a lot of time on the phone, I think that reflects the additional challenges of 
operating the account from another country and delays receiving correspondence rather 
than errors by NS&I. 
NS&I paid Mr I £40 and sent a cheque for £30 taking the total award to £70. Mr Is asked 
how to pay in his cheque and our investigator offered some guidance on that point. Ive 
reviewed all the available information, including listening to Mr Is calls with our investigator, 
and Im satisfied NS&I dealt with his complaint fairly. As NS&I has already agreed a fair 
settlement, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that National Savings & Investments has agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman