DRN-2118252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ks PPI policy started in March 1993. They recall the sale took place in one of 
the societys branches when they applied for a mortgage. Nationwide cant confirm, but its 
most likely the policy was in Mr Ks sole name. Mrs K has told us she was in full time 
education until June 1993. It gave Mr K accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where there is limited information and where some of the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to reach my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. I know Mr and Mrs K feel where there was no 
definitive evidence the adjudicator showed bias towards the lender. But as an independent 
and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no 
benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. Mr and Mrs K have responded in detail throughout our investigation. I have reviewed 
all their comments carefully. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service I will comment here on the points material to the outcome. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K told us they cant recall any information about the PPI from the sale, any 
questions they asked or indeed why they agreed to take out the insurance. They say they 
trusted the adviser who completed all the mortgage and PPI forms for them to sign. 
Nationwide says taking PPI was one of the conditions of their fixed-rate mortgage, but this 
would have been made clear throughout and if they didnt want PPI they couldve chosen to 
take their mortgage with another lender. Mr and Mrs K says its untrue that the mortgage had 
mandatory PPI, it was only mandatory for 95% mortgages and Nationwide has confirmed 
this to them. But from the evidence I have seen it seems there were a number of Nationwide 
mortgages at this time where PPI was compulsory. Nationwide has supplied records 
showing the product detail of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage and this lists PPI and direct debit 
payment (or internal transfer) as compulsory.
 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Nationwide no longer has their paperwork 
from the sale. I note Mr and Mrs K argue they signed where they were asked to, but it was 
mortgage application for a large sum, and I would have expected them to have read all 
paperwork carefully before signing.  
Nationwide has been able to provide a copy of the leaflet it says they would have been 
given. This makes clear that PPI was a condition to take advantage of the lower fixed rate. 
And making PPI a condition of a mortgage doesnt mean it was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs K 
couldve chosen to apply for a mortgage from a different lender if this wasnt the overall 
mortgage package they wanted. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold their complaint.
Overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made it clear the PPI was a condition of their 
mortgage, and they agreed to take it out.
Mr and Mrs K ask how we reached the conclusion that Nationwide didnt recommend the 
policy, and so it didnt have to check the policy was right for Mr K. They say this conclusion 
disregards what they feel happened to them. But in their PPI questionnaire they told us they 
couldnt remember if Nationwide gave advice. And I have seen no evidence that Nationwide 
reviewed their individual circumstances before making a recommendation. So I think its 
most likely it wasnt an advised sale. This means Nationwide didnt have to make sure the 
cover was suitable. 
It did however have to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so they 
could make a properly informed choice. And its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and 
Mrs K as much information as it shouldve done. But I dont think better information wouldve 
put them off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Mr K was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
things not covered by the policy. 
Mr K was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 24 months. It 
also gave him up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mr K was in receipt of an army 
pension but given the value of this I dont think it meant they didnt have a need for 
the PPI. Mr and Mrs K were borrowing a large amount over a long period, secured on 
their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think 
PPI couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs K if Mr K was sick or lost his job. And they 
were paying for it monthly, so if they no longer wanted it or their circumstances 
changed, they could cancel without incurring any further cost.
Mr and Mrs K say keeping costs down was important to them and I dont know at 
what stage during the sale the cost was made clear. But the PPI was competitively 
priced, and Ive seen no evidence it was unaffordable, so I dont think better cost 
information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs K have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman