DRN-3696034
The complaint
Mr F complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
NTM Financial Services Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to NTM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Fs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr F was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to NTM 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr F was 26 years old, unmarried and with no dependent children. 
Mr F lived at home with parents. However, he had significant savings in deposit type 
accounts and an individual savings account (ISA).
Mr F earned around £35,000. 
With around six years service, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Fs 
BSPS was approximately £44,615. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr F had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions.
NTM set out its advice in a suitability report on 10 January 2018. In this it advised Mr F to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. NTM said 
this would allow Mr F to achieve his objectives. Mr F accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr F complained to NTM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our Service. Im very sorry the complaint has taken so long to 
reach this stage. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said in July 2022 it 
should be upheld. In response, NTM asked for a number of extensions to think about the 
investigators view. But ultimately it said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr F had at the time. 
Ive also recently gave the business an opportunity to consider whether it wanted to resolve 
the case. However, as it seems this complaint cant be resolved informally, its therefore time 
for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, NTM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Fs best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from NTM. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Its not entirely clear whether Mr F ever made that choice. However, theres no 
evidence that he did. Perhaps understandably, he cant remember now if he ever filled out 
his Time to Choose form although he does recall that at the time he was having difficulty 
sourcing an adviser to help him due to the number of British Steel employees seeking help. 
But theres no documentation, which Ive seen, showing he did make a choice to say he 
wanted to join the BSPS2. And we know that if no choice was made then the member would 
eventually move from the BSPS, which was no longer an option, to the PPF, if they didnt 
transfer away to a personal pension type arrangement.
To be clear, I dont think Mr F ever made an election to join the BSPS2 ahead of the 
deadline. I say this because the documentation Ive got access to overwhelmingly refers to 
events in January 2018. For example, I can see a client letter of engagement was produced 
by NTM on 8 January 2018 and signed by Mr F. A fact-find was also produced and this is 
dated the same day, as is an attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire. Further to these 
documents, the pension analysis report is dated 10 January 2018 as is the recommendation 
(suitability) report. Confirmation hed been given regulated advice was on 17 January 2018 
and everything else Ive seen refers to dates in January 2018.
So, all this was several weeks after the hard deadline of 22 December 2017 Ive mentioned 
above and where members of the BSPS needed to make a choice. I therefore think the 
advice process was only conducted throughout January 2018 and beyond by NTM. 
However, I dont think the adviser either understood, or at the very least, promoted the 
relevance of these dates to Mr F. The advisers referred several times to comparisons with 
the BSPS even though this was no longer an option. What the adviser should really have 
been focussing Mr F on was the actual choices he still had left, which was simply to either 
move into the PPF or transfer away to a personal pension plan. Mentioning the BSPS in the 
way the adviser did, was in my view, confusing. It was demonstrative of NTMs poor advice.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice  it was 
clearly unsuitable in many respects. Nevertheless, it does matter to the redress that could be 
due for providing the unsuitable recommendation to transfer away from a DB scheme: 
redress should be measured against as if the member would have joined the PPF, rather 
than previously electing to join the BSPS2. 
This is a departure from the redress recommendation made by our investigator which Ive 
already corrected with both parties. Neither party has told me that Mr F ever elected to join 
the BSPS2 within the time allowed. So redress will be based on the PPF as this was his only 
other option.
Financial viability 
NTM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, NTM used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2, details of which had emerged, or the PPF which 
was by that time the only alternative Mr F had. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr F was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
NTM said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS, 
was 5.98% if Mr F took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum, 
the critical yield was 5.4%. However, NTM also calculated the critical yield rates for an 
earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because Mr F had apparently expressed a 
desire to retire early. Measured against the PPF upon retiring at 65, the critical yields came 
out at 4.95% (no tax-free cash) and 4.77% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off for Mr F and 
so I very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. He was only 26 years old and had literally 
decades before retirement would even come into focus for him. So, predicting whether or not 
he might take a lump-sum at retirement was quite obviously premature and in my view it 
lacked credibility. 
Nonetheless, NTM said the critical yields at age 65 and 60 were achievable over the long 
term and could potentially match the benefit that is offered by the British Steel Pension 
Scheme at the different ages. But all this needed a careful explanation, not least because 
the BSPS was being closed and was no longer available. I also think the assertion the 
critical yield growth in Mr Fs case might be achievable was misleading as it wasnt 
evidenced by any analysis showing how this could realistically happen. In fact, I dont think 
there was any reliable evidence at the time that achieving enough growth outside the DB 
scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was ever going to be attainable. I say this 
with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.4% per year for 38 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. Using NTMs retirement suggestion of 60, the discount rate 
was only 4.1%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. However, 
these figures had been in place for many years and they existed unchanged through a 
period of extraordinary low interest rates and bond yields. So, if anything, these assumptions 
were somewhat higher than the reality of the economic climate in early 2018. 
NTM simply couldnt predict a retirement age so far in advance. And as Ive also said above, 
the adviser lacked clarity over what he was measuring the critical yields against. We know 
the BSPS was already closing and Mr F had missed the deadline to join the BSPS2. So the 
adviser continually mentioning BSPS in the advice was confusing. What was relevant here 
was that the discount rate of 4.4% could have been considered alongside the critical yield for 
a retirement at 65 using the PPF, which was 4.95%. I think this comparison would have been 
cause for caution as it implied Mr F might receive lower retirement benefits, not higher. 
Thats because the discount rate for this scenario was below the critical yield rate thus 
implying that from a starting point, there was no obvious evidence pointing to Mr F achieving better retirement benefits by transferring to a personal pension plan. The opposite appeared 
to be true.
At the time, NTM assessed Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR) as average. But in reality, Mr F had 
no previous experience of these types of investments. He evidently ticked a pre-populated 
box to say he understood the workings of shares, but there was no evidence he possessed 
any at the time. Hed also never invested personally in money market funds, so he had no 
relevant experience to draw upon. I accept hed joined the new TATA DC scheme which 
involved investing, but again Ive seen nothing showing this was conducted under anything 
other than an off the shelf investment strategy which required no direct investment 
decisions from Mr F himself. In any event, hed only just joined this a few months before. Ive 
also noted that although he had around £60,000 in savings, theres no evidence these funds 
were held in anything other than deposit accounts or cash ISAs. 
In my view, the adviser used a pre-populated questionnaire to arrive at the average ATR 
categorisation. However, they seemed to ignore the fact that Mr F was a 26-year-old man 
with no such investments and - certainly at his age - with probably very little idea of what 
retirement might look like. I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or 
evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial 
comparison basis. Growth assumptions close to the regulators projections and also to the 
discount rate were most relevant here in my view. 
So, using everything Ive set out above, I think growth assumptions of around 4-to-4 % 
were more realistic. These were below the critical yield figures which NTM showed to Mr F. I 
think this showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was 
more unlikely than likely. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and 
fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr F, 
would have further reduced the likely growth assumptions. In my view, there would be little 
point in transferring away from a type of DB scheme (or the PPF) to get financial benefits of 
only a similar value. But here, even this relatively low bar wasnt being reached. Looked at 
through the prism of 2017, there was no compelling evidence of Mr Fs transferred funds 
growing by enough to make transferring a really worthwhile exercise based on his actual 
ATR. A recommendation to transfer should not have been made on this basis.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, NTMs own transfer analysis said that even in order 
to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided 
by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £134,837. This was three 
times more expensive than Mr Fs CETV  and for a much inferior pension. 
No such amount was provided in respect of the PPF type benefits although I think I can 
safely say the cost could have been moderately lower. But to reiterate, the above figure is 
found in NTMs own analysis. And because this figure is far above Mr Fs CETV, it 
represents, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr F 
could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, NTMs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr F would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term.
Ive also considered some projections NTM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr F well into retirement. However, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections using past performance. Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What NTM was showing Mr F were comparisons with plans 
which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to NTM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, NTM said Mr F also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the probable poorer benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
NTM recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Fs 
wider objectives. 
It said that by transferring the pension to a Defined Contribution arrangement this will give 
you the control of your retirement affairs that you want. It also said, the pension protection 
fund (PPF) provides excellent protection and would secure most of the income you desire. 
There would be a 10% drop in your benefits if you allow your pension funds to be transferred 
to the PPF. However, you would not have any flexible benefits to shape your income, the 
ability to take more income earlier in your life, ability to tax plan using the tax-free cash. 
NTM said Mr F wanted to control his own destiny in retirement and felt let down by the 
company and the wider industry. So, I have used all the documents we still have from the 
advice sessions to summarise the rationale for the recommendation for him to transfer away; 
I have noted the following themes:
He apparently wanted to retire at 60
He was apparently attracted to the flexibility of taking control of his pension benefits, 
being able to control how much income he took and when. He said he would like an 
income of £2,000pm in retirement
He had no requirement for a spousal pension at that time, preferring to leave any 
residual pension funds to his family
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr F approached NTM for advice because of the uncertainties he 
faced with the BSPS. 
However, as Ive mentioned above, Mr F was still only 26 years old. In this context, I think 
NTMs adviser saying Mr F had specific uses for his retirement funds lacked any standing. I 
think its important to focus for a moment here on just how young Mr F was. The evidence 
Ive seen here is that Mr F  understandably - had absolutely no plans whatsoever for his 
retirement. With over 38 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring if using 
his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly use the money for, should have 
been a major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing 
so involved an investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial 
benefits at retirement and which Mr F had no meaningful experience of. So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr F probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been vague 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this. 
I therefore think that everything that flowed from predicting Mr Fs retirement was flawed. For 
example, I dont think theres any real credibility behind Mr F estimating how much hed need 
to live on each month when he retired as this was so far off. I think its likely this was 
instigated by the adviser. But as our investigator explained, he still had his whole life ahead 
of him and its reasonable to assume hed potentially meet a partner and possibly have 
children. And even if his life did not follow this pattern, there were many years in which his 
personal and financial circumstances would almost certainly change. The adviser should 
have seen this very obvious uncertainty and incorporated it into their advice. Likewise, as 
Ive explained, I dont think the adviser could have possibly determined whether or not Mr F 
might access a lump-sum upon retirement or even how he would access his retirement 
benefits at all.
I think the adviser should have noted a clear vulnerability here in advising someone so 
young to withdraw from a guaranteed pension.
Flexibility and control
I also cant see that Mr F required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by NTM. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr F required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing 
job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. This DC 
pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr F and his employer - 6% and 
10% respectively and still had up to 38 years left to run (over 33 years if he did eventually 
retire early). So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr F any flexibility he might 
have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr F wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr F could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have a small but meaningful existing deferred DB 
scheme. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally 
bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a 
substantial DC scheme over a long period of time and its not unreasonable to say hed have 
amassed a substantial six-figure sum in this by retirement. So, if Mr F ever found he needed 
so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the 
former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr F had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr F was being offered the opportunity to move to the 
PPF. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original 
BSPS, but it remained a DB-type scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. Mr F 
himself had no experience of these types of other DC money market investments and I 
think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over 
£44,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to 
show Mr F would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost 
him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.NTM itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Im not going to use up 
time explaining what these figures were because retirement was so far away in the future as 
to make these estimates almost completely irrelevant. However, NTM accepted without any 
apparent challenge that Mr F might have needed around £2,000 per month in todays 
money  something I seriously question given the incredibly distant timescale. What the 
adviser was accepting here was that Mr F could estimate how much hed need each month 
in around 38 years time. 
However, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Fs pension entitlements wouldnt have 
easily met his anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer from a DB scheme. I 
dont think NTM adequately explained these things to Mr F as its advice simply discounted 
him transferring to the PPF to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt 
need.
I therefore think Mr Fs circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the 
PPF and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The PPF contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr F died. Mr F wasnt married and nor did he have 
children; the adviser raised this as part of the rationale for saying the death benefits werent 
needed in this way.
Once again, I think this shows a significant lack of foresight by the adviser. I think its 
obvious, that as a 26-year-old male, there was every reason to assume Mr Fs 
circumstances might change in the years ahead. I think the value of these benefits were 
most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the PPF would have 
been useful to a future spouse and / or children if he predeceased them. I dont think NTM 
made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was.
I can see the adviser probably told Mr F that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. The adviser specifically said, as a 
single individual, this benefit offers no value to you. So, the lump sum death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension were made to look like an attractive feature to Mr F. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr F might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I think what NTM said about this was 
again, misleading.
I cant say to what extent life insurance was discussed although it does look like he was 
given some whole life quotes. These were likely viewed by Mr F as expensive. But at 26 
years old, a modest term life insurance policy would have been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr F really did want to leave a large legacy for a specific relative or someone else. 
But more so, it doesnt appear that NTM took into account the fact that Mr F could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr F already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr F. I think this objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Fs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr F, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and NTM 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and NTM 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr F was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was NTMs obligation to give Mr F an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. I think that NTM should have reassured Mr F that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr F through the PPF would 
have still probably provided a significant minority of the income he would have needed at 
retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his 
ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment 
risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to NTMs recommendation to Mr F 
to transfer out altogether.
Suitability of investments 
NTM recommended that Mr F invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr F and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring to a new personal pension if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and migrate to the PPF. This means the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Other issues
NTM told us the FCA had reviewed some of its files where it had given advice in similar 
circumstances to Mr Fs. It said the FCA didnt find it had done anything wrong. I wasnt party 
to what the FCA reviewed or what it found, nor do I need to be. Our function isn't a 
regulatory one. And while I'm required to consider the regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, my role is to decide whether NTM has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
specific circumstances of this complaint not simply to look at what the FCA did. So the FCAs 
file review of other cases isnt relevant to that consideration.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. 
His CETV may have been modest by most standards, but he was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income within the PPF. By transferring to a personal pension, the 
evidence shows Mr F was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there 
were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think 
NTM ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, 
particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Fs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the PPF.Mr F still had many more years before he intended to retire. Much of the rationale used to 
justify the transfer-out recommendation was completely irrelevant to Mr Fs circumstances 
and I think the adviser fell a long way short of providing advice that was in Mr Fs best 
interests. The adviser was being paid for this advice, so their job wasnt to simply transact 
what Mr F thought was a good idea. He was only 26 years old and had no experience of 
these matters. The advisers job was to use their experience and training to see that Mr Fs 
personal circumstances were considered and to act in his interests.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr F would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that NTM disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr F, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr F to transfer out, and I think Mr F relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr F would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against NTMs advice. I say this because Mr F was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time, mainly because he was 
still so young. So, if NTM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted 
that advice.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for NTMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would have 
most likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. NTM should use the benefits 
offered by the PPF for comparison purposes.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr F and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Fs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr F before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr F receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr F accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr F for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Fs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr F as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Fs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that NTM should pay Mr F for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would likely have had on 
Mr F in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented most of his 
retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits would have 
impacted upon Mr F. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. NTM should pay Mr F this amount in addition to the redress instruction Ive 
set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct NTM 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman