DRN-3869130
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited. He isnt happy 
about the way it cancelled his car insurance policy. 
For ease of reading I have just referred to Mr A in this decision even though his complaint 
has been advanced by his representative. 
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr A took out his car insurance policy with Watford Insurance, but he didnt realise that he 
had taken the policy out through an unauthorised broker (ghost broker). When Watford 
Insurance undertook some checks, it had concerns about the policy and the ghost broker 
so it cancelled Mr As policy with immediate effect and placed a cancellation marker against 
his name. 
As Mr A wasnt happy about this he complained to Watford Insurance. It accepted that Mr A 
was an innocent party here, so it changed the fraud marker that was placed on the insurance 
database to say Mr A was a victim of fraud but maintained it was necessary to keep the 
cancellation marker. However, the cancellation marker was having an affect on Mr A in that 
his premiums were significantly higher because of the marker so he complained to this 
Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
sympathised with the position Mr A had found himself, as hed clearly been an innocent 
victim here, he didnt think Watford Insurance had done anything wrong. He felt the fault was 
with the ghost broker and Watford Insurance had acted fairly in cancelling the policy given 
the concerns it had and adding the cancellation marker and outlining that Mr A was a victim 
of fraud.
But Mr A remained unhappy, as the cancellation marker was having an impact on him 
getting insurance elsewhere as the premium was significantly more, so the matter has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive formed a different position to our investigator, and Im provisionally 
minded to uphold this complaint. Although I can understand Watford Insurances position 
and I accept that it has acted reasonably in cancelling the policy, but I believe leaving the 
cancellation marker in place creates an unfair outcome in the particular circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why.
It is accepted by all that Mr A has been the victim of a ghost broker here. I understand 
English isnt his first language and that he visited the offices of the ghost broker with family 
members on a number of occasions to check everything was recorded correctly - the follow 
up documentation and texts that were sent to him by the ghost broker supported this 
position. And he has taken a number of steps to report the unregulated broker now and has 
had his premium returned by the broker, which all evidences his innocence here. 
However, I agree that Watford Insurance acted reasonably in looking to cancel Mr As policy 
once it was aware of discrepancies that were linked to the ghost broker. But I think the 
fairest thing to do, in circumstances like this, was to have given Mr A the opportunity to 
cancel the policy himself so there wasnt any adverse effect on him going forward. 
I know Watford Insurance took some steps in this regard, in that it ensured the fraud marker 
made it clear that Mr A was a victim here. So, its intention was to try and limit the adverse 
effect on Mr A. But Mr A is still left with a cancellation marker against his name which has 
impacted his ability to get insurance elsewhere at a competitive price. Given this, and the 
clear impact a cancellation marker would have I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in 
the particular circumstances of this case, was for Watford Insurance to have given Mr B the 
opportunity to cancel the policy himself, rather than cancel it and have the cancellation 
marker impact his future premiums. 
So, I think Watford should change how the cancellation has been recorded now. And provide 
Mr A with a letter explaining the policy was cancelled in error on its part which will allow Mr A 
to show any future insurers that he hasnt had a policy cancelled if necessary. 
Finally, I can see this has caused Mr A a fair degree of stress and inconvenience as he 
hasnt been able to get insurance elsewhere amongst other things. I know Watford 
Insurance acted fairly in cancelling the policy but had it have given Mr A the opportunity to 
cancel the policy himself he wouldnt have faced these ongoing difficulties. So, I think it 
should pay Mr A £500 in compensation for the stress, inconvenience, and inability to gain 
insurance elsewhere at a competitive price.
Replies
Both sides responded. Mr A was grateful for the provisional decision and said he was happy 
to accept it. 
While Watford was also thankful for the decision but disagreed. It said that Mr A had bought 
the policy through a ghost broker and that he shouldnt be given the opportunity to cancel 
the policy himself and avoid a record being made on the database. And Watford said again 
that it did try and mitigate the issue by changing the tag on the insurance database from 
fraud to victim and said that there was a further anomaly that prevented it from putting Mr A 
back on cover.
So, while Watford appreciated that the policy holder had been the victim of the ghost 
broker, it felt that it had acted fairly and shouldnt be compensating Mr A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Watford, but Ill explain why. 
I can understand Watfords position. However, the way it cancelled Mr As policy has created 
an unduly harsh outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. I accept it took some steps to try and mitigate the position by ensuring the fraud marker showed Mr A was a victim 
here, but I dont think that goes far enough. 
Watford should have allowed Mr A the opportunity to cancel the policy himself in the first 
instance. And so I remain of the view that, given the clear impact a cancellation marker 
would have I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Watford Insurance to remove any cancellation markers against Mr As name so 
as not to negatively impact his future premiums. And provide Mr A with a letter explaining the 
policy was cancelled in error on its part. 
Plus, I maintain this has caused Mr A a fair degree of stress and inconvenience as he hasnt 
been able to get insurance elsewhere amongst other things. I know Watford Insurance acted 
fairly in looking to cancel the policy, but it should have given Mr A the opportunity to cancel 
the policy himself as he was a victim here. So, I think it should pay Mr A £500 in 
compensation for the stress, inconvenience, and inability to gain insurance elsewhere at a 
competitive price.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited to remove any record of the cancellation marker from 
any internal or external databases and provide Mr A with a letter of explanation. And pay Mr 
A £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman