DRN-4020087
The complaint
Miss B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) unfairly 
registered missed payments on her credit file.
What happened
Miss B says following losing her job in June 2021 as a result of the Covid pandemic, she 
experienced financial difficulties and via a debt management company she put in place a 
payment arrangement with Barclays. Miss B says when she attempted to arrange a balance 
transfer from Barclays to another provider she wasnt able to as her credit file had two 
missed payments recorded against her. Miss B says she made several attempts to discuss 
this with Barclays, but it failed to respond to her complaints. Miss B says while Barclays have 
more recently acknowledged her complaint it says it never received any previous request for 
support nor received her subsequent complaints.
Miss B feels Barclays have a responsibility to support its customers, and so it should remove 
the adverse entries from her credit file, refund any interest applied to her credit card account 
from January 2022 and compensate her for the stress and poor service she received. 
Barclays says it has no record of any requests from Miss B for a formal payment 
arrangement on her credit card account, and the email address she had used to raise the 
complaint were sent to an invalid email address. Barclays says Miss B missed payments in 
November 2021 and December 2021, but these were only recorded in January 2021 and 
February 2022, due to delays. Barclays says it has a responsibility to accurately report 
missed payments to the relevant credit reference agencies (CRAs) and it has done nothing 
wrong. Barclays confirmed interest was accruing on the credit card account but if Miss B 
wanted to discuss her options she should contact its specialist support team. 
Miss B wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information but didnt uphold the complaint. While the 
investigator understood Barclays responsibilities to support its customers under the 
Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) guidance referred to by Miss B, he felt there was no 
evidence to show shed ever discussed this with them or had a formal payment arrangement 
put in place. The investigator says Barclays have a responsibility to accurately record 
missed payments to the credit reference agencies. 
The investigator didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly when reporting the missed payments 
on her credit file.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Miss B to have discovered her credit file 
had been marked with two missed monthly payments even though shed believed Barclays 
had come to an arrangement to support her during this difficult time. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted fairly when it recorded two 
missed minimum monthly payments on Miss Bs credit file. 
Miss B and Barclays have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of 
events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made 
as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not 
to say I havent considered everything said  I have. 
Miss Bs complaint centres around the fact that Barclays havent provided the support she 
needed, in accordance with the FCA guidelines surrounding the Covid pandemic, when it 
registered two missed payments on her credit file at a time when she was looking for 
financial help from them. 
The first thing to say here is the FCA provided guidelines to all banks in March 2020 and this 
support guidance for financial support was eventually extended until the end of March 2021. 
So here when Miss B contacted Barclays in late October 2021 there was no formal Covid 
payment holiday guidance in place at that time. Thats not to say this service wouldnt expect 
banks like Barclays to offer forbearance when its customers get into financial difficulties and 
on balance I am satisfied it did that here and I will explain why. 
Its worth mentioning that Miss B says she sent a copy of her debt management charity 
(DMC)  proposal to Barclays which it says it never received and this was discussed in a 
telephone conversation in early November 2021. In that conversation it was explained by the 
Barclays agent to Miss B that even if such a document had been sent it would still need to 
discuss the account with her. In that same telephone call, it was established Miss B hadnt 
formally appointed the DMC to deal with her creditors on her behalf and she simply wanted a 
payment suspension until her job prospects had improved. 
Its important to say here that in any event Miss Bs income at that time didnt meet her 
outgoings so with that in mind it wouldnt have been possible for Barclays to set up a 
payment plan as it would have been unaffordable, so it agreed to a temporary 30 day hold 
with no interest or fees on the understanding Miss B would get back to them before that time 
to discuss her position. The agent during that call explained that late payments would be 
recorded on her credit file. I can also see that following that call Miss B was sent a letter 
confirming the arrangement and reminding her that her credit file would be affected. 
Following this in early December 2021 Miss B speaks again with Barclays looking for a three 
month hold but she was informed given her financial negative income position, that this 
could only be put in place if the DMC was formally acting on her behalf  but it wasnt so a 
further 30-day hold was agreed. 
This phone call was followed up in mid-December 2021 where Miss B explains she was 
waiting on the outcome of a job interview, and she was told to call back at the end of 
December 2021 for an update and this was confirmed in writing.
I can see Miss B telephoned Barclays in late December 2021 to go over her income and expenditure and it was explained as she hadnt yet started her new job a further 30-day hold 
would be put in place and no interest and charges would be applied during that time, but her 
credit file would be affected, and she should call back before that time. This was followed up 
in writing where it was again explained that her credit file would be affected by this 
arrangement. 
From the information I have seen in mid-January 2022 Miss B made a payment to her credit 
card account for the full minimum payment required of in excess of £800, but theres no 
evidence Barclays asked for this, nor that Miss B asked for any further assistance before 
making that payment. 
So, while I have some sympathy with Miss B here, theres no evidence to suggest a formal 
payment plan agreement had been put in place with the DMC and Barclays by Miss B, 
simply a holding arrangement was agreed until Miss B secured employment  after all a plan 
like this wasnt possible as it was established her monthly income didnt meet her monthly 
outgoings, unless she wanted to enter into an Individual Arrangement, which in all probability 
would have been more damaging to her credit file. So here, Im satisfied Barclays did 
provide the level of forbearance I would expect in these individual circumstances, and on 
balance it was only able to offer a temporary hold arrangement. While Miss B may not agree, 
that doesnt mean Barclays shouldnt accurately record these two missed payments on her 
credit file as it is obliged to do  Im also satisfied from the telephone calls I have listened to 
and the letters referred to above, that Miss B was made aware this would happen. 
While Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking any more of Barclays.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman