DRN-4120492
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have administered her 
account.
Miss Ts complaint is brought to this service by Miss Ts guardian, Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D became the legal guardian of Miss T, who receives care and who is unable to 
manager her financial affairs, in April 2022. 
For several years prior to this, Miss T had received care from a care provider, which had a 
mandate in place to access Miss Ts RBS bank account so that it could receive payment for 
the care it provided to Miss T.
In April 2020, in response to concerns raised at that time by Mrs D, RBS transferred Miss Ts 
banking relationship to one of their Customer Protection Managers  whose role included 
helping to protect Miss T from financial abuse and who placed restrictions on Miss Ts 
account because of that aspect of their role. 
RBS removed the restrictions on Miss Ts account once Mrs Ds guardianship of Miss T was 
confirmed to them. However, Mrs D was concerned by some aspects of how RBS had 
administered Miss Ts account, including that RBS appeared to have allowed employees of 
the care provider to have removed money from Miss Ts account that werent specifically 
named on the mandate that authorised certain employees of the care provider to do so.
Mrs D was also unhappy Miss T couldnt open a specific savings account because RBS only 
allowed that account to be applied for online, which Miss T couldnt do because of her lack of 
capability resulting from her disabilities. So, she raised a complaint on Miss Ts behalf.
RBS responded to Mrs D and said that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly regarding the 
mandate that allowed Miss Ts care provider to withdraw money from Miss Ts account to 
pay for Miss Ts care. And RBS also didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by making the 
commercial decision to provide the savings account in question as an online-only account. 
However, RBS did acknowledge that Mrs D had been told wrongly that RBS branch staff 
may have been able to assist with the opening of the online-only savings account and they 
apologised to Mrs D for this and because their telephony service wasnt as helpful as Mrs D 
had hoped. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so she referred Miss Ts complaint 
to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response RBS issued to 
Mrs D regarding Miss Ts complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had 
happened. Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that RBS have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
When Mrs D referred Miss Ts complaint to this service, she mentioned that there were 
transactions from Miss Ts account that werent recognised and which she felt RBS had 
allowed to be taken from Miss Ts account illegitimately by unauthorised employees of the 
care provider. And Mrs D felt that Miss T had been treated unfairly by RBS because RBS 
had allowed employees of the care provider that werent specifically named on the mandate 
that permitted to care provider to access Miss Ts RBS accounts. 
Finally, Mrs D questioned the legitimacy of the mandate itself, which she noted had to be 
signed by Miss T, but which couldnt have been legitimately signed by Miss T as shed never 
possessed the mental capacity  because of her disabilities  to have been able to 
understand the nature of the mandate she may have been asked to sign.
During my review of this complaint, I asked our investigator to contact Mrs D as I had some 
concerns about the nature of her complaint regarding the remit of this service, as Ive 
explained it above. Specifically, I asked Mrs D what outcome she was seeking to this 
complaint, and I explained that Id be unlikely to consider it fair that RBS should be instructed 
to reimburse withdrawals from Miss Ts account made by the care provider that were then 
used to pay for care which Miss T had needed.
Mrs D responded and explained that she wasnt seeking for RBS to reimburse any 
transactions to Miss Ts account, but that she did want RBS to be held accountable for not 
safeguarding Miss T as they should have done and to that an unfair outcome had occurred 
because the RBS had allowed employees of the care provider not named on the mandate to 
withdraw money from Miss Ts account.
As explained, this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law. And so, it isnt for this 
service to hold RBS to account as Mrs D would like. Also, I dont feel that the withdrawal of 
money from Miss Ts account by employees of the care home is an outcome as Mrs D 
suggests. Rather, I feel that these were events that could have led to an unfair outcome, but 
which appear not to have done. 
I say this because Mrs D has confirmed that she isnt seeking any reimbursements of 
specific transactions from Miss Ts account from RBS. And, given my question to Mrs D 
about this point, I feel its reasonable to conclude that this is because the withdrawals were 
then used by the care provider to pay for care which Miss T needed. Accordingly, I dont feel 
that any unfair outcome has occurred here in this regard.
Additionally, while I note Mrs Ds concerns about the legitimacy of the mandate that 
permitted the care provider to access Miss Ts accounts, RBS have been able to provide a 
copy of the mandate, dated 31 January 2007, which appears to have been signed by Miss T 
in the presence of a support worker who acted as a witness. As such, I dont feel RBS acting in accordance with this mandate is an unfair act.  
I also feel that its a commercial decision which RBS are fairly entitled to make as to whether 
to offer a product on an internet-only basis or not. And I feel that RBS confirming to Mrs D 
that she can assist Miss T in opening and maintaining such an account online is a 
reasonable suggestion. 
Mrs D has said that RBS are discriminating against Miss T because of the difficulties that 
theyve faced. But I dont feel that this is the case  or that RBS have done anything thats 
led to an unfair outcome here  and I note that RBSs actions appear to have allowed Miss T 
to have received the care she required without interruption. I hope that it helps Miss T to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked at her concerns. 
Finally, Im satisfied that the apology that RBS have provided to Mrs D regarding the service 
aspects of her complaint already represents a fair resolution to those aspects.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs D was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action here. I trust 
Mrs D will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman