DRN-3168164
The complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied overdraft charges to his account, 
contributing to his financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr R first contacted HSBC about the charges that had been applied to his account in 2007, it 
appears he then complained about those charges again in 2008 and 2009. At that time Mr R 
was complaining that the charges were unfair as they were too high. HSBC did not uphold 
his complaints, and Mr R has said that he referred his complaint to our service at that time. 
Given how long ago this was, we no longer have any record of this complaint from Mr R, but 
he has said he was ultimately told that we did not uphold his complaint and that his 
complaint was closed.
In 2020 Mr R complained to HSBC again about the overdraft charges that had been applied 
to his account from 2004 onwards, saying that these charges had contributed to his financial 
difficulties. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr R was dissatisfied with HSBCs 
response, he referred the complaint to our service.
HSBC has said that any complaint about charges applied to Mr Rs account before 2014 has 
been made too late. 
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She agreed with HSBC that 
Mr Rs complaint about charges from before 2014 had been made too late. She also 
explained that she felt the charges applied from 2014 onwards had been applied fairly. Mr R 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our adjudicator looked at this complaint, she said that we could not look at charges 
from before 2009 as Mr R had already referred a complaint about those charges to us. And 
the rules we follow say we can dismiss a complaint if it has already been considered by this 
service. 
The rules I must apply also say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a 
complaint made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if 
later, more than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, 
that they had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can 
be found online.
Mr R has complained about charges applied to his account from 2004 onwards causing him 
financial difficulties. This means that Mr R had, at least, six years from the date the charges 
were added in order to complain. Mr R didnt complain until 2020, so she complained more 
than six years after some of the events he is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mr R with longer to complain here.
I think that in order for me to find that Mr R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
he had cause to complain, I need to be satisfied that he was aware the charges were
being applied, knew that those charges were contributing to his financial difficulties, and
knew that it was HSBC who was responsible for applying the charges.
Mr Rs statements would have set out the charges hes unhappy with. So I think that
he would have been aware of the charges that HSBC was applying to his account at the 
time. And hed have been aware of his financial circumstances during that period of time too, 
so hed have known whether he was able to afford to pay the charges. As this is the case, I 
think that Mr R also ought to have known whether the charges were too much or causing 
him difficulty. And I think hed have known that HSBC was responsible for applying those 
charges too. So I think Mr R would have known he had cause to complain as soon as the 
charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Mr R with longer to 
complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that his complaint about charges from before 
2014 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. Mr R has told us that he didnt know he could 
complaint about the impact the charges had on his financial circumstances until recently.
But, as Ive explained above, Mr R knew the charges were being applied at the time, and he 
would have known if they were causing him undue difficulties, so I wouldve expected him to 
raise questions with HSBC about the charges if he felt he couldnt afford them or that they 
were making his financial situation worse. I acknowledge that Mr R has said he didnt know 
he could complain about charges causing or contributing to his financial difficulty, but I dont 
think Mr R needed to know about this specific guidance around financial difficulty to be 
aware that he felt charges might not have been appropriate given his financial situation. So, 
it remains that I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr R to contact HSBC sooner than he 
did in the circumstances. 
And other than what Ive considered above, Mr R hasnt put forward any other exceptional 
circumstances for me to consider. So I havent seen anything that would make me think 
exceptional circumstances apply in this case. Which means I dont think I can look at any 
charges applied to Mr Rs account from before 2014.
I can though, look at charges applied to Mr Rs account from 2014 onwards, to decide if 
those charges were applied fairly in light of any difficulties Mr R may have been 
experiencing. But Mr R has said his financial difficulties were no longer so severe after 2014, 
and his account statements support that. There was nothing on his statements that I think 
should have flagged to HSBC that Mr R might be struggling with his account or need help. 
With this in mind, I dont think that HSBC did anything wrong in continuing to apply any 
charges to Mr Rs account from 2014 onwards.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr R but Im satisfied that our rules mean I cant look at 
any charges applied to his account before 2014, and that HSBC has applied charges fairly 
from 2014 onwards, so I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman