DRN-2763813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Rooftop Mortgages Limited treated them unfairly when their buy 
to let mortgage fell into arrears. They also complain about the way the sale of their property 
was managed. They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a buy to let mortgage in 2006. The mortgage was on interest only 
terms. The account fell into arrears in 2016. Rooftop appointed a Law of Property Act (LPA) 
receiver in August 2019 and the property was sold in July 2020 for £70,000. This left Mr and 
Mrs B with a shortfall debt of about £60,000 which they cant repay.
They say Rooftop reneged on an agreement to return the property to them if they paid the 
arrears. This would have allowed them to finish renovating the property and sell it 
themselves. Mr and Mrs B say they told Rooftop that refurbishment of the property had been 
held up by Mr Bs health problems. They say if theyd been able to finish this work, the 
property would have sold for about £250,000. 
Mr and Mrs B say visits to the property by potential purchasers werent well managed and 
this upset a neighbour, who put up a fence to stop them crossing his land. They say this 
affected the value and they had no vehicular access to clear the property of their belongings. 
Our investigator said the account had been in arrears for some time and Mr and Mrs B had 
been unable to maintain payment arrangements to clear the arrears. It was reasonable for 
Rooftop to appoint an LPA receiver when it did. As the sale of the property was managed by 
the LPA receiver (who acted on behalf of the borrower, not Rooftop), we cant look into this. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They didnt agree with some of the statements made by Rooftop 
about the condition of the property. And they said the investigator hadnt taken their 
circumstances into account, and there were mitigating factors for them not making 
payments. They dispute that the receiver acted on their behalf and say when they tried to 
discuss the matter they were passed between Rooftop and the receiver.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have had a lot to deal with. Mr B suffered a serious health issue in 2014 which 
meant he was unable to work for some time. They werent able to complete the intended 
work to renovate on the property. Although they say considerable work was done the 
property was vandalised and items stolen. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B found it difficult to make payments due to their 
circumstances. I can also understand how upsetting it is to be left with a shortfall debt to pay, 
instead of selling the property for a profit to fund their retirement, as theyd hoped.
However, I must be fair to both parties here. Mr and Mrs B agreed to make monthly 
payments when they took out the mortgage. And from 2016 they were unable to do so, and 
their account was consistently in arrears.
I must also take into account that a buy to let property is a commercial investment. When 
lenders offer a buy to let mortgage they expect the property to be let out, with the rent 
covering the mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs Bs property hadnt been let  or in suitable 
condition to let  for some time. 
Mr and Mrs B did make some payments, and did at times reduce their arrears. 
Unfortunately, they werent always able to make payments when they said they would. 
Rooftop says it didnt receive income and expenditure information it requested, and without 
this it couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Bs proposals.  
Rooftop wrote to Mr and Mrs B several times in 2019 before appointing the LPA receiver. It 
said this could be avoided if the arrears were cleared. It discussed appointing an LPA 
receiver with Mr B in March 2019 and sent several letters after this. It extended time limits for 
Mr and Mrs B to clear the arrears. The receiver was appointed in August 2019 as Mr and 
Mrs B hadnt been able to clear the arrears to avoid this happening. By this time, the account 
had been in arrears for three years.
I dont think Rooftop acted unfairly when dealing with Mr and Mrs B after their account fell 
into arrears in 2016. It made efforts to contact them and to reach agreement about how the 
arrears would be paid. It gave them clear information about what steps it would take, and 
what they needed to do to avoid a receiver being appointed.
After the receiver was appointed Rooftop said it would consider removing the receiver if Mr 
and Mrs B paid the default balance (the arrears, fees and costs and additional interest). 
Again, it seems they were unable to do so. 
In early 2020 Mr B asked if they could have the property back so that they could finish the 
renovation work and then market the property themselves. Rooftop declined, saying it would 
only return the property on full redemption of the account. While this was disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Rooftop acted unfairly when making this decision. It considered 
their proposal and took into account the past conduct of the account and what it had been 
told about the condition of the property and problems with the access to it.
Mr and Mrs B say Rooftop had reneged on its offer to return the property if they paid the 
default balance. It said they had to redeem the mortgage in full. Rooftop says this was 
because of concerns about the condition of the property, which it became aware of after the 
receiver was appointed. I dont think Rooftop acted unfairly. It was entitled to take into 
account the information it received. 
While Rooftop appointed the LPA receiver, once appointed the receiver acted on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs B. The receiver managed the sale of the property. We cant look into the actions 
of the receiver. So while Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way the sale was managed and 
the amount the property was sold for, this isnt something I can look into. 
Mr and Mrs B say when they asked for information they were passed between Rooftop and 
the receiver  each suggesting they contact the other. I can appreciate their frustration. I 
cant comment on the actions of the receiver, as Ive said. I think Rooftop responded to Mr 
and Mrs Bs substantive requests  in particular what theyd need to do for it to hand the 
property back to them.Mr and Mrs B say they arent able to pay the shortfall debt. Id urge them to contact Rooftop 
and provide the information it requests with the aim of agreeing an affordable repayment 
arrangement or exploring what options might be available to them. Id remind Rooftop of its 
duty to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly.
While the complaint has been with us, Mr and Mrs B have raised a further complaint, that the 
mortgage was mis-sold. As this wasnt part of the complaint they raised with Rooftop and 
then brought to us, I cant look into that here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman