DRN-3516146
The complaint
Mr B and Miss J have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) mis-
sold them a home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr B as he has mainly dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Mr B contacted Lloyds to make a claim when the washing machine leaked, causing damage 
to his home. Lloyds accepted the claim but said it would only deal with the damaged items 
because Mr B didnt have matching sets cover. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds as he thought he would have taken out matching sets cover if it 
had been available, so he said the policy had been mis-sold. When Lloyds replied, it said Mr 
B had been advised he didnt have matching sets cover. Mr B had also spoken to Lloyds a 
couple of times to make changes to the policy and the policy had also renewed four times. It 
said the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
although Mr B originally has matching sets cover, Lloyds had written to Mr B to say it no 
longer provided that cover. At the renewals following that, she said the documents also 
clearly explained that matching sets cover wasnt included.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. Ive considered the information provided to Mr B, including the policy 
documents when he took out the policy and at the renewals.
Mr B first took out the policy in 2016. At that time, the policy included matching sets cover. 
However, when the policy renewed in 2018, on the first page of the renewal letter it said:
Before you renew:
Read the `Notice of Changes' leaflet, alongside your policy documents enclosed, as it details 
changes we're making to your policy conditions from renewal. Key changes include:
- Replacement of sets cover is being removed from your chosen level of cover and will not 
be available if you make a claim

Check the cover is still right for your needs by reviewing the enclosed Policy schedule. If 
you'd like to add or remove any optional cover, please call us for a quote. We've not 
provided a personal recommendation.
Ive also looked at the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which was provided 
with the renewal documents. Under the heading What is not insured?, the first item listed 
was Replacement of sets. So, I think Lloyds was clear at this renewal that the cover 
provided was changing and would no longer include cover for matching sets, that Mr B 
should check the cover still met his needs and that he should contact Lloyds if he wanted to 
discuss the policy.
Ive also read the renewal documents for the period in which the claim was made. These 
said Mr B should check the cover was right for his needs and the IPID also said that the 
replacement of sets wasnt insured.
Im aware Mr B has said he didnt receive the renewal documents, so he wasnt aware of 
what they said. Ive checked the address the renewal documents were sent to and this 
matches the address we have for Mr B. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the 
documents were sent correctly. Mr B has also said Lloyds should have phoned him to check 
he had received the renewal documents and was aware of the changes. However, Lloyds 
told Mr B about the changes when it sent him the renewal letter and there was no 
requirement for it also to contact him by phone.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Lloyds provided information that was clear, fair 
and not mis-leading. The information at the 2018 renewal explained that matching sets cover 
was being removed and the 2020 renewal said the policy didnt provide cover for matching 
sets. I havent seen anything that persuades me the policy was mis-sold. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman