DRN-1847260
The complaint
Ms G complains that Connells Limited gave her poor advice when she asked about how best 
to purchase a property and get a mortgage.
What happened
Ms Gs sister lived and worked in a rented property and her mother worked there. The 
landlord of that property wanted to sell it and gave Ms Gs sister an opportunity to buy it if 
she completed before December 2018.
Ms G approached a mortgage adviser in a firm that was an appointed representative of 
Connells in March 2018. Ms G had two plans. Plan A was to buy the property with her sister 
and mother sharing the cost. In Plan B her mother would transfer her property to Ms G, and 
she would use part of the equity to raise a mortgage to provide money which her sister could 
use to buy the other property. The Connells mortgage adviser told her that Plan A was a bad 
idea, so she opted for Plan B. 
After her mothers property was transferred to Ms G, she went back to Connells, but the 
original mortgage adviser had left. The new mortgage adviser began to process the 
application but discovered that Connells couldnt source a mortgage for Ms G as the 
mortgage companies on Connells panel wouldnt provide a mortgage for her as she hadnt 
lived in the property as a homeowner for more than six months. Ms G was distraught when 
she got the unwelcome news but managed to get a suitable mortgage through a different 
broker. Ms G made a complaint to Connells. Connells didnt accept that it had done anything 
wrong but offered Ms G £100 for her upset at the way Connells responded to her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that Connells did anything wrong. Ms G disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Ms Gs detailed submissions in this case and can see that she became very upset 
by the process. She was dealing with several complex and I imagine emotionally draining 
issues at the time including her divorce and looked to get advice from an experienced 
mortgage broker. What I find disappointing in this complaint is that Connells has never really 
responded to Ms Gs complaint. It agrees that it was slow in responding to her. But in its 
letter of 12 April 2019, although Connells sets out Ms Gs complaint it doesnt actually 
explain why it isnt upholding it. Im sure it would have been helpful to Ms G had Connells 
addressed her points.
Whilst I understand Ms Gs frustration with Connells responses when I look at the details of 
the complaint, I cant say that Connells has done anything wrong. Ms G brought two plans to 
Connells and the adviser gave his opinion that he didnt like Plan A, so Ms G went ahead 
with Plan B. I have no evidence that Plan A would have been a better plan than Plan B or if 
she went with Plan A that she wouldnt have experienced the issues she had with Plan B.  
Ms G seems to have successfully completed Plan B and achieved her objectives. I 
appreciate that this wasnt smooth, but it appears to be a complex series of transactions. But 
I have no evidence that this advice was incorrect, or that Plan A was a better plan and would 
have worked out better.
I appreciate that Ms G went back to Connells and the company was unable to source her a 
mortgage, Ms G has explained how devastated she felt. But I cant see that Connells 
promised that it would get Ms G a mortgage. Saying that Plan A, was bad is different than 
telling Ms G that it would definitely source her a mortgage. Ms G was told that Plan A was a 
bad idea and for Ms G to return when she had progressed matters to set up a mortgage. 
Thats a long way from being a promise that Connells would definitely get her a mortgage. In 
the event Connells couldnt provide a mortgage because its lenders wouldnt lend in her 
circumstances but there were mortgages available to Ms G elsewhere and happily Ms G got 
a mortgage at a good rate with a mainstream lender with a different broker based on Plan B. 
So, its difficult for me to say that the advice to go with Plan B was wrong if that was the 
outcome.
I appreciate that the adviser in September took a short period to determine that Ms G 
circumstances wouldnt allow it to provide her with a mortgage and that it was annoying to 
get quality control phone calls when her complaint hadnt been dealt with.  But, for the above 
reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I note that Connells has offered £100 for the poor 
way it dealt with Ms Gs complaint which seems reasonable and I will leave it to Ms G if she 
wants to accept that.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman