DRN-2175199
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way OVO (S) Home Services Limited (OVO) pursued him for a 
debt it said he owed on his cancelled home services policy.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr R renewed his boiler home services policy with OVO. Mr R opted to pay his 
premium in twelve monthly instalments.
OVO initially told Mr R it would collect the first instalment in August 2018. But, to 
recognise some payment problems at renewal, OVO decided not to collect the first 
instalment from Mr R as a goodwill gesture. It started to collect payments monthly by 
direct debit from September 2018.
In May 2019, Mr R received documents ahead of his policy being renewed the following 
month. Mr R wasnt happy that the renewal quote was significantly more than the previous 
years premium (particularly as he wasnt happy with aspects of OVOs service). So, he 
decided to cancel his policy.
Mr R waited until the June 2019 instalment had debited his account and then told OVO he 
was cancelling the policy and his direct debit.
In the meantime, OVO renewed the policy and then cancelled it in line with Mr Rs request.
OVO wrote to Mr R on two occasions in July 2019 to tell him that a payment couldnt be 
collected because the direct debit had failed. OVO told Mr R that if he wanted cover to 
continue, he should ask his bank to reinstate the direct debit instruction. Or if he wanted to 
cancel the cover, he should call OVO to arrange that.
In March 2020, a debt collection agency contacted Mr R telling him he owed OVO an 
outstanding balance. Mr R responded to the debt collection agency and asked for an 
explanation why he owed the debt.
Mr R then complained to OVO, which responded to his complaint in late March 2020. 
OVO said it was satisfied it had acted within the terms of its agreement with Mr R, so it 
rejected his complaint. Amongst its reasons it said it had written to Mr R twice in July 2019 
to tell him it couldnt collect direct debit payments. As the policy had been cancelled, the 
letters didnt refer to an overdue payment, but a failed direct debit. It also said it was entitled 
to contact debt collection agencies in line with the terms of Mr Rs policy. OVO invited Mr R 
to complain to our service if he wasnt happy.
Mr R complained to us in April 2020.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and felt that as the debt was owed 
on the 2018/19 policy, it was reasonable for OVO to pursue it. Whilst Mr R accepted the 
investigators explanation about outstanding payments, he wasnt happy because OVO 
didnt communicate with him about the missed payment. And he felt by engaging debt 
collectors without any forewarning or explanation, OVO harassed him. Whilst our 
investigator felt OVOs communication could have been clearer, she didnt think Mr Rs 
comments altered her assessment overall. As Mr R didnt agree, the matters been 
passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally found  and why
I sent Mr R and OVO my provisional decision on 27 August 2020. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below:
In bringing this complaint, Mr R said OVO unfairly chased him for a debt he didnt owe. 
And that in pursuing the debt in the way it did, OVO harassed him and caused him worry 
and frustration.
As Mr R now accepts our investigators explanation about why he owes an outstanding 
balance to OVO, Ive focussed in this decision on what I believe to be the key outstanding 
issue since our investigator issued her assessment. That is, the way OVO pursued the 
outstanding debt from Mr R.
And having thought carefully about what Mr R said, unless I receive other evidence, Im 
likely to partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says a lot of time and trouble could have been saved if OVO had clearly explained 
to him earlier why the debt was outstanding. I agree.
Ive looked at the wording of the letters OVO sent in July 2019. I can see it told Mr R if he 
wanted cover to continue, he should ask his bank to reinstate his direct debit. Or, if he 
wanted OVO to cancel his cover, he should call to arrange that. But at the point at which 
OVO wrote to Mr R, he wanted neither of those things. I say that because hed already told 
OVO he wouldnt be renewing his policy and hed cancelled his direct debit. So, given the 
wording of OVOs letters, I can see why Mr R probably thought there was no need for him 
to get in touch. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied OVO made it at all clear it was 
referring to missing payments for the previous policy period. I am satisfied, however, that 
the lack of clarity or accuracy in the letters is the root cause of the problems Mr R is 
complaining about.
Mr R says OVO harassed him by engaging debt collectors without any forewarning. 
Whilst Im satisfied OVO was entitled to instruct debt collectors in line with the terms of the 
policy, that, in itself, doesnt mean it was reasonable to do so. So, Ive thought more about 
this. The amount of contact from OVO and the debt collectors wasnt excessive in number, 
so I dont agree it constitutes harassment in that sense. But I do agree with Mr R that the 
debt collectors were instructed without any forewarning by OVO. And I also accept that 
caused him worry and frustration.
In any event, before instructing debt collectors, Id have expected OVO to have made its 
own reasonable attempts to collect the outstanding payment. Im not satisfied it did that. 
I say that because referring an outstanding debt to a debt collection agency is a fairly 
serious step for a company to take. And, on balance, Im not persuaded two identical letters 
- weeks apart - followed by no contact at all for many months constitutes reasonable effort 
on OVOs part to collect payment.
Had OVO been clear about the overdue payment and told Mr R it was intending to refer 
the matter to debt collectors, I think its likely Mr R would have got in touch to sort the problem out and stop things from escalating. I say that because the evidence suggests 
Mr R responded to the debt collection agency straight away, so its likely hed have done 
the same if OVO had got in touch sooner.
Overall, I dont think OVO acted in a fair or reasonable way. And thats caused Mr R 
unnecessary frustration and worry. To put things right now, Im intending to direct OVO to
pay Mr R compensation of £100 to recognise the impact of its actions
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Mr R or OVO had any additional comments to make or information to give me in 
response to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R or OVO had any additional comments to make, or new information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. So, my final 
decision is set out below.  
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. And direct OVO (S) Home Services Limited to pay Mr R £100 
compensation to recognise the unnecessary frustration and worry caused by its failure to 
make reasonable effort to collect an outstanding payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman