DRN-4018180
The complaint
A charity Ill call H complains that HSBC told it to ignore a letter giving notice to close its 
account, then closed the account anyway. H says HSBC caused it problems in the build up 
to the account closure, and continued to make mistakes afterwards.
To put things right, H wants HSBC to compensate it for various losses H says it incurred as 
a result of HSBCs actions.
What happened
On 17 February 2020, HSBC contacted H to start what it called a safeguarding review of Hs 
account. The review lasted several months and the extent of the same is known to both 
parties, so I wont repeat all of the details here. But briefly, HSBC requested various 
documents and information, such as its policies for things like anti-bribery and corruption, 
anti-money laundering and terrorist financing.
H appointed solicitors to help provide responses to HSBCs questions, and attended 
appointments to discuss various matters relating to its organisation. 
H told our service that, while the review was ongoing, it received a letter dated 1 December 
2020, advising H that HSBC intended to close Hs account. H contacted HSBC to query this 
given the status of the safeguarding review. HSBC said the letter had been generated in 
error, and assured H that the account wouldnt be closed. The review continued and HSBC 
agreed to extend the deadline for completion to May 2021.
On 5 February 2021 though, H discovered that it couldnt access its account. When H 
contacted HSBC to find out why, HSBC said the account had been closed, and that it 
couldnt explain the reason for its decision.
H complained, saying it had been told to disregard the notice to close letter, and that the 
sudden closure had caused it problems as it wasnt able to open a new account at short 
notice.
On 8 February 2021, HSBC issued its final response to Hs complaint. It said it had sent a 
notice to close letter on 1 December 2020, to the address it held on file for H. And that its 
decision to close the account was separate to its safeguard review. It said it couldnt disclose 
the reason behind its decision to close Hs account, given the sensitive nature of the review, 
and said H could take its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if it remained 
unhappy.
H eventually managed to open an account elsewhere and, after some problems getting 
HSBC to transfer the balance, completed the switch when the balance of £8,091.36 was 
transferred on 26 March 2021.
H brought its complaint to our service. It was unhappy at the way HSBC had conducted the 
safeguarding review, and that it had closed Hs account after saying it wouldnt do so. H said 
the closure meant it had to suspend all charitable activities, and that it went without an 
account because of the difficulties of opening a new account at that time. It was also 
unhappy at delays in processing the funds transfer to Hs new account.
To put things right, H wanted to know why HSBC had closed its account, and to know about 
any markers HSBC might have placed against H. It also wanted HSBC to release the 
balance held in Hs account, and to be paid compensation for the time it had spent dealing 
with the safeguarding review, for donations it said it missed out on as a result of the sudden 
block, plus various professional fees and expenses.
Our investigator upheld Hs complaint, but didnt award all of the compensation H had 
sought. She said HSBC was entitled to review and close Hs account in the manner it did, 
but she felt HSBCs conflicting information regarding the notice to close had caused H 
inconvenience and that HSBC should pay H £300 in compensation. 
HSBC accepted our investigators outcome, but H didnt. It challenged HSBCs right to take 
the actions it did and provided a schedule of the losses it claimed. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023. In it, I said:
The safeguarding review
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to review customers 
accounts and ask questions/request documents to ensure compliance.
So, in order to make an award in favour of H, I would need to be satisfied that HSBC acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Hs account. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between HSBC and H.
I recognise H found the review intrusive, and that it continued for several months, but these 
reviews can be complicated and its not always possible for a bank to raise all of its enquiries 
together. And, having thought about what both parties have said, Im satisfied HSBC 
completed its review in an appropriate manner, that it acted reasonably promptly in the 
circumstances of this particular case, and that it didnt ask questions it wasnt entitled to, or 
request information it shouldnt have to the extent that a payment of compensation would be 
warranted.
I can see that H incurred significant legal expenses and invested many hours of staff time in 
complying with HSBCs requests, but I cant reasonably ask HSBC to compensate H for 
those items. For the reasons Ive set out above, HSBC didnt do anything wrong, so Hs 
losses dont flow from a bank error. Further, its decision to appoint a solicitor was its own 
choice, not HSBCs. And if H didnt want to incur those costs, it could have declined to 
answer HSBCs questions and sought banking arrangements elsewhere.
To be clear, I understand why H didnt do so and Im not seeking to criticise Hs actions: Im 
simply explaining why HSBC isnt liable for that part of Hs claim.
Finally, its worth noting that I havent seen any evidence HSBC recorded any adverse 
markers against H on the back of its review. If H has further specific concerns it has yet to 
disclose, it should confirm these to me in response to this provisional decision.
Account closureJust as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms of Hs account, with which both HSBC and H had to comply, say that HSBC can 
close Hs account as long as it gives at least 2 months notice. I havent seen the notice to 
close HSBC sent, but both parties have told our service HSBC sent a letter dated 1 
December 2020, giving two months notice of its intention to close Hs account.
That being the case, HSBC did comply with the terms of the account when initiating the 
closure. HSBC isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to close Hs account (or 
why it carried out the review for that matter), and I cant reasonably force it to do so against 
its wishes. So, I wont tell HSBC to explain its decision to H, and because Im satisfied it was 
entitled to close the account, at least in the manner it originally intended to: i.e. by giving two 
months notice, I dont consider the act of closing Hs account to be unfair.
However, H told our service it received a second letter at the same time, also dated 1 
December 2020, extending the deadline for the safeguarding review to be completed to May 
2021. And H says HSBC then confirmed on the phone that the notice to close letter could be 
disregarded. HSBC accepted our investigators findings on this point, so the facts are not in 
dispute.
While HSBC did initially instigate the closure procedure correctly, its actions in extending the 
review long beyond the closure date, and in telling H to ignore the notice to close clearly 
contradicted its notice to close. And Im satisfied that, by doing so, it had rescinded the 
notice and led H to believe that its account wouldnt be closed.
Compensation
Because of HSBCs error, H went without banking facilities for a significant period of time. H 
says this caused damage to its reputation, that it couldnt pay its staff at the end of February, 
that it missed out on some donations, and that others were delayed, that it incurred 
professional fees, and that its trustees experienced distress and inconvenience. H has set 
out a full schedule of its losses, some of which I think are reasonable, but others are not.
While I understand why H instructed its solicitors to help with the account closure, I dont 
consider it would be reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for those fees. Hs decision to 
incur legal fees in dealing with the closure was its own choice and I dont consider it was 
necessary to do in the circumstances of this particular case. There was no litigation, and 
HSBC didnt change its decision based on Hs representation, nor was it likely to. 
Further, from the breakdown provided, it seems that some of the fees would have been 
incurred had HSBC closed the account correctly. H has claimed legal fees for drafting 
documents, which it says was wasted as HSBC ultimately closed its account. As Ive said 
above, HSBC was entitled to request the documents and information it did. And Ive seen 
nothing to demonstrate HSBC intended to close Hs account all along, so I cant say HSBC 
caused H to incur wasted fees. Rather, H simply incurred fees in complying with HSBCs 
legitimate enquiries.
I also cant award compensation for the distress experienced by Hs trustees or service 
users. HSBCs customer is H not the trustees themselves, so I can only make an award for 
inconvenience H experienced or damage to its reputation, and not distress experienced by 
Hs staff or trustees.
With that being said, I do consider H suffered significant inconvenience as a result of the short notice closure, as well as a degree of reputational damage which warrant 
compensation. Part of Hs claim for reputational damage relates to its donors concerns 
about its new banks procedures. But I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for the 
actions or reputation of another bank, particularly given that Ive said HSBC was entitled to 
close Hs account.
H also claims to have missed out on donations as a result of the closure, and that some 
other donations were delayed. That element of Hs claim is very difficult to accurately assess 
to the point that I could confidently say H has suffered the losses it claims. Based on the 
evidence provided, Im not persuaded the donations lost wont be gifted in the future. And I 
cant accurately assess what portion of the delayed donations were purely as a result of 
HSBCs error.
Ultimately though, I am persuaded that H suffered damage to its reputation as a result of not 
having an account (and therefore not being able to pay staff/consultants and donors having 
payments returned), inconvenience as a result of its employees/trustees attentions being 
directed elsewhere at short notice, inconvenience as a result of HSBCs handling of the 
actual closure and balance transfer and a degree of disruption to its donations.
For the reasons Ive set out, I consider the above was significant enough to warrant 
substantial compensation. And Im minded to tell HSBC to pay H £1,000.
I asked both parties to submit any further evidence or arguments they wished me to consider 
by 14 March 2023. HSBC accepted my findings and didnt have anything further to add. H 
set out the order of events in relation to HSBCs delays in transferring its account balance. It 
said that demonstrated the significant inconvenience H experienced as a result of HSBCs 
actions.
I want to reassure H that I did consider the timeline of events prior to issuing my provisional 
findings, and that I gave due consideration to that in reaching my outcome. Indeed, I 
increased the compensation our investigator suggested in part to recognise the problems 
caused from 5 to 26 March, i.e. the period H detailed in its reply to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I didnt receive any further evidence or information that changes my mind, my 
provisional findings remain unchanged.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC must pay H £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman