DRN-2712150
The complaint
Mr L  on behalf of his company (L)  complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) 
continued to collect premiums for rent guarantee cover when he wasnt able to make a claim 
under the policy.
  
What happened
Mr L holds a landlord policy with UKI, that includes legal cover with an optional rent 
protection element. After hearing the government announcement that tenants could not be 
evicted during the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr L contacted UKI to establish whether this would 
affect his ability to claim under the rent guarantee aspect of his policy.
Mr L says that UKI told him that he would not be able to claim as they were awaiting further 
guidance from the government about legal proceedings for repossession during the 
pandemic, and what the pre-action protocol for such action would look like.
Mr L raised a complaint, which prompted UKI to issue a final response in April 2020. In their 
response, UKI said that rent guarantee claims could be notified, but that they were on hold 
and could not be assessed until the government issued the remaining elements of its advice. 
Mr L grew concerned that his rental income was no longer protected under his policy with 
UKI so, in response to their final response letter, he took out an additional rent guarantee 
policy with a third-party insurer that gave more clarity on the procedure for making a claim. 
However, Mr L said that UKI should refund him the premiums hes paid for the duration he 
has had to pay for the additional cover with the third-party insurer. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, as he considered that UKI could have been clearer in 
their communication with Mr L about his options to potentially claim in the future, as well as 
clarifying that there had been no changes made to the cover in response to the government 
announcements. As a result, he thought that UKI had created uncertainty that had led to 
Mr L being dual insured, so he recommended that they refund the premiums he had paid 
towards the rent protection element of the policy from the point he took out the additional 
cover. UKI disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
UKI say that there has been no changes or alterations made to their rent guarantee cover in 
response to the government guidelines. They say that claims could still be made, but that it 
would just take a little longer for them to be processed, as there was no legal mechanism 
available in which to assess claims at that point in time. I accept this was the case, but Im 
not persuaded that UKI clearly communicated this to Mr L in their correspondence with him.
In their final response, UKI said that the rent guarantee section of the policy could only be 
utilised if the insurer could move forwards with repossession of the property which, at the 
time, wasnt possible due to the government restrictions that prevented any action being 
taken against tenants for repossession during the pandemic. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for UKI to pause claims temporarily while they awaited further guidance from 
the government. But Mr L says they gave him the impression that no claims would be 
processed, such that he was paying for cover that he could not benefit from. And based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion for him to make, as the 
final response from UKI stated:
For claims where prospects have not yet been determined, it is now impossible to 
assess them until the government issues the remaining elements of its advice, 
including the pre-action protocols. Therefore, these claims should continue to be 
notified but are placed on hold until they can be assessed. As confirmed above, you 
can still notify us of a claim, but claims are unable to be assessed currently.
I appreciate that the insurer was in a difficult position here, as they were having to react to 
changing government updates, while trying to provide clarity to their customers with regards 
to potential claims. And I acknowledge that it sent communication to its customers in March 
2020 stating that no rent guarantee claims would be paid for the next three months. But in 
the circumstances of this case, taking into account what Mr L says he was told on the phone 
and what he was told by UKI in their final response, I do think that UKI could have been 
clearer with regards to Mr Ls options for claiming under the policy in the future (and if claims 
would potentially be backdated, for example, for the duration they were place on hold). 
UKIs correspondence gave little information about how he could receive the benefit he was 
paying for in the event that his tenant stopped paying rent during this uncertain period, other 
than saying that they could not complete their legal process for assessing claims, meaning 
that nothing would be assessed at that point. I appreciate that the policy has effectively 
remained on risk for this cover, and that UKI has since said that if a valid claim was made, it 
would be considered from the date the rent stopped. But I cant see that this information was 
ever clearly conveyed to Mr L. UKI only said that he could notify them of any claims, but that 
nothing at that stage would be assessed as it was on hold.
In response to this, Mr L thought he had been left unprotected and subsequently sought out 
another policy with a different insurer. He has provided evidence of the second policy he 
took out which, in comparison to UKIs correspondence, does clearly set out the steps a 
landlord would need to take in order to claim for rent arrears during this period, and did not 
state that claims were on hold or would not be processed. 
Given the uncertainty Mr L was facing with regards to his ability to claim for rent arrears 
under his policy with UKI, I do not consider it was an unreasonable course of action for him 
to seek out another policy with another insurer that could provide more clarity at that time. 
And I think many other landlords in a similar position wouldve done the same if they had 
been given the same information as Mr L. I therefore uphold his complaint. 
Putting things right
Fortunately, Mr L has not found himself in a position of having to claim for rent arrears during 
the pandemic. But I do consider that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of having to 
pay premiums for two separate rent arrears policies, given he was led to believe that he 
couldnt benefit from his policy with UKI. I think this couldve likely been avoided if UKI had 
been clearer in their communication. Therefore, in these particular circumstances, I consider 
they should fairly and reasonably put matters right by refunding the premiums for the rent 
protection element of Mr Ls policy with them from the date he took out the additional policy with the third-party insurer. 
From what I understand, Mr L is still insured under both policies. He says he wants to retain 
all the other elements of his landlord cover with UKI, but the insurer has said that it will need 
to cancel the current policy in order to set up another one without the rent protection element 
(and that they could do the same if he wanted to take out rent protection again in the future). 
I understand that Mr L did not want to cancel his current policy with UKI. But he cannot 
reasonably expect the insurer to keep the rent protection cover in place indefinitely at their 
own expense, just to keep the landlord policy in place in its current form. 
Mr L will therefore need to decide whether to cancel his current policy with UKI in order to 
take out another one without rent guarantee cover (while keeping his other policy in place 
with the third-party insurer). Or alternatively, Mr L could also choose to cancel the policy with 
the third-party insurer and retain his full policy with UKI, now that matters have been clarified 
with regards to the extent to which rent guarantee claims can be made with UKI. However, 
he cannot keep both policies with both insurers in place and expect UKI to fund the cost of 
one of them.
Therefore, UKI should reimburse the premiums paid for the rent protection element of the 
policy up until the date it pays the settlement set out in this decision, at which point Mr L will 
need to decide which rent guarantee policy he is going to keep or cancel. If Mr L chooses to 
cancel his rent protection cover with UKI, the insurer should allow him to do this without 
penalty.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I direct UK Insurance Limited to reimburse Company L the 
premiums it paid the rent protection cover element of its policy, from the date Mr L took out 
the additional policy with the third-party insurer, until the date of settlement.
UKI should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date the second 
policy was taken out until the date of settlement.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L  on behalf of 
Company L  to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman