DRN-3211953
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his home insurance 
claim for damage caused by subsidence. 
What happened
Mr G made claim in 2008 under his home insurance policy for damage to his property
caused by subsidence. UKI accepted the claim, noted it was the result of consolidation
settlement, and carried out repairs. A certificate of structural adequacy was issued in 2009
and the claim was closed.
In late 2014, Mr G reported further recent subsidence to UKI. He said to UKI that the
property shouldve been underpinned in 2008 so this second instance could have been
avoided. UKI accepted the claim. It said this instance of subsidence was the result of clay
shrinkage exacerbated by vegetation. The removal of a number of nearby trees was
recommended by UKIs arborist. The trees recommended for removal were owned by the
local authority. Drainage defects were also identified but not thought to be connected to the
movement.
The local authority didnt remove the trees, so UKI began considering whether to underpin
the property. In May 2017, it was felt some works to the drains were needed to stabilise the
property as multiple drainage defects were discovered. UKI also noted that the monitoring of
the house it had been undertaking hadnt been accurate because itd been placed near the
drainage issue.
Mr G complained to UKI in July 2017. UKI looked into the complaint and paid him
compensation of £2,000. In October 2017, UKI told Mr G that once the drainage works were
done more monitoring for another 12 months would be required. Of the damaged drainage
runs identified, UKI confirmed in February 2018 that only one was the responsibility of Mr G
with another 4 being the responsibility of the local water authority. The local water authority
was contacted about them.
Drain repairs to Mr Gs drain run were completed in May 2018. In June 2018, Mr G
complained to UKI again about delays with the claim and poor service. UKI upheld the
complaint and paid Mr G compensation of £800. Mr G complained again in November 2018
about the delays. UKI contacted its specialist contractor asking for full details of causation
and a suggested remedial scheme. UKI again suggested underpinning may be necessary if
the local authority wouldnt remove the trees. The monitoring confirmed that the house was
still moving. UKI instructed its subsidence contractor to put the local authority on notice.
Mr G had obtained his own surveyors report in the meantime that said the trees shouldve
been removed in 2015 and as they werent, underpinning was necessary.
In February 2019, it came to UKIs attention that its contractor hadnt instructed solicitors to
put the local authority on notice in November 2018. Notice was given, giving the local
authority two months to remove the trees.
Mr G told UKI in February 2019 that he was losing rent on the property and had suffered
other consequential losses. He said he was compiling a list which he would present to UKI at
the end of the claim. Following a further complaint from Mr G, UKI paid him £400 in
compensation in March 2019 for the delay in putting the local authority on notice. UKIs
contractor confirmed to Mr G that if the trees hadnt been removed by early April 2019 it
would move to underpin. UKI told Mr G that it would consider his consequential losses in
principal providing they were property substantiated.
The trees werent removed so an underpinning scheme was proposed. Contractors were
contacted and there were further delays. In August 2019 UKIs contractor sent an update to
Mr G to say the best time to underpin was in the Autumn and the proposed starting date was
set for October. UKI invited Mr G to submit his loss of rent claim but he declined to do so
until all the works were completed in full.
There were further delays and the start date for the works was pushed back to the start of
December 2019. Mr G contacted UKI in January 2020 to complain that thered been no
progress. On checking with its subsidence contractor, UKI discovered that the trial pit results
were still to be reviewed. The subsidence contractor informed UKI that the piling supplier
had let it down. All the equipment for the works was then off hired and replacement piles
were to be imported which would take a further 21 days.
Mr G complained again about the delays. At the end of January 2020, UKIs subsidence
contractor confirmed that the piling works had been finished and that another contractor now
had the schedule of works for the superstructure works but that this needed updating as
further elements to the repair had been identified. A further scheduling survey was fixed for
early February 2020. The revised schedule of works was provided to Mr G at the end of
February 2020 and Mr G told UKI at the end of March that he was meeting with his own
surveyor to review it.
Mr Gs surveyor said the front, main gable and rear elevations needed to be rebuilt to comply
with building regulation guidelines. UKI asked its subsidence contractor to confirm if the
cause of movement in 2008 and 2014 was the same and, if it was, it would waive the
excess. UKI chased the contractor for a response and asked the engineer to comment on
the amount of historic distortion/extent of insurers liability compared with Mr Gs demands.
Mr G contacted UKI in late June 2020 to say hed not heard from the subsidence contractor.
In July 2020, the property was broken into and vandalised (it being vacant since the tenants
moved out in 2014). In July 2020 a site meeting was proposed to discuss the superstructure
schedule of works and agree its contents. Following a meeting in early August 2020, some
repairs started in October 2020 despite Mr G not being provided with an updated schedule of
works which hed been chasing for over two and half months.
Mr G told UKI in October 2020 that promises by its various contractors werent being kept
and his losses were growing. Mr G continued to chase contractors and UKI through to the
end of 2020, telling UKI in mid-December that its subsidence contractor wasnt engaging.
UKI reassured Mr G that it was trying to progress repairs.
In January 2021, Mr G told UKI that he was now going to pursue an interim consequential
loss claim with final losses to follow when the works were completed. Mr G emailed UKI with
a schedule of his losses which he assessed to total £57,000. UKIs subsidence contractor
agreed that the claim had been lengthy but denied negligence. It said it didnt think any
further payments were due to Mr G as hed already had £2,800 in compensation. UKI asked
the subsidence contractor when it thought the house became uninhabitable and when Mr G
moved out so it could try and work out what he may be due. The subsidence contractors
engineer responded to say the bathroom was unusable from September 2017 so heconsidered the house to be uninhabitable from then. The subsidence contractor said it
thought the property became unlettable in July 2020 when it was vandalised.
UKI told the subsidence contractor that it was considering paying Mr G 36 months-worth of
lost rent (from November 2017). The contractor replied to say it didnt think thered been any
extraordinary delays and, if there had, compensation had been paid and it asked UKI what
evidence Mr G had provided to show hed tried to rent it.
The contractor engaged to do the superstructure repairs attended in mid-February 2021. At
the same time, Mr G made a complaint to this service. He said he was complaining about
the 2008 repair and UKIs failure then to carry out any subsurface stabilisation works in
contrast to the underpinning his own engineer had recommended. Mr G said he thought the
failure to underpin in 2008 had led to further damage in 2014 which he considered to be a
continuation of the same claim. Mr G said he thought that UKI should be responsible for the
financial impact of the second claim in 2014. He also complained about the mismanagement
of, and extensive delays associated with, the second claim.
Mr G told us hed been unable to re-mortgage during this period which had cost him over
£200 a month. He also said hed wanted to rent the property out but had been unable to do
so because of the claim. Mr G said he wanted UKI to accept liability for the mishandling of
his claim.
UKI issued its final response at the end of March 2021 which, it said, was a review of Mr Gs
complaint since his last complaint had been closed in March 2020. UKI noted that there were
two elements to Mr Gs complaint namely the way in which the claim had been handled and
the consequential losses he said UKI had caused him.
UKI accepted that the claim had been subject to delay and that communication with Mr G
had been poor. With regard to Mr Gs £57,000 claim for consequential losses it noted that
the 2008 claim was the result of consolidation and that repairs were completed, and the
claim closed, in 2009. It said in the 5 years between that claim and the 2014 one, vegetation
wouldve continued to grow and seek moisture from the ground, causing subsidence. It said
that whilst it was responsible for repairing the 2008 damage, it wasnt responsible for
undertaking preventative work to negate future risk. So, it said, it hadnt acted negligently
and that a second claim shouldve been logged in 2014 and a second excess taken. But, it
said given the time that had passed it was waiving the requirement for Mr G to pay the
excess.
With regard to Mr Gs claim for consequential loss, UKI said that he hadnt provided
sufficient evidence to date to prove hed suffered it. It said there were a number of factors
that could impact his ability to re-mortgage and there was no way of knowing at what rate he
wouldve been able to do so. With regard to his claim for loss of rent, it said there was no
evidence that the property was marketed for rental, no evidence about why Mr G had been
unable to source a tenant or how long hed attempted to do so. It also said itd taken him
until November 2020 to provide a breakdown of the costs he was claiming yet there had
been three complaints made since 2014 and a total of £3,400 paid in compensation which,
UKI thought, was fair compensation for the handling of Mr Gs complaint. So UKI said it
wouldnt be covering Mr Gs consequential losses.
For the additional failings since March 2020 UKI issued Mr G with a further £500 in
compensation bringing the total paid to £3,900. It said that is noted that hed cashed none of
the previous cheques hed been sent so it was issuing a new one for this amount.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She
said that she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to allow her to conclude that UKI hadcarried out poor repairs in 2008. And she said Mr G had a duty to mitigate his losses so it
was unclear why hed not made a claim for consequential loss earlier on in the claim. Our
investigator also said that she couldnt see that the property had been uninhabitable for a
long period of time so it wasnt clear why Mr G hadnt been able to rent it out nor was there
any proof that hed had any mortgage applications declined. So, our investigator said, based
on the limited evidence Mr G had provided, she wasnt persuaded UKI needed to
compensate him for the consequential losses he was claiming. Finally, our investigator
thought the compensation UKI had paid  of £500  was fair.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators findings. He said that UKI had told him that it agreed,
in principle, that his consequential losses should be covered. He also said that he thought
that the second claim was an extension of the first and that the first was due to clay
shrinkage not consolidation settlement which, he said, could be evidenced. Mr G said that
UKI shouldve moved far quicker than it did after 2014 to stabilise the property and that the
compensation hed received was insufficient. And, he said, UKI was wrong, given the
evidence found in 2008 that the property had also suffered historical subsidence, that no
subsurface stabilisation had been carried out at that time.
Mr G went on to say that if the 2014 claim was new then UKI wouldve insisted that a second
excess was paid. He said that he hadnt made a claim for his consequential losses before
2020 because he hadnt realised it was a possibility before that point. He also said the
property had been in a state of disrepair since 2014 which made it impossible to rent or
market for sale. He mentioned that UKIs subsidence contractors had removed internal
plasterwork to reveal the extent of the cracking and that theyd excavated the front and back
gardens in 2016 to access the drains which further contributed to it being unable to be
rented or sold.
Mr G then went on to say that the £57,000 claim for consequential loss that hed made to
UKI was very much an interim one and that itd always been his intention to make a final
claim once the claim was finally closed. Mr G said hed reviewed what he had claimed and
had withdrawn:
his claim for £1000 for engaging his own contractors to repair superficial cracks prior to 
2014 due to not being able to locate the necessary substantiation;
his claim for financial loss as a result of being unable to re-mortgage;
his claim for utility costs because the payments hed made had been quite small due to 
the unoccupancy of the property;
his claim for council tax payments since 2014  because his local council had agreed he 
could be rebated for all payments made.
So, he said his claim for consequential loss now included only loss of rent and his surveyors
fees (about £1,500) which came to about £49,000. In support of his loss of rent claim, Mr G
provided a copy of a tenancy agreement from 2014 showing that the property had been
rented out in the six months prior to the claim being made.
Mr G also provided a copy of an email chain between him and UKI in which the
consequential loss issue had been discussed.
Our investigator asked UKI to comment on what Mr G had said and on the evidence hed
provided. It said it found it questionable that Mr G had only now found a copy of the 2014
tenancy agreement and that it was interesting that the agreement came to an end on the
very date Mr G made the second subsidence claim in 2014. UKI said that at the time he
made the second claim the house wasnt un-rentable and he couldve replaced the outgoing
tenant with a new one. So, it said, Mr G had failed to mitigate his loss. UKI didnt thinkanything Mr G had said or provided altered what our investigator had concluded. Finally, it
said, it hadnt been notified by Mr G that he was renting the property out so he was fortunate
itd agreed to deal with the second subsidence claim at all.
Our investigator told Mr G that he wasnt persuaded by what hed said to change her mind
either. Mr G replied to say that 7 years to finalise the repairs was unreasonable and that UKI
should be responsible for the significant financial impact on him. He said hed been unable to
mitigate his losses because works were constantly ongoing and hed been advised by UKIs
structural engineer not to repair anything. So he said he was left with a property incapable of
rental or sale. Mr G referred to his policy terms which, he said, included a term for loss of
rent which, he believed, hed adequately substantiated.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision earlier this month 
recommending the complaint be upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
As Ive set out above, I know that Mr G has raised numerous complaints with UKI. As a
service we can only consider a complaint if it has been brought to us within six months of the
date of the final response letter. Mr G wouldve been provided with a number of final
response letters over the years but has only chosen to contact this service now.
The issues that formed part of Mr Gs previous complaints are now out of time for
consideration by this serviced. So this decision is only focused on the issues Mr G
complained about to UKI earlier this year and which it responded to in its final response
letter sent in March 2021. I have to decide whether UKI treated Mr G fairly and reasonably
by taking all the circumstances into account.
complaint about UKI handling of the claim and not underpinning the property in 2008
Unfortunately for Mr G there isnt much information available about the 2008 claim. Thats
because of regulations on record keeping. A business doesnt have to retain records after a
certain passage of time. But I note that Mr G is unhappy about how his claim has been dealt
with in 2014 and, as part of that, that there were no subsurface repairs in 2008/2009 which,
presumably, wouldve meant the second claim would never have arisen at all.
I know that Mr G appointed his own surveyor in 2008 who, he says, recommended then that
the property was underpinned. From what little information there is from UKI, it seems it
didnt underpin the property then because it didnt feel it was necessary in order to effect a
lasting repair. In 2014, Mr Gs surveyor said that the cause of the new subsidence was
present in 2008.
Unfortunately there simply isnt enough information available about the 2008 claim that
would allow me to reasonably conclude that UKI had carried out an inadequate repair, that
wasnt lasting, and which consequently was the cause of the 2014 claim. So, whilst I
appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling about this issue, I cant fairly say that UKI shouldve
done something more to repair the property in 2008.
Mr Gs claim for consequential losses
Since our investigator issued her findings, Mr G has refined his consequential loss claim
such that it now includes only his claim for lost rent and the fees he has had to pay his
surveyor during the course of the second claim. So my consideration of his claim will be
confined to these two issues only.
Ill consider Mr G consequential loss claim for lost rent first. Mr Gs policy contains the
following terms:Section 1  Buildings insurance
A  Loss or damage
We will pay for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by the following:
9 Subsidence
B  Extra Cover
7 Alternative accommodation and rent
If your home is not fit to be lived in after damage covered under section 1, we will pay the
following: 
b) if you rent out your home, the rent you would have received but lost.
We will not pay more than £25,000 in total.
So, the policy will indemnify the policyholder for rent they wouldve received but lost as a
result of loss or damage caused by one of the policy perils, of which subsidence is one.
UKIs engineer has stated that the bathroom in the house was unusable from September
2017 so he considered the property to be uninhabitable from that point. Mr G has told us that
the repairs have finally just been completed in the last week or so. So, its fair to say that the
property was uninhabitable as a result of subsidence from September 2017 up to, and
including, November 2021. I make that a period of 51 months. The policy provides cover in
such circumstances.
But its also clear to me  as Ive set out above  that this was a claim that was beset by
mismanagement by UKIs specialist subsidence contractors from the start. And, its
reasonable to conclude, that mismanagement caused avoidable delays to the handling of
the claim. I include in that assessment that the claim was mismanaged in the following ways:
the misdiagnosis of the drainage defects and the effect they were having on the property;
the incorrect placement of the monitoring so that inaccurate  and ultimately unusable  
readings were given. Monitoring had to start again;
the failure to instruct solicitors to pursue the local authority;
the delay in reviewing the trial pit results;
repeated delays, poor communication and unkept promises.
I think that from the time the claim was lodged in November 2014, this is a claim that should,
realistically, have been capable of being resolved within about two and a half years. I dont
think taking 7 years to resolve the claim was reasonable in all the circumstances. If the claim
had been proactively managed, it should, in my view, have been completed by May 2017.
That means the claim was avoidably delayed for a further four and a half years.
Mr G has provided a copy of the tenancy agreement for the tenants who were living in the
property when the subsidence manifested itself in 2014 and I can see that they were paying
him £550 per month in rent. The above clause Ive cited from the policy terms though applies
only when the property is uninhabitable/not fit to be lived it. So, whilst I accept that Mr G
believes the property was unrentable due to its aesthetic appearance from 2014, thats not
the same as the property being rendered uninhabitable. Theres no suggestion that there
were no cooking or washing facilities before September 2017; indeed, that is the date that
UKIs engineer said the property was, in his view, uninhabitable.
But I do think the property shouldve been repaired by May 2017. That it wasnt, is no fault of
Mr Gs. Mr G says hes very recently marketed it for sale and has an interested buyer. That
being the case, its reasonable to think he wouldve marketed or rented it earlier if he 
couldve done so. I dont find it unreasonable that theres no evidence that Mr G was trying to 
rent the property out after his tenants left in 2014. And Im not requiring UKI should compensate him for the fact the property wasnt let for the first two and a half years. But I do 
think it needs to compensate him for his losses from May 2017 onwards.
So in addition to the 51 months the property was uninhabitable, I think there is a period of a
further 4 months (from May 2017 to August 2017 inclusive) in which Mr G lost rent on the
property as a result of the poor handling of his claim. Mr G has been able to show he had
tenants in the property when the claim arose and that he took steps immediately it was
repaired to mitigate his losses by selling it. That he didnt seek alternative tenants in the
intervening period isnt, in the circumstances, unreasonable. Ive seen the photographs and
agree that the property would look an unattractive prospect for tenants. That theres no
evidence that Mr G had tried to source a replacement is hardly surprising given the condition
of the property.
And, in any event, Im not asking UKI to compensate Mr G for the first two and half years of
the claim. Im asking it to do so from the point I think its reasonable to assume the claim
shouldve been resolved by and wasnt. And all but 4 months of that period the property  in
the opinion of its own engineer  was uninhabitable. That being the case, the policy provides
cover for lost rent and should, therefore, indemnify Mr G accordingly.
I appreciate that theres a policy limit for lost rent claims but I dont consider it fair or
reasonable  where the delay is caused by UKI or its agents  for it to apply the limit if the
loss exceeds it. I think, in the circumstances UKI should pay Mr G for a total of 55 months
lost rent at the rate he was letting the property when the claim arose, namely £550 per
month.
As Mr G has been without access to the rental income from the property, UKI should pay
him interest* at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on the date each payment
wouldve been due until the date it settles my award. And the rent is something UKI would
always have had to pay (given the policy liability for it) yet its had the benefit of being able to
retain the money. So, for these reasons, I think its reasonable that interest is paid.
I can see that UKI has compensated Mr G during the course of his claim on numerous
occasions for the delays hes been caused and the poor service hes been received. I think
that the compensation Mr G has received from UKI in the last 7 years is fair and reasonable
and in line with this services general approach to compensation.
Mr G has also claimed for the fees he had to pay his own surveyor. He says these are
around £1,500. Subject to him providing UKI with the necessary copy invoices, I intend to
require UKI to reimburse Mr G for the fees he incurred in instructing his own surveyor and to
pay him interest on them from the date he paid the invoices to the date it settles my award. I
can see that Mr Gs surveyor identified the need to remove the trees and underpin the
property early in the claim and that he later recommended certain elevations were rebuilt as
well.
UKI has said it took Mr G until November 2020 to provide a breakdown of the consequential
losses he was claiming for. But I dont think there was anything wrong with that. Mr G had
told UKI some 21 months earlier  in February 2019 that the delays were costing him
money. And he said then that he would present his claim for consequential loss in full once
the claim was completed. I dont think that was unreasonable because it wasnt until the
claim was completed that Mr G would be able to calculate what they would be. UKI didnt
object at that time and when pushed by UKI in late 2020 to set them, he said that the figures
presented werent final.
Both UKI and Mr G replied to say they agreed with my provisional findings. Mr G also sent 
us copies of his surveyors invoices. The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, my provisional findings now form 
part of this, my final decision. 
Mr G has forwarded his surveyors invoices to us  there are 5 in all and I can see he paid 
£1,849.50. He should now forward these to UKI as well.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr G I require UKI to do the following: 
pay Mr G £550 per month for 55 months for the lost rent;
pay Mr Gs surveyors fees upon receipt of the necessary copy invoices;
pay interest on each rental payment from the date it was due (commencing May 2017 
through to November 2021) until the date it settles my award at this services usual rate 
of 8% simple per year;
pay interest on the surveyors fees from the date Mr G paid the surveyor to the date it 
settles my award.
* If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be
provided by U K Insurance Limited to Mr G for HMRC purposes.
My final decision
  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to take the 
steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman