DRN-1344675
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that a field agent acting on behalf of Ascent Performance 
Group Limited (Ascent) breached the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by 
discussing their mortgage arrears in front of their neighbours. 
To put matters right, Mr and Mrs H want Ascent to admit that this happened.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with a third party lender, and which is administered by 
Ascent. Unfortunately Mr and Mrs H had fallen behind with their payments and on 
27 September 2019 Ascents field agent visited the property to discuss the situation.
On 2 October 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to Ascent. They say that the field agent failed 
to run through any type of security and only asked for Mr Hs name. The agent also said that 
he wanted to discuss mortgage arrears, whilst standing on the doorstep and in front of the 
neighbours.
Ascent say that the field agent spoke to Mr H on 27 September 2019, but Mr H refused to 
answer security questions and did not want to discuss anything with the agent, and so the 
agent left. Ascent says that the agent has confirmed that mortgage arrears werent 
mentioned, and that he didnt see any neighbours close by.
Dissatisfied with Ascents response, Mr and Mrs H complained to us. An investigator looked 
at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded that the agent had 
discussed mortgage arrears.
Mr H, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigators findings. 
He doesnt understand why we can say that a company that has blatantly breached data 
protection has done nothing wrong. 
Mr H also takes exception to the investigator using the balance of probabilities to reach his 
outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note a separate complaint was made against the lender, because the letter it sent informing 
Mr and Mrs H of the field agents visit arrived after he had called at the property. I 
understand that complaint has now been resolved.
As far as Ascent is concerned, I will begin by explaining that I have no power to decide 
whether or not there has been a breach of the GDPR. Only the Information Commissioner 
can determine if the GDPR has been breached. But I can look at the customer service 
provided by Ascents field agent.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the available evidence. This is known as the 
balance of probabilities. 
Whilst I accept Mr H is unhappy about a conclusion being reached using the balance of 
probabilities, it is the way in which we (and the courts) are required to decide cases where 
there are two competing versions of events. 
There are two contradictory accounts of what happened. 
On the one hand, Mr and Mrs H say that on 27 September 2019 the field agent discussed 
their mortgage arrears within earshot of their neighbours.
On the other hand, there is the report the field agent completed on 1 October 2019, in which 
he says that Mr H was very aggressive towards him. The agent says Mr H told him that he 
did not want or need Ascents help, preferring to deal direct with the lender. 
There is no evidence from any neighbour who Mr and Mrs H claim overheard the agent 
discussing mortgage arrears on the doorstep.
The field agents report was prepared before Mr and Mrs H complained to Ascent on 
2 October 2019. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs H probably dont accept that and believe it was 
prepared later to support Ascents position. But I think it is more likely than not that the 
document was prepared contemporaneously, that is, on the date shown on the document.
Ascent has explained that field agents are trained to verify the identity of the person theyre 
speaking to first, before discussing anything relating to the account. The information in the 
field agents report supports Ascents position, which is that Mr H wasnt prepared to engage 
and was unwilling to pass security, and so nothing substantive was discussed.
Taking everything into account, and on the balance of probabilities, the available evidence 
doesnt persuade me that Ascents agent discussed mortgage arrears in front of Mr and 
Mrs Hs neighbours. 
The deciding factor for me is the report  which I am satisfied was prepared before the 
complaint was made - which lends credence to Ascents position.
So in all the circumstances, the evidence presented by Ascent is more persuasive.
To be clear, I am not saying that Mr and Mrs H are being untruthful, but Im unable to uphold 
the complaint because there is insufficient evidence to corroborate what Mr and Mrs H have 
said. There is, however, evidence to support what Ascent has told us.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for. I dont underestimate their 
strength of feeling about this matter. But they are still free to complain to the Information 
Commissioner if they believe there has been a data breach by Ascents agent. They can find 
contact details for the Information Commissioner online.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman