DRN-4396838
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) provided misleading information about 
his late daughters pension fund and took far longer than necessary to process the death 
claim.
Mr T would now like SWL to honour the higher, original amount that he says SWL told him 
his daughters pension was worth.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr T contacted SWL to inform them of the death of his daughter the 
previous month. At the same time, Mr T emailed the documentary evidence that SWL asked 
for to support the start of the claim process. After not hearing anything back from SWL, he 
chased them on a number of occasions in both September and October 2022.
In October 2022, SWL issued a letter to Mr T, stating that the value of his late-daughters 
pension was worth £4,304. Mr T then completed the appropriate forms and submitted them 
to SWL. On 18 November 2022, SWL wrote to Mr T, explaining that his claim had been 
accepted  they then issued a cheque to him for £705.
In January 2023, Mr T contacted SWL to try and understand why theyd sent £3,600 less 
than theyd originally explained that the pension was worth. After not receiving a response 
after two weeks, Mr T decided to formally complain to SWL. In summary, he explained that 
he was disappointed with the length of time that SWL had taken to process the claim 
paperwork and, more importantly, concerned that SWL had sent £3,600 less than expected.
After reviewing Mr Ts complaint, SWL wrote back to him in March 2023, explaining that the 
difference in amount between the first and second letters was a consequence of human 
error. They also said, in summary, that they were sorry for the trouble that theyd caused and 
would send Mr T a cheque for £1,000 which, they felt, recognised the serious impact that the 
mistake had had on him.
Mr T was unhappy with SWLs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he wanted SWL to honour the £4,304 that theyd originally confirmed 
in writing to him that his late daughters pension was worth.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that SWL had 
treated Mr T fairly and didnt think it reasonable to instruct them to pay him the £4,304, 
because it was an amount that he was never entitled to.
Mr T, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that this 
service should instruct SWL to pay the higher amount as it would act as a deterrent to 
ensure that they didnt repeat the issue with other customers in the future. He went on to say 
that he didnt think that the £1,000 SWL had offered reflected the significance of the trouble 
that theyd caused him because it didnt take account of the amount of times hed needed to 
continually chase them by telephone and email.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr T had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy, 
Mr T then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wanted to start by extending my sincerest sympathies and condolences to Mr T following 
the loss of his daughter. I can only imagine how upsetting and troubling he must have found 
these events in light of his daughters death.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr T has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all of the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mr Ts 
concern that SWL gave him an incorrect value for his daughters pension which he feels that 
they should now honour. Having carefully considered both sets of submissions, whilst Im 
upholding Mr Ts complaint, I wont be asking SWL to take any further action beyond what 
theyve already proposed and thats largely for the same reasons that our Investigator has 
set out. Im mindful that Mr T will likely be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why 
below.
As the timeline on this complaint is well known to both parties, I dont intend to repeat that 
here as there doesnt appear to be any dispute about what happened and when. Theres no 
doubt in this case that SWL took longer than they needed to in processing the claim 
following the death of Mr Ts daughter and providing him with an incorrect pension valuation 
 theyve admitted as much. And, I dont doubt for a moment how disheartening Mr T must 
have found that. Mr T says that he found the entire end to end process of dealing with SWL 
incredibly upsetting, particularly when he was grieving the loss of his daughter.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr T has told this service about the impact that this 
mistake has had on him. I also want to acknowledge that I fully appreciate how upsetting this 
must have been for him. So, given that theres no question that SWL gave Mr T incorrect 
information, Ive also carefully thought about how theyve tried to put things right for him. 
Theres no doubt that SWL have caused Mr T trouble and upset; theyve acknowledged this 
within their resolution letter to him and theyve paid him £1,000. Mr T, however, doesnt feel 
thats enough in light of the impact that the incorrect information had on him. Hed like SWL 
to honour the £4,304, which they originally advised him that his daughters pension was 
worth. Whilst Im mindful that Mr T will almost certainly be disappointed, I dont agree.
When mistakes occur, wed ordinarily expect businesses to place the consumer back in to 
the same, or as close as possible to the position, that they wouldve been in had the error 
not occurred. In short, what that means is, wed ask them to work out what the consumers 
pension pot wouldve been worth had it not been for the mistake and then instruct the firm to 
put that right. Importantly though, SWL have already put the mistake right  they identified 
the error that they made (which was informing Mr T of the incorrect value) and then advised him of the correct fund value. However, as his daughter never had a pension fund valued at 
£4,304, I wouldnt expect SWL to recompense him for something that she never owned.
I think that SWL have recognised the significance of their error and have tried to put things 
right with Mr T. But, I cant instruct SWL to give Mr T something that was not there in the first 
place. Im therefore of the view that the payment of £1,000 acknowledges the seriousness of 
the mistake and is fair in all of the circumstances but is also consistent with what this service 
wouldve awarded Mr T, had SWL not already offered to do so.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited have already offered to pay Mr T £1,000 for the trouble and upset 
that they caused, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay Mr T £1,000, if theyve not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman