The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out by Mrs F and Mr F in June 
1999 during a meeting whilst they were arranging their mortgage. The policy covered Mr F 
only and he was covered against accidents, unemployment and sickness.
Mrs F and Mr F say MPPI was a condition of having the mortgage. They say it was sold to 
them as a package to be taken as a whole. They also add that no exclusions were explained 
at the point of sale. They say Mr F was not eligible to claim benefit. They think the policy was 
mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs F and Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs F and Mr Fs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs F and Mr Fs complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mrs F and Mr F say Mr F wasnt eligible to claim benefit on the policy because he
had only been working in his employment for a short period of time and there was a
term in the policy that stated you had to be continuously employed for a longer period
of time than he had, in order to claim benefit. So I looked into this.
I can see that Mrs F and Mr F have pointed to a statement in a declaration form that
states I am working at least 16 hours per week and have been so continuously in the
last 12 months  and also a term within the policy summary that says  you must have
been working contin
uously for 6 months immediately before the start date . To clarify
the first is a state
ment on a declaration form and part of Santanders sales
documents whereas the second statement is a term within the policy document. If Mr
F needed to make a claim for benefit, the terms of the policy document would be
applicable to this. So with this being the case, I have looked further into this term and
considered what this would have meant for Mr F.
DRN-1636137 
The term within the policy summary states you must have been working 
continuously for 6 months immediately before the start date. If you have not been 
working continuously for this period you may still apply for cover. However you will 
not qualify for any benefit until you have been working continuously for at least 6 
months.
 
Mr F started his new employment on 1 April 1999. The policy started on 11 August 
1999, so at this stage Mr F had been in continuous employment for around 4 months. 
Mr F has recently told our service that he held 1 month full and 2 months half sick 
pay at that time along with £11000 savings (albeit he and Mrs F say some of this was 
earmarked for a house deposit.) When I consider Mr Fs circumstances at the time, I 
can see that although he would have had to wait for around 2 months before he 
could make a claim for benefit, he would have had full sick pay for a month and half 
pay for the remaining month along with some savings that he could rely on. So when 
I consider this, I dont think his circumstances would have made the policy unsuitable 
for him, at least not enough that it would have put him and Mrs F off from having the 
cover it provided on what would have been a long term financial commitment. 
 
Ive also looked into whether Mrs F and Mr F were given a choice to have the MPPI 
policy. Mrs F and Mr F say they were told having MPPI was a condition of having the 
mortgage in the meeting, and it was a package to be taken as a whole. 
 
Mrs F and Mr F have not been detailed in their recollections of the meeting when 
they were sold MPPI although this is entirely understandable considering the many 
years that have passed. So I have also looked at the sales documentation that was 
used in the meeting at the time to give me an idea as to what more likely than not 
happened. I have been able to see a separate MPPI application. I can see on this 
form that MPPI has been presented as optional. I can also see that Mr F has signed 
it. So although I cant be sure what was said between the parties within the meeting, I 
am persuaded after seeing this form that Mrs F and Mr F were given a choice to have 
MPPI and they agreed to it.
 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs F and 
Mr F or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the information provided and 
also taking into consideration what the parties have said, and what I know of 
Santander sales during this time, I think advice was given.
 
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs F and 
Mr F. I say this after considering Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale (as the sole 
policy holder). Because, although Mr F may have had 1 month full and 2 months half 
sick pay at the time of sale that he could have used and savings, the MPPI policy 
would have paid out in addition to his means and for longer. Having the policy in 
place would mean Mr F could use any provisions he may have had to cover other 
expenses. 
 Mr F was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as, for example, those that affect self employed people or policy holders with 
pre-existing medical conditions. It is unlikely Mr F needed better advice or information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations and if he had received clear information 
on these terms I dont think it would have put him off for the reasons I have already 
given. So I am persuaded the policy was suitable for him.
 
I am not sure if Santander gave Mrs F and Mr F clear information about the costs of 
the policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mrs F and Mr F would have done anything 
differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable.
 
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make, but based on what I have, I do not 
think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs F and Mr F paid on the policy  and whether 
Santander treated them unfairly. 
 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F and Mr F because: 
 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F and Mr F about that. Because Santander 
didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Mrs F and Mr F say the compensation they received with regards to commission and profit 
share should have been a higher amount. Santander should make contact with Mrs F and 
Mr F and give a further explanation as to how it worked out their compensation with regards 
to this and provide a detailed breakdown, so Mrs F and Mr F can understand how this has 
been calculated. If Mrs F and Mr F have any further concerns about this they can make a 
complaint about this separately.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs F and Mr F.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs F and Mr F any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20July2020.Mark Richardson
Ombudsman