DRN-4202458
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) promoted 
the Woodford Income Focus Fund (WIFF) on its Wealth 50 list, and other forms of literature, 
until the day it was suspended despite its poor performance. He also complains that he was 
unable to sell his holdings before the fund was suspended. 
Mr H says he has lost money in this investment and would like HL to compensate him for it. 
What happened
Mr H had a Stocks and Shares ISA with HLAM and, in April 2017 and in October 2018, he 
bought units in the WIFF. At the time his account was execution-only which meant that 
HLAM was responsible for giving effect to his investment decisions, but it had no obligation 
to advise him or manage his investments for him. 
In February and June 2020, Mr H complained about HLAMs promotion of the WIFF. In 
short, he complained that HLAM hadnt properly monitored the performance of the WIFF, 
and he had been unable to sell prior to suspension. He said he had now lost a significant 
amount of money. 
HLAM looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary, it said that it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said that its belief that the WIFF would perform well in the future was 
properly held, but that its Wealth lists made no guarantees. It also explained that Mr H had 
chosen to hold on to his holding in the WIFF after 4 June 2019 when he had been notified 
that it had been removed from the Wealth list. It said that at the time of Mr Hs complaint the 
WIFF was temporarily suspended due to the change in fund manager, but that suspension 
would be lifted shortly (which it was). 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said:
HLAM needed to ensure its communications to Mr H were fair, clear and not 
misleading, and this included its communications about the WIFF. 
The evidence showed that HLAM continued to back the WIFF on the basis of the 
fund managers track record, which is what the promotional material was mainly 
focused on. 
She thought the communications from HLAM were fair, clear and not misleading. 
Furthermore, she considered that while it was reasonable for Mr H to rely on HLAMs 
communications, it was clear that the decision to invest was his alone. She felt that 
Mr H had been given a balanced picture of the investment, and it was his choice to 
invest in it and then retain that investment. 
She noted that Mr H had made reference to the suspension of the WIFF, but had 
confused this with the WEIF. She noted that Mr H did not have any holdings in the 
WEIF, and the WIFF was only temporarily suspended  and at the time of his 
complaint, Mr H had been able to buy and sell shares in the WIFF as normal. She 
noted, however, that the decision to suspend dealing in the WIFF was not something 
HL had any control over. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He provided 
a newspaper article that he said supported his complaint, and reiterated his main complaint 
points. In summary:
HLAM actively promoted WIFF, and given that they were experts in their field and 
focused on wealth, as well as being a well-known and prestigious company, Mr and 
Mrs H trusted it. 
The fact that the WIFF was in HLAMs wealth lists was seen by Mr and Mrs H as a 
long-term investment. 
They queried what corrective actions HLAM undertook when WIFF wasnt 
performing to plan  it appeared to them as if HLAM did not conduct ongoing due 
diligence or research, because the poor performance of Woodfords funds were not 
raising concerns. 
They said that Woodford appeared to change his investment approach and HLAM 
did not appear to pick up on this, or the additional risk that this represented to the 
fund. 
Mr and Mrs H queried what Woodford was telling HLAM about his funds and how 
they were performing to convince HLAM to hand over and entrust its investor funds 
to him
Mr and Mrs H also queried where the minutes of these meetings were and why they 
werent published. They also asked how much HLAM invested in Woodford, and 
when they withdrew their own investments. 
They concluded by saying that Mrs H had received a risk update on another fund, 
which outlined the steps HLAM had taken in terms of assessing its manager, 
process, culture and oversight and risk processes behind that particular fund 
manager. They queried how often HLAM did this, and whether if they had taken 
these steps with Woodford, it wouldve changed their decision to keep his funds on 
its wealth lists. 
HLAM agreed with the investigator but made further points. In summary it said:
While Woodfords track record was relevant in HLAMs assessment of the WIFF and 
why it was included in its Wealth lists, it was by no means the sole factor in HLAMs 
decision-making. 
It said that HLAM included and retained the WIFF on the Wealth Lists because it had 
for a period of time confidence in the fund manager. It said that HLAM took the view 
that WIFF was invested in sound companies. 
It said that it HLAMs internal monitoring and analysis process involves robust 
challenge and scrutiny of qualitative and quantitative factors to test whether the investment team continues to have confidence in the long-term performance potential 
of a fund, and therefore whether to include or retain it on a Wealth List. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr H for his comprehensive and detailed comments which clarify his 
complaint and why he disagreed with the investigator. I can confirm that Ive read all his 
comments, and considered everything he has said and submitted in its entirety. However, 
my decision wont address each and every point he has made, and I hope he doesnt take it 
as a discourtesy that Ive not done so. The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key 
issues and provide my findings, along with my reasons for reaching them. 
As the investigator has noted, the key aspect in this complaint was HLAMs obligation to 
provide information to Mr H that was fair, clear and not misleading. It was not obliged to 
ensure that the investment was suitable for Mr H, nor that it met his needs and objectives  
because thats not the service Mr H had signed up for. 
At the time, the FCAs High Level Principles applied to HLAMs relationship with Mr H  
Principle 7 required it to communicate information [to him] in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading and the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 4.2 required HLAMs financial 
promotions to be fair, clear and not misleading too. 
I understand that Mr H believes he and his wife were misled into investing in the WIFF, and 
most importantly, were not properly alerted by HLAM when there were problems with the 
WIFFs performance. Ive considered this complaint very carefully, notwithstanding my view 
that it wasnt HLAMs responsibility to monitor the investment on their behalf. 
I should say first of all that Im not in fact persuaded that HLAM didnt alert Mr and Mrs H to 
periods of underperformance. Although the November 2017 edition of the Wealth 150 list 
simply noted the fund managers rationale behind the management of the WIFF, the June 
2018 Wealth 150+ report clearly noted that it was his rationale, combined with some stock 
specific disappointments that had held back performance. In November 2018 the Wealth 
150+ report noted that the fund had struggled, but that Woodford was sticking to his 
philosophy.
Mr H didnt disinvest off the back of this commentary. And whilst I accept that it was 
reasonable for him to place some weight on what HLAM was telling him, including its belief 
that the WIFF remained a good long-term investment, Im not persuaded it was reasonable, 
in the particular circumstances of this case, for Mr H to base his investment decisions solely 
on this commentary. And even if he did, its clear to me that he did so fully knowing that 
WIFF was not performing to HLAMs expectations  so he was informed by HLAM that it was 
underperforming. Im not persuaded that the mere presence of the WIFF on the Wealth 150+ 
list ought to have overridden the commentary that HLAM actually provided on the WIFF 
within that list. 
Furthermore, its clear to me that Mr H was not solely reliant on HLAMs communications 
when deciding to remain invested  because when he was notified in June 2019 that the 
WIFF had been removed from the Wealth list, he didnt sell his holdings. The WIFF wasnt 
suspended at that point, only the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) was, so Mr H 
couldve sold his holdings but chose not to. In fact, the WIFF wasnt suspended until October 2019 when the fund manager changed  
and it was reopened in February 2020. 
I understand the profound disappointment that Mr H has experienced from the losses his 
investment has suffered, and I do understand why, with hindsight, he believes HLAM ought 
to have been more reticent to promote the WIFF the way it did. But HLAM didnt have the 
benefit of hindsight when it included the WIFF on its wealth lists  and in my view, it provided 
information to Mr H that allowed him to make his own investment decisions, with the firm 
understanding that there were no guarantees, and that all investments carry some risk.
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded the losses Mr H has suffered are attributable to 
something HLAM did or didnt do. Im satisfied Mr Hs losses were instead caused by the 
performance of the investment which is something HLAM had no control over.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman