DRN-1869608
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc decided not to open a bank account for him, but 
didn't tell him its decision.
What happened
Mr K applied for an HSBC current account in September 2018. The application carried on 
until December 2018, when HSBC decided not to open an account for Mr K. But he said it 
didnt tell him that. Mr K said he carried on trying to contact HSBC for some time after this. In 
February, he opened an account elsewhere. 
Mr K asked HSBC again about the account in August 2019. It said then that his local branch 
had been told in December 2018 that it wasnt going to open an account for him. It wouldnt 
change its mind about that. But it said it was sorry that he hadnt been told this at the time. 
So it paid him £50 to say sorry. 
Mr K said HSBC had wasted his time. And hed wanted to exchange some money to pay into 
this account. Without an account to pay into, he hadnt been able to change the money. The 
exchange rate had dropped while he was waiting for HSBC to come back to him, so he lost 
out. He didnt think £50 was enough compensation to make up for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr K had an account 
from February 2019. He thought Mr K wouldve gone back to the bank much sooner if he 
was concerned about this account. And he said Mr K could also have explored opening an 
account elsewhere before he did. He didnt think it was HSBCs fault that the exchange rate 
dropped while it was considering Mr Ks account application. Any loss that Mr K made on the 
exchange rate wasnt directly related to what HSBC did. He said £50 was enough 
compensation for not telling Mr K sooner that HSBC wouldnt open an account for him. 
Mr K said he wasnt able to keep going into a branch of HSBC to find out what was 
happening. He didnt have his own transport, or access to any money. He said the 
application was a time consuming process, involving lots of documentation. And the course 
hes doing is very intensive, and doesnt leave time for visiting banks. He asked if HSBC had 
shown us that he wasnt chasing HSBC for a response. He didnt feel he should have to 
show us he was, because he didnt make the mistake. He felt we were saying he shouldve 
applied to more banks, because one or two might not respond to him. He said we were 
justifying HSBCs unprofessional stance, not helping the affected person. 
Our investigator said a number of things that Mr K had mentioned werent HSBCs fault. It 
was HSBCs fault that it didnt tell Mr K that it had declined his application. But it wasnt 
wrong to turn him down for an account, so a number of the problems Mr K experienced 
would have happened anyway. He still thought HSBC had done enough. 
Mr K wanted our service to ask HSBC if it would consider paying him more. He said if HSBC 
had told him earlier that hed been turned down, he wouldve moved on to the next bank more quickly. He said wed all agreed a mistake was made, but he felt we should discuss 
this with HSBC before closing his complaint. Our investigator explained that were an 
impartial service. Mr K wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so the case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
As Mr K says, both sides are agreed that HSBC made a mistake here. The issue is 
whether what HSBC has already done is enough to make up for that. 
We know Mr K managed to successfully open an account elsewhere in February, but 
he told us that he was seriously inconvenienced in the intervening time. So he thinks 
HSBC should pay substantially more.
Our investigator said if Mr K was having great difficulties managing without a bank 
account, he would expect there to be evidence of Mr K contacting HSBC after 
December, to check whether his account had been opened.
Mr K said we should ask HSBC if it had any proof that he hadnt contacted it 
repeatedly, as he said. We have done that. HSBC says it doesnt have any records of 
him doing so, although it also says that it wouldnt keep such records, as it didnt have 
an account open for him. In that situation I think it is important to consider that Mr K 
hasnt been able to show us call records which demonstrate that he was calling HSBC 
after this. And hes also said that he wouldve expected to find a record of the calls. I 
dont think Im able, on the evidence Ive seen, to conclude that Mr K was chasing 
HSBC for a response to his account application.
That doesnt change the fact that HSBC made a mistake here. It shouldve told Mr K 
its decision. 
Mr K told us a number of things happened after mid-December 2018, including a 
change in the exchange rate which wasnt in his favour. I dont think that HSBC can be 
held responsible for all the difficulties Mr K says he experienced in January and 
February, before he managed to open an account. HSBC didnt have to open an 
account for him, so its not HSBCs fault that he had to make a second application, or 
that the exchange rate dropped in this time. 
But I do think its likely that Mr K couldve acted a little sooner if HSBC had told him its 
decision promptly. So I think its also likely that Mr K was inconvenienced by this 
mistake. And a payment of £50 doesnt seem to me to quite reflect this inconvenience 
to Mr K. So I think HSBC should ensure Mr K receives a total of £100 in compensation 
for this complaint. HSBC can count the £50 it originally offered towards that amount, if 
it has already paid it.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it would accept my decision. Mr K replied to check that I had taken a particular 
point into account.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr K said he hadnt been able to show that he had tried to chase up a decision from the 
bank through phone calls, but he had shown that he had been emailing HSBC to ask what 
was going on, and had received no reply. He wanted to know if this changed the position on 
compensation. 
When I reached the provisional decision above, I was aware that Mr K had emailed HSBC 
on 19 December. I also checked this with HSBC, and it wasnt able to show it had replied. 
So I was aware of this correspondence when I reached my view on compensation. But I 
didn't think there was any record of Mr K continuing to contact HSBC after December, which 
could've further supported what he said about the extent to which he was inconvenienced.
I have considered this issue again now, but Ive not changed my mind. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank Plc must pay Mr K a total of £100 in compensation for 
this complaint. HSBC Bank Plc can count the £50 it originally offered Mr K towards that 
amount, if it has already paid it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman