DRN-3658559
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with a hire purchase agreement taken with BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited  trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (Alphera).
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs L took a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a used car. 
The agreement was taken over 49 months with normal monthly repayments of £459.47 and 
Mrs L paid a deposit of £3,000.
At the end of the agreement, Alphera sent Mrs L an invoice for a balloon payment of £10,275 
for Mrs L to keep the car. Mrs L said she wasnt aware of this balloon payment and thought 
the car had been paid off. 
Mrs L complained to Alphera. It issued its final response in May 2022. It said Mrs L had 
signed a credit agreement which showed the balloon repayment and said she received an 
explanation document which clearly set out the details of the finance.
Mrs L remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said the dealer 
where she took the car and finance was closed and believed it had been investigated by the 
Police for selling fraudulent agreements. She said the situation had put her under financial 
pressure. And she said the signatures on the documents from the time arent hers.
Alphera responded to the complaint and explained a phone call had also taken place with 
the broker, where the details of the agreement were discussed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that he thought it was 
likely Mrs L had seen the finance agreement and agreed to the terms. He thought the 
agreement set out that a balloon payment would be due at the end of the term. So, he 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mrs L remained unhappy. She said the signatures werent hers, and didnt believe the phone 
call had been listened to.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. And Alphera contacted the broker 
who said the phone call isnt available.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mrs Ls complaint against Alphera.
What I need to consider here is whether Mrs L was misled when taking out the finance 
agreement.
Firstly, Ive considered the agreement itself. I can see on the first page under Your 
Repayments that it says Optional Final Repayment: £10,275.00
Ive also seen an Explanation Document from the time. On the front page of under How 
much will you have to pay? it says Optional Final Repayment: £10,275.
So, considering this, Im satisfied Mrs L wouldve known from the paperwork at the time that 
the agreement contained a balloon payment.
Ive gone on to consider that Mrs L says it isnt her signature on the agreement. I should 
point out that it isnt my place to comment on fraud or other criminal issues. But, I have 
thought about whats fair and reasonable here and if I think its likely Mrs L saw the 
paperwork at the time.
Ive looked at Mrs Ls signature on a copy of her driving licence. The signatures on the 
paperwork are similar, but I accept they arent an exact match. But, the signatures vary 
slightly from the agreement, explanation document and direct debit instruction from the time. 
And the signature provided to our service also varies a little from the driving licence. So, Im 
not surprised the signatures on the documents arent a perfect replica from Mrs Ls ID.
Taking everything into account, I think its most likely Mrs L saw the paperwork at the time 
she took the car. It follows I think its most likely she wouldve been aware of the balloon 
payment.
Ive also considered the phone call that Alphera says took place with the broker. Mrs L says 
this call never took place. Unfortunately a recording isnt available, but the broker has given 
an explanation of what it says was discussed. Ultimately, I dont think I need to make a 
finding here about what likely happened nor put any weight on this evidence. I say this as, 
even if this phone call never happened, it wouldnt change my opinion that Mrs L was likely 
aware of the balloon payment.
Mrs L hasnt disputed that finance was set up, the price of the car, the fact the agreement 
had interest on nor the monthly repayments. I appreciate its unlikely she worked this out at 
the time, but I also need to consider whether it was reasonable to assume the costs she 
says she was aware of over the term wouldve paid off the car. Looking at the monthly 
repayments Mrs L says she expected to pay and the deposit, over the term of the agreement 
this wouldve totalled around £3,000 less than the cash price of the car. So I dont think it 
was a reasonable assumption to think it would be paid off.
Finally, Ive also considered that if the agreement was arranged without a balloon payment 
as Mrs L says she thought was the case, the amount due wouldve been spread over the 
term. This wouldve meant her monthly repayments wouldve been significantly higher. So, I 
cant see that Mrs L has lost out financially here whatever happened.
I know Mrs L has also raised some issues with the dealer and made general comments 
about what happened when it closed. But, I need to consider what I think likely happened in 
this specific case. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive carefully thought about everything else Mrs L has said about this complaint. But, having 
done so, I dont think it should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman