DRN-3358720
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the total loss settlement Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited paid when he made a claim under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C made a claim to his insurer Watford Insurance following an accident. Watford deemed 
Mr Cs car a write off and it settled his claim by paying the market value of his car at the time 
of loss. 
Mr C said he declared the value of the car when he bought the policy and this was set out 
under the policy schedule. He said Watford should have paid him this amount. 
Watford said it had acted correctly. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to us. 
Mr C said that Watford incorrectly applied the policy wording. He said it was only entitled to 
settle his claim by paying the market value in the event of loss or damage caused by fire or 
theft. He said the policy wording for damage or loss in the event of an accident didnt say it 
would pay the market value. 
Our Investigator acknowledged that the policy wording didnt include that it could settle Mr 
Cs claim in the event of accidental damage by paying the market value. She saw that this 
was an option Watford could choose in the event of fire damage or theft. And this was the 
option Watford had quoted when replying to Mr Cs complaint. 
However, she explained that the policy wording didnt say it would settle Mr Cs claim by 
paying an agreed value if it wasnt repairable, or the estimated value Mr C gave for his car 
which was £9,500. Having checked the main motor trade guides in line with our approach, 
the Investigator found that the valuation Watford gave for Mr Cs car of £4,800 was within the 
range of the guides. And it had added 20% VAT to the amount as Mr C wasnt VAT 
registered. So she didnt think Watford had acted unreasonably. 
Mr C didnt agree and reiterated the policy wording where the market value settlement is 
only referred to in the event of fire damage or theft. So Mr C wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy with Watford isnt an agreed value policy. Such policies are specialised for 
unique, rare, classic cars. Mr Cs car was a standard car which he used for commercial 
purposes. 
I understand that Mr C says he estimated the cars value at £9,500 because he says it was 
worth more because of what he used it for. 
Ive looked at the policy wording. The key section reads the following in relation to how 
Watford will settle claims: in the event of (a) accidental damage and (b) fire damage or theft:
(a)In the event of loss or damage to Your Vehicle or Accessories resulting from Accident, 
Fire or Theft We will either:
 Repair the damage
 Replace what is lost or damaged beyond economical repair
 Pay the cost of the loss or damage
We can choose which of these actions We will take for any claim We accept.
Settlement
If You are still paying for Your Vehicle under a hire purchase or leasing agreement. We 
may, at Our discretion, and where appropriate, pay a claim for the total loss of Your 
Vehicle to the hire purchase or leasing company.
If You are paying Your insurance premium by instalments and We settle a total loss 
claim under this Section all outstanding premium may be deducted from the claims 
settlement.
(b)For loss of or damage to Your Vehicle caused by Fire or Theft We will either:
 pay for any necessary repairs; or
 pay the Market Value of Your Vehicle immediately before the loss (this is not 
necessarily the value You declared when the insurance was taken out) if Your Vehicle is 
determined as a total loss.
We can choose which of these actions We will take for any claim We accept.
So while I think Watford could have been clearer about what it would pay under section (a) if 
the car wasnt repairable after an accident, I dont think this means it should therefore pay 
the estimated value Mr C gave when he bought the policy. Under section (a) Watford says it 
will pay the cost of the loss or damage. Most  if not all motor insurance policies Ive seen  
unless they are agreed value policies  will pay no more than the market value of a vehicle 
in the event of it being a total loss. 
Watford provides a definition of what it means by Market Value under the policy and it says:
The retail Market Value based on that listed in the current Glasses Guide for 
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, 
trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition. Glasses Guide is a 
motor trade publication recognised and used extensively throughout the motor 
vehicle industry to value new/used vehicles. Where Glasses Guide is not available or 
there is a dispute over valuation with Your insurer, We will consider alternative 
equivalent motor trade publications such as CAP (CAP Motor Research Ltd) or 
Parkers Guide.
So overall I dont think Watford acted unreasonably in settling Mr Cs claim when his vehicle 
was deemed a total loss by paying the market value for it  instead of the value Mr C 
provided which was an estimate. 
Looking at the main motor trade guides they provided valuations for Mr Cs car between 
£4,350 and £5,555. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the 
motor trade guides are generally a more reliable way to reach a valuation for a vehicle as 
they are based on extensive nationwide research for likely selling prices for a car of the 
same make, model, mileage, age, and condition as Mr Cs. From what Mr C said, when 
giving an estimated value of his vehicle of £9,500, this consisted of his interpretation of what the value of the vehicle was to his business. Mr Cs policy with Watford sets out what it will 
and will not provide cover for in terms of uninsured losses such as loss of earnings or 
income. 
From what Ive seen, I cant reasonably conclude that Watford agreed to pay the estimated 
value Mr C gave, which was clearly recorded as an estimate on the policy schedule.  And so 
I think Watfords decision to settle Mr Cs claim by paying the market value for his car at the 
time of loss was fair and reasonable. 
I understand Mr C will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Watford needs 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman