DRN-3159946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined two 
claims for storm damage under their buildings insurance policy. Although the policy was in 
joint names, Ill refer only to Mr I throughout my decision, for ease.
What happened
After the first storm, Mr I noticed water had come into his home and dislodged the uPVC 
fascia. He claimed under his buildings policy. Lloyds inspected the damage and agreed that 
storm driven rain was the cause of the water ingress but there wasnt any actual storm 
damage to the roof.
A few weeks later, there was a second storm which damaged Mr Is television aerial and 
brought the uPVC fascia down completely. He told Lloyds and it recorded a second claim 
under his policy. On inspection, Lloyds reported that although the fascia was blown down by 
the storm, it was only because of existing damage to the timber frame. It declined the claim.
Our investigator upheld Mr Is complaint. He noted that the first inspection report concluded 
the internal damage was caused by the driven rain, so he thought the first claim shouldve 
been accepted as storm damage. Then, because the fascia wasnt repaired, our investigator 
thought the fascia became rotten and the second storm caused it to come down, along with 
the TV aerial. Our investigator thought Lloyds should settle the claims, reimburse Mr I for 
any repair costs hed already incurred, and pay simple interest of 8% per year from the date 
of the claim until the date of settlement. 
Lloyds didnt agree because it thought its surveyors reports fairly concluded that the storms 
didnt cause the damage.
Mr I asked for compensation and for Lloyds to cover the costs of £1,540 which he incurred 
when carrying out further repairs. This is in addition to Lloyds carrying out all outstanding 
repairs for his claims.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Is complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The overriding issue is that Mr I doesnt think Lloyds handled his claims fairly and he doesnt 
agree that it shouldve declined them. So, Ill focus on whether Lloyds fairly declined them in 
line with the policy terms for the reasons it gave.
Lloyds declined Mr Is first claim for water ingress because it didnt think a storm had caused 
the damage. It declined the second claim because the damage was caused over time, but 
the policy only covers a sudden, one-off event.
The policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, and/or
hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or 
breaks glass.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a storm on each occasion, and 
evidence confirms that there was, so I see no reason to go into this point in any further 
detail. Ive simply accepted that there were storm conditions.
Moving on, Ive considered whether the damage was consistent with that typically caused by 
a storm. The water ingress reported under the first claim can be a symptom of storm 
damage. And parts of the roof falling to the ground, as reported in the second claim, is also 
consistent with storm damage.
Again, I dont think theres any dispute that these types of damage can happen during a 
storm, so Ive moved on to the final consideration - was the damage wholly or mainly caused 
by the storm?
First claim
Ive looked at the expert reports provided, including the photos of Mr Is roof. Ive 
disregarded the comments about the dry stain on the ceiling because Mr I has made it clear 
thats damage which was present for some time before and wasnt part of his claim. While 
each of the surveyors have commented on the damage slightly differently, the overriding 
conclusion is that after the storm, the roof was in relatively good condition, showing no 
evidence of storm damage. The photos and reports show that part of the fascia had 
dislodged from the roof, but none of the expert reports attribute that to storm damage. For 
context, the uPVC fascia was detached at one end, as if a nail or screw was no longer 
holding it [in] place properly. Both parties are aware of the contents of the reports, so I wont 
repeat them here. But, in summary, Im satisfied that the evidence fairly concludes that there 
wasnt any storm damage to Mr Is roof during the first storm.
I should point out that the reports do confirm the roof had some general wear and tear issues 
around the chimney and dormer, and there was evidence of previous temporary repairs, and 
gaps in the internal felt. Im satisfied that the photos confirm these points. The reports also 
say the water ingress was caused by the directional rain during the storm. But thats different 
to being caused by the storm. If theres a gap where water can get in, it will. And here, the 
rainwater was able to enter through Mr Is roof because of the general damage and 
temporary repairs noted in the reports but which wasnt caused by the storm. 
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds declined Mr Is claim fairly for the reason it gave. There was no 
evidence of storm damage which wouldve caused the water ingress.
Second claim
The previously dislodged fascia came down in the second storm. I dont think theres any 
disagreement that a storm could cause that type of damage. However, on inspection, Lloyds 
surveyors found that the wood behind the fascia was damaged, and wouldve been for a 
long time, likely before the fascia was fastened to it. They also pointed out that the 
fastenings were inadequate and provided evidence of previous and temporary repairs. The 
surveyors concluded that the fascia wouldve come down sooner or later without the storm.
The question is, again, was the storm the main cause of the damage? Lloyds didnt think so 
and relied on the following policy exclusion:
This policy does not coverAny loss or damage caused by: A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition; 
Examples include, but are not limited to: 
water damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/or grout; 
water entering the property caused by inadequate maintenance to your roof such as 
missing or loose tiles, a leaking chimney or a cracked or worn flat roof; 
damaged, loose or missing guttering causing water to enter the property, causing 
damp; 
gutters and drains not being kept clear of leaves causing water to drain where it 
shouldnt, causing damp; 
rotten wooden window and door frames causing water to enter the property; or 
mechanical breakdown of door locks. 
Faulty workmanship, poor design, or defective or inherently unsuitable materials. 
Having considered the expert reports, I think Lloyds conclusion was fair. The photos 
revealed rotten timber and its surveyor reported that exposure to the rain between the two 
storms wouldnt have caused the damage seen. The surveyor also drew attention to the 
exposed fascia fixing and pointed out that it wasnt standard length and, because the wood 
was rotten, there was nothing for it to fix securely to. Im satisfied the surveyor was 
appropriately qualified to reach that decision so, in the absence of anything contradictory, I 
have no reason to doubt the evidence. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds considered Mr Is claims fairly under the terms of the policy. 
It concluded that the storms didnt cause, or werent the main reason for, the damage, and 
relied on valid policy exclusions to decline both claims. Put simply, but for the existing wear 
and tear, the damage wouldnt have happened during the storms. While I understand that Mr 
I will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to reconsider the 
claims.
As a final point, I note that Lloyds offered Mr I £200 in total for service shortfalls. Its not clear 
whether it has already paid that. While considering the complaint Ive noted several shortfalls 
in service, such as poor communication, missed calls, failing to confirm appointments and 
differing accounts of what was discussed. Ive thought carefully about the amount Lloyds 
offered and I think its fair. So, my provisional decision is based on the assumption that 
Lloyds has paid Mr I £200 for the shortfalls or, if not, that it will do so now. For that reason, I 
wont be requiring Lloyds to make any additional compensation payments.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds responded to our requests for further information, copies of which were provided to 
Mr I. 
After Mr I received all the information he asked for, he confirmed that he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. Mr I commented on most issues discussed and provided a lot of 
information to support his complaint. Ill explain further in my decision, below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.After carefully considering all of the evidence presented, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is 
complaint. I understand its likely hell be dissatisfied with my decision, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached it.
Firstly, Id like to say that Im not going to refer to every piece of information or respond to 
every comment made. Our rules dont require me to, and I think it would come across as 
argumentative or defensive on my part. Thats not my intention. As before, Ive looked at the 
overall complaint, from the beginning, taking into consideration the new information provided 
to reach my final decision.
A lot of information has been shared while Ive considered this complaint. I realise its a 
matter which is very important to Mr I and I can see hes put a lot of effort into researching 
his case. Briefly, Ill comment on his reference to published cases which he believes are 
identical to his, yet reach a different conclusion. Each case is assessed on its merits and its 
not appropriate to include every detail in our published decisions. The decisions are helpful 
as a guide but just because one case seems identical to Mr Is, it doesnt mean the 
background facts are too. And that point leads me to the key piece of evidence Mr I shared 
with me after I issued my provisional decision.
After I asked for it, Mr I provided me with a copy of the HomeBuyers survey he had done in 
May 2018, which was 18 months before he made his storm damage claims. Ive compared 
the information in that report with the evidence previously available in the expert reports. As I 
said, Mr I provided a lot of information and, understandably, hes looked into every detail of 
the reports and made further comments. But I must bring the matter back to his original 
complaint to Lloyds. Mr I was unhappy that Lloyds declined his first claim for water ingress 
and his second claim for storm damage because there was no evidence that a storm caused 
the damage. So, Ill comment on each claim again, in light of the HomeBuyers survey.
First claim - water ingress
In my provisional decision, I said the expert reports confirmed Mr Is roof, albeit in a 
generally good condition, was showing signs of wear and tear. Lloyds declined his claim 
because it didnt think a storm had caused the water ingress, rather that it was directional 
rain entering through an existing gap.
Mr Is HomeBuyers report says:
E2 Roof coverings
The main roof covering appears in acceptable condition for its age but it is weathered and 
we did note a damp stain internally to bedroom 1 ceiling although this currently tested dry. 
We believe under certain weather conditions penetrating damp may be possible 
associated with the dormer valley area and you will need to monitor this and some future 
repair is likely as ongoing maintenance.
Condition Rating 2.
The repairs necessary are not serious or urgent and are considered to be part of normal 
maintenance work of the property and should be dealt with after taking ownership or 
when annual maintenance is next carried out.
And, 
Under F Limitations to inspection
We were also not able to fully access the dormer area to establish the cause of a past 
leak hereI accept that the survey doesnt recommend urgent repairs, but it does fully support the other 
expert reports in terms of the condition of the roof. And Im satisfied that Mr Is survey 
confirms that the property was at risk of water ingress due to certain weather conditions. 
This report was prepared 18 months before the storm, and some maintenance and 
improvement couldve been expected during that time, based on the survey 
recommendations. So, on balance, it was reasonable that Lloyds relied on the expert reports 
to decline Mr Is claim because there was no evidence that the water ingress was caused by 
one-off storm damage. 
Second claim - storm damage
Mr Is second claim was for the damage to his fascia and aerial, both of which came down 
during a storm. The fact that they came down is not disputed. The issue is whether the storm 
was the main cause. Lloyds declined the claim because its surveyors reported that the 
damage was due mainly to the rotten timber behind the uPVC fascia and to which it was 
affixed. Mr I doesnt think thats fair because he wouldnt have known that there was 
anything wrong with the timber as it was hidden by the fascia.
Ive looked at the HomeBuyers survey to see what it says on this matter. 
E8 Other joinery and finishes
The external joinery comprises of fascias, soffits, bargeboards and wall claddings (i.e. to 
front dormer). These are made of various materials including timber and fibre 
cementWe did note some general weathering to timber fascias and gable boards. The 
joinery is weathered but is in reasonable order for the age of the property.
Condition Rating 2.
The repairs necessary are not serious or urgent and are considered to be part of normal 
maintenance work of the property and should be dealt with after taking ownership or 
when annual maintenance is next carried out. Within this relatively exposed coastal 
location a general overhaul repair and repaint to external joinery must be envisaged every 
2-3 years. Replacement with PVC material should be considered to limit future 
maintenance liabilities.
Again, the report doesnt stress urgency, but it clearly recommends replacing external joinery 
with PVC due to the exposed location of the property. As the survey confirms the joinery was 
weathered, specifically in the exposed area where the fascia came down, I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr I wouldve been completely unaware of the condition of the timber behind 
the fascia.
Ive noted Mr Is comment that the surveyor reports said there was no evidence of roof 
damage, therefore the water ingress could not have been caused by a lack of maintenance 
or poor general repair. While I understand the point hes making, I cant agree with his 
interpretation of the reports. The surveyors were responding to the claim that the roof was 
damaged by storm. This is clear in the comment, no visible storm damage and, unable to 
identify any roof damage in the vicinity [of the water ingress]. So the reports are simply 
saying that the roof wasnt storm damaged rather than saying the damage couldnt possibly 
have happened any other way because the roof was in good condition.
Mr I also said that the water ingress, the subject of his first claim, mustve been caused by 
the storm. He said, but for the storm, the water wouldnt have got into the house. Again, I 
understand the point hes making but the test hasnt been applied quite as it should. Here, 
the test is but for the existing roof damage, would the rain have entered his home during the 
storm?. Im satisfied that Lloyds reasonably concluded that it wouldnt and, therefore, fairly 
declined Mr Is claim.In summary, the content of Mr Is HomeBuyers survey supports the conclusions reached in 
the expert reports from the time of the claims, which indicates Mr I wouldve been aware of 
the likelihood of existing damage to the timber fascia. Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
fairly declined his claim because the storm wasn't the main cause of damage; rather the 
fascia and aerial damage was due to wear and tear and a gradually operating cause.
As a final, separate point, Ill comment on the difference between Mr Is copy and Lloyds 
copy of one of the survey reports. There are a few clear differences in the reports and, after 
asking why that might be, neither party could offer an explanation. Its unusual, so Ive 
thought about whether the difference in content matters. Some of the differences are 
relatively unimportant and dont affect the merits of the complaint. But there is one line 
missing from Mr Is report which explains that cover may have been available under the 
accidental damage part of his contents insurance for the water ingress claim. Lloyds 
evidence indicates that this was explained to Mr I but he chose to cover the cost of 
redecorating himself. Mr I denies that conversation ever happened. 
With the evidence available, its not possible to determine why the reports differ, but having 
looked at the terms of the policy, water ingress due to wear and tear or which happens 
gradually over time is excluded from cover. As Ive already decided that the evidence 
supports Lloyds view that the roof was not damaged by a storm, I dont think the difference 
in the reports makes a material difference. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence supports Lloyds view that the damage wasnt caused 
mainly by a storm, so I see no reason to ask it to reconsider the claims. For clarity, my 
decision is based on the assumption that Lloyds has, or will, pay Mr I £200 compensation for 
the service shortfalls identified, offered previously and which I consider reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman