DRN-3698036
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) avoided his motor 
insurance policy and declined his claim. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage via a price 
comparison website. In February 2022, he made a claim on the policy. Advantage then said 
hed made a qualifying misrepresentation, as he didnt disclose the fact his car had been 
modified with an LPG conversion. They therefore avoided the policy and declined his claim. 
As they concluded the misrepresentation was careless, they also refunded the policy 
premiums. 
Mr P said he didnt think hed been treated fairly, and he didnt declare the LPG conversion 
as it was listed in the logbook when he purchased the car. An investigator at our service then 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Advantage had acted reasonably and 
he didnt think Mr Ps explanation for not declaring the modification changed things. 
Mr P then requested a final decision. He said he could accept the fact his policy had been 
avoided and the claim refused, but he didnt want Advantages decision to negatively impact 
him, when he applied for a new policy. He also said hed recently become aware, that if hed 
applied for the policy via a different website, the fuel type wouldnt have been listed as petrol. 
Our investigator empathised with his position, but still concluded the voidance was fair. He 
also agreed with Mr P that depending on the questions asked, he would need to disclose the 
policy voidance during future applications for insurance.
Mr P remained unhappy, so Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets 
out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable 
care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he applied for the policy and didnt declare the LPG conversion modification. 
Ive looked at the sales journey that was completed when Mr P applied for the policy via the 
price comparison website. The website automatically generated some details about Mr Ps 
car based on the registration number he provided. This included the fact the fuel type was 
listed as petrol. 
As part of the application Mr P was asked : 
Does the car have any modifications? Next to this was a blue question mark which Mr P 
could have clicked on for more information. It said: Modifications are non-standard changes 
made to the car after manufacturer. These include new spoilers, alloy wheels etc but a tow 
bar doesnt need to be listed.
If Mr P had answered yes to the above question, he would then have been able to declare 
the fact his car had an LPG conversion, as it was an option listed under the drop down 
menu. 
I appreciate Mr P has said he didnt think he was required to disclose the modification as its 
listed in the logbook. However, as the question asked about any modifications, and the 
additional explanation said this included all non-standard changes post manufacturer, Id 
expect a reasonable consumer and therefore Mr P to declare it. In addition, as the online 
form automatically detailed the fuel type for his car as petrol, this should reasonably have 
prompted him to consider the LPG conversion. Im therefore satisfied Mr P didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Mr P has said, the fuel for his car wouldnt have been listed as petrol if hed applied via a 
different website. However, Im only required to consider the actual website Mr P used when 
he applied for the policy. And as he was aware of the modification having seen it in the 
logbook, Id reasonably have expected him to have declared it. The fact the fuel was listed 
as petrol may have prompted him to think about the LPG, but it wouldnt take away from his 
responsibility to declare the modification in any event.
I also note that after taking out the policy, Mr P was provided with a statement of insurance. 
This detailed the fact he hadnt declared any modifications and highlighted the importance of 
checking all the information was correct. As such, this was an additional opportunity for Mr P 
to rectify the issue and declare the LPG conversion.
Advantage have provided their underwriting criteria which shows they wouldnt have 
provided Mr P with the policy, had he disclosed the modification. So, Im satisfied his 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. Theyve also said Mr Ps 
misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. As this is the most 
favourable classification for Mr P, I see no reason to interfere with this decision. 
Ive lastly looked at the actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA, in the event 
of a qualifying careless misrepresentation. These include avoiding the policy ( treating it like 
it never existed) and refusing all claims. In such circumstances, they are also required to 
refund the policy premiums. As that reflects Advantages actions here, Im satisfied they 
have acted fairly and need not do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman