DRN-1916923
 
The complaint
Mr U, representing his business which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK 
Plc has sent data relating to B to a third party.
What happened
Mr U is a partner in B. His late mother was also a partner. In 2019 Mr Us mother passed 
away and Mr Us wife, Mrs U, notified Barclays. At this point, Barclays listed Mrs U as the 
informant for Mr Us late mothers accounts. Barclays sent details and forms directly to 
Mrs U.
In July 2019 Mrs U received a letter from Barclays which gave information relating to B. Mr U 
complained. He said that Mrs U wasnt a partner at that time and the information was 
something relating to B. So, he felt Barclays had breached data protection laws. Barclays 
didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had noted Mrs U as the informant for Mr Us 
late mothers accounts. This includes the business account information. It said that it hadnt 
been instructed to contact anyone else, so it hadnt done anything wrong.
Our investigator also felt Barclays hadnt made an error. He explained that Barclays had 
listed Mrs U as the informant and therefore would send all correspondence about Mr Us late 
mother to her  this is until Barclays receives a grant of probate or is notified otherwise. But 
neither of these things happened. The investigator also noted that Barclays had 
corresponded with Mrs U about the accounts before this letter was sent and it wasnt ever 
told that Mrs U was only dealing with the personal accounts. So, he felt Barclays had acted 
reasonably.
Mr U disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to set out that it isnt my role to decide if Barclays has breached data protection 
laws. This is for the ICO to decide. But I can look into whether Barclays has acted fairly, in 
line with its processes and, if it hasnt, whether Mr U on behalf of B has suffered any 
detriment.
Mr U is unhappy that Barclays disclosed information to Mrs U about a charge registered for 
B, his business. I can see that the information about the charge was requested by Mr Bs 
solicitors so I can understand why it was frustrating that it was sent to Mrs U instead. Ive 
considered whether Barclays has done something wrong in doing this, but I dont think it has.
B is a partnership. The partners were Mr U and his late mother. However, I note that Mrs U 
is now a partner and, at the time the information was sent, she was in the process of 
becoming a partner. When Mr Us mother passed away it was Mrs U that reported this to 
Barclays. She provided a death certificate as well as identification and she was logged as 
the informant. Following this, Barclays continued to correspond directly with Mrs U about her 
late mother-in-laws accounts. 
Mr U has said that Mrs U shouldve only been informed about his late mothers personal 
accounts. But I cant see that this was an instruction that Barclays was given. And the 
information it sent Mrs U was directly concerning a question about the estate of Mr Us late 
mother. So, I dont think it did anything wrong in sending this information to Mrs U, who it 
had been corresponding with up to that point about the estate.
Its worth noting that even if Barclays shouldnt have sent this information to Mrs U, Ive not 
seen that it has caused any detriment to Mr U or B. Mr U has said that at the time he was 
trying to get Mrs U to be added as a partner on Bs account and I can see she now is a 
partner. So, although I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong here, I also cant see 
that it has caused any detriment to B or its partners.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman