DRN-2620631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Target Servicing Limited hasnt provided them evidence that 
their mortgage agreement is an unregulated product. Theyre also unhappy with incorrect 
information that was provided to them, which meant they had to pay for two surveys to be 
completed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a Help-to-Buy mortgage through a government scheme, which Ill 
call HE. Mr and Mrs S brought a different complaint to this office about the terms of that 
mortgage. We explained we couldnt look into their complaint about the terms of the 
mortgage as the mortgage provided by HE wasnt regulated.
Mr and Mrs S asked for evidence from Target about the mortgage being unregulated as 
they say they were not made aware of this prior to agreeing the mortgage. And when 
documentation wasnt forthcoming Mr and Mrs S complained about the lack of evidence of 
the mortgage being unregulated, amongst other things.
Target delayed in responding to the complaint, but when it did so it explained it had 
been waiting on documentation from the lender to show the mortgage wasnt regulated. 
This hadnt yet been forthcoming but as the complaint was about the conduct of another 
party it was unable to comment further.
Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into the complaint just before the final response was 
issued. And they were unhappy with the response, as despite not being provided with 
documentation, Target was still referring the loan as being unregulated. Initially our 
investigator didnt think this was something we could help with, but later found Target 
hadnt done anything wrong as the information was coming from a third party and so any 
delays werent due to Target.
Mr and Mrs S have asked the matter to be reviewed. In summary they have said:
Target provided incorrect information. It made them pay out to have two surveys 
done because of that incorrect information. This caused them stress for many 
months.
Still no evidence has been provided that the mortgage is unregulated.
There is a conflict of interest between Target and the lender. They made a DSAR to 
Target but it was passed the lender when it shouldnt have been.
The investigator has concentrated more on the first complaint which is totally different 
to this.
We asked Mr and Mrs S to clarify who the incorrect information was provided by in relation 
to the redemption process. They explained Target didnt tell them in the call of 27 February 
2019 that they needed to have written permission for any works to be carried out (subject to 
the previous complaint) or that if they were being carried out for medical reasons they 
wouldnt be considered in any valuation (as 20% of the value would need to be paid to HE 
on redemption).
I issued my provisional decision on 15 February explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
this complaint. I said:
I think it would help if I explained that Target is authorised by the regulator to carry out 
debt administration activities.  However, the lender  HE  isnt, as its a government 
scheme. So I cant look at any of the terms of the mortgage provided by HE or at any of 
HEs actions. But I can look at the activities Target carry out with regard to debt 
administration  this isnt a choice by us as Target suggested during calls with Mr S, but 
what the rules allow us to consider.
Debt administration encompasses performing duties on behalf of a lender in relation to a 
credit agreement and exercising or enforcing the rights under such an agreement on 
behalf of a lender.
Unregulated mortgage
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Target has been unable to provide evidence of the loan 
being unregulated. However, Target isnt the lender, nor did it arrange the mortgage, 
which I understand was done through a broker. To the extent Mr and Mrs S say they 
werent aware the mortgage was unregulated when they agreed to it, that is a matter for 
the broker; Target simply administrates the mortgage debt for HE.
And as its HE that is the lender, it will have any documentation showing it isnt regulated. 
So I dont think Target was acting unfairly when trying to obtain that information from the 
lender and Im not persuaded it is responsible for any delays in the lender providing that.
In any event, I am aware that Mr and Mrs S do have in their possession a copy of the 
mortgage document (as they provided a copy of this to us for their first complaint) so Im 
not sure what more can be provided. Whether or not a loan is regulated is determined by 
the rules and regulations put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority and other 
legislation, such as the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the associated 
regulated activities orders, not by what is written in a document.
Article 60E of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 specifically exempts agreements from being regulated where the lender is a local 
authority or a housing authority. That applies here. As mentioned above, if Mr and Mrs S 
are unhappy they werent made aware of that at the time of taking out the mortgage, that 
is a matter they will need to take up with the mortgage broker who arranged their 
mortgage for them. That isnt something Target is responsible for.
Two surveys
Mr and Mrs S say they are unhappy they were made to pay to have two surveys 
completed. We asked Mr and Mrs S for clarification on this part, as having listened to 
some calls, I noted that they were speaking with both HE and Target about the redemption 
of the mortgage.
Mr S clarified they were given incorrect information by Target in a call which took place 
on 27 February 2019. They say Target was wrong to tell them they needed written 
permission for approval to make home improvements and they say they werent 
informed to get a doctors note explaining home improvements were made for medical 
reasons.
I note Mr and Mrs S previously raised the issue of needing written approval with this office and were told it wasnt something we could consider. To the extent Mr and Mrs S 
werent told about requiring a doctors note, Im not sure this is something I would expect 
them to be told during this call. Having considered the transcript of the call, the first and 
perhaps most important point I note is that Mrs S doesnt mention the alterations being 
made were due to medical reasons; the call is simply to request approval having had 
planning permission granted. So I dont currently find any basis on which it would have 
known then that Mr and Mrs S might need that information; and it isnt something I would 
expect it to simply ask any of the borrowers as a matter of course. Secondly, it isnt clear 
that Mr and Mrs S had any intention of redeeming the loan at the time the call was made; 
so I question why Target would have known what redemption requirements might be 
applicable to them.
But even if I had found that Target had done something wrong, which I make clear here 
I dont, I note from the final response that it has already waived administration fees 
totalling £250 a gesture of goodwill for any additional costs incurred during the 
redemption process. As Mr and Mrs S paid £200 for the first survey and £150 for the 
second, I find this fair compensation and wouldnt have asked for anything further.
To the extent Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about any perceived conflicts of interest, delays 
in completing SARs or SARs being passed to HE, that isnt a matter I can consider here. 
They werent part of the original referral. So if Mr and Mrs S do wish us to consider these 
points they will need to raise a new complaint with us to see if it is one we can help with.
Target said it had nothing further to add. Mr S replied unhappy with the outcome. In 
summary he has said:
This complaint isnt about the loan being unregulated. He is constantly telling us 
this, but nobody is listening. He asks whether we have picked up the information 
from a different case and replied about that.  
Their complaint is about Target providing them with incorrect information over 
many months which cost them money. Mr S considers we have gone over stuff 
that isnt relevant and has nothing to do with their first complaint or HE. 
Their complaint is about the wrong information provided in the call of 27 February 
2019 and the constant wrong information Target provided following that which 
they fought to get put right  making them pay 20% extra that they werent 
supposed to be paying. Their complaint is it took Target about six months to 
provide the correct information about what was needed (a doctors note) by which 
time the had paid for two surveys; if they had been provided with correct 
information they would only have paid for one. 
So this complaint is about Targets behaviour. 
As both parties have now responded to the provisional decision it is appropriate to move the 
final stage of our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs S feel I havent looked at the right complaint. I have re-listened to the 
call Mr S had with one of our investigators when this complaint was raised. That complaint 
was twofold:1. Mr and Mrs S were complaining that Target hadnt provided them documentation to 
show that they were told before agreeing to the mortgage that it was unregulated and 
that they would lose rights because of that; and 
2. Target didnt tell them in a call of 27 February 2019 to get a doctors note in relation 
to the alterations they were making to the property. It took them around 20 weeks to 
tell them to send in the doctors note, after which it was accepted and they now dont 
have to include that in the 20%. 
Im satisfied the complaint I considered and the provisional decision I reached was in relation 
to the complaint that Mr and Mrs S asked us to consider. It would appear, however, that my 
findings werent clear so I will endeavour to make them clearer. 
Mortgage documentation
I explained in my provisional findings that whether or not a mortgage is regulated is 
determined by reference to the Regulated Activities Order, not by what is written in a 
particular document. That wasnt to make a finding about whether or not the mortgage was 
regulated but to set out why Target isnt able to provide the information Mr and Mrs S want. 
Target will know, because it is administering mortgages provided by a local or housing 
authority, that they arent regulated. So it doesnt need a separate piece of documentation 
setting that out. And to the extent Mr and Mrs S want a copy of a document showing they 
were told the mortgage was unregulated and they would lose rights, its not clear that even 
exists. If it does, it isnt something I would expect Target to be able to provide as it didnt 
arrange the mortgage, that was done by a broker.  Hence my reference to Mr and Mrs S 
contacting the mortgage broker. 
Target asked HE for a copy of any documentation it might have setting that out. I dont think 
it was wrong of Target to do that in an attempt to provide the information Mr and Mrs S 
wanted. And whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S waited some considerable time (and I 
understand have yet to be provided with that evidence) that was because Target was waiting 
for HE. Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Target responsible for HEs delays.  
Im satisfied this was part of the complaint Mr and Mrs S asked us to consider and for the 
reasons given, I dont uphold it. 
Two surveys
There is little more that I can add to my provisional findings. I find no basis on which Target 
ought to have provided information to Mrs S about a doctors note in the call of 27 February 
2019, because it wasnt clear that any alternations were being for medical reasons or that Mr 
and Mrs S were looking to redeem their mortgage at the time.  And I have already explained 
I wouldnt expect Target to ask questions about whether alterations were done for medical 
reasons as a matter of course. 
Mr and Mrs S say Target consistently provided incorrect information for a period of about six 
months which meant they ended up paying for two surveys when they didnt have to. Even if 
I accept that to be correct, Target has already refunded administration fees totalling £250 for 
any additional costs incurred during the redemption process. As Mr and Mrs S paid £200 for 
the first survey and £150 for the second, I find this fair compensation and effectively means 
the cost of at least one survey has been refunded. Im not going to ask Target to do anything 
more in relation to this part of the complaint.  
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman