DRN-2421476
The complaint
Mr J and Miss S complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited rejected a 
claim they made on their wedding insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr J and Miss S were due to get married abroad in May 2020. They took out a wedding 
insurance policy with Acasta. Shortly before the wedding was due to take place the wedding 
venue contacted them saying it would have to cancel the booking as it couldnt source the 
staff and goods needed for the event to take place. The venue said this was due to problems 
caused by Covid-19.
Mr J and Miss S made a claim on their policy, but this was declined. They complained but 
Acasta didnt change its decision. Acasta said the policy only provided cover for specific 
events. It said there were no restrictions in place that prevented the wedding going ahead 
and the fact that the venue couldnt source the things it needed for the wedding wasnt one 
of those events, so there was no cover. Acasta suggested they claim for breach of contract 
against the venue, which would probably be covered for this under its own insurance.
When Mr J and Miss S brought the complaint to this service, our investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld. He said the policy would cover the claim if the wedding was 
cancelled due to an infectious or contagious disease; Covid-19 was such a disease; and the 
problems the venue had were due to Covid-19 so there was a clear link with that. So he said 
Acasta should settle the claim and pay interest of 8% on any payment to Mr J and Miss S.
Acasta disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. It said the relevant cover for 
cancellation due to an outbreak of disease would be valid if there hadnt been government 
action in response to the pandemic; the cause of the loss was the covid-19 pandemic; but 
government restrictions were introduced that prohibited the wedding from going ahead. So 
although the claim would otherwise be covered, it said the exclusion in the policy relating to 
government actions would apply.
Before making my decision I advised both parties that  if I upheld the complaint  I was 
considering awarding compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr J and Miss S by Acastas decision not to accept their claim and gave them the 
opportunity to provide further comments in light of this.
Mr J and Miss S say Acasta didnt handle things well and the way it dealt with their claim 
made the situation extremely stressful and difficult; a payment of £200 would be a small 
gesture.
Acasta says if the complaint is upheld it wouldnt object to the level of compensation 
suggested, but would want a detailed explanation of which element of cover the claim would 
be accepted under. It says that the reason for declining the claim was, and still is, that the 
reason the wedding was cancelled is not covered by the policy terms, as the hotel was open 
and the relevant authorities had not prevented events going ahead  it wasnt forced to 
close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly, and should not unreasonably reject a 
claim.
The policy provides cover for any irrecoverable expenses as a result of
the booked venue for the Wedding or Wedding Reception being unable to hold Your 
Wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, 
murder or suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant authority
The policy doesnt define infectious or contagious disease so I need to consider the natural 
meaning of that phrase. Im satisfied Covid-19  a disease that can be passed easily from 
one person to another  would amount to an infectious or contagious disease. Im also 
satisfied there has been an outbreak of Covid-19. The policy doesnt say anything about the 
scale of the outbreak, only that there must have been one, which there has.
Acasta has pointed out that there wasnt an outbreak at the premises, but I dont think that 
matters. Although the policy term includes the words at the premises its not clear that is 
intended to apply to the whole clause. It wouldnt make sense for it to apply to damage to 
the venue as the venue must always be the same as the premises. The policy doesnt 
define either of these terms. But it refers to the venue where the wedding or the reception 
are booked, meaning the place where these will take place. And logically, the reference to 
premises  being in the clause about cover for the venue being unable to hold the wedding  
must I think refer to the same place.
Closure by the relevant authority comes after the words at the premises so those words 
dont apply to that. If the intention was that these words apply to the whole of this policy term 
(meaning an outbreak of disease would only be covered if the outbreak was at the premises) 
the policy wording could have made that clear but it doesnt. I think the proper legal 
construction is that the words at the premises only apply to murder or suicide not to the 
whole of that policy term.
Acasta refused the claim on the basis the venues inability to source supplies or staff isnt 
covered, as the cause of the cancellation wasnt one of the insured risks set out in the policy. 
In other circumstances that may be correct. But in this case, the reason it had these 
problems was directly due to Covid-19. I have to look at all the circumstances of the case 
and theres a clear link between the Covid-19 pandemic and the cancellation. And in reply to 
our investigators view, Acasta accepted that the proximate cause  in other words, the 
effective cause of the cancellation  was Covid-19, meaning the claim would be covered 
under this term.
On this basis, Im satisfied the claim is covered unless Acasta can show that an exclusion 
applies.
In its comments to this service, Acasta referred to the exclusion in the policy relating to 
government actions and said this exclusion applies, as government restrictions were 
introduced that prohibited the wedding from going ahead. It didnt rely on this at the time the 
decision was made to decline the claim, but as it has since referred to this exclusion Ive 
considered whether it should apply.The exclusion says theres no cover for 
Any claim arising directly or indirectly from:
4. government regulation or act 
My view is that the insured peril set out above covers an order to close from any authority 
with the power to issue the closure direction  there is cover if the claim arises from closure 
of the venue by the relevant authority.
But Acasta has argued that the exclusion for government act or regulation means the claim 
is not covered if the venue closed due to government restrictions. Any powers to close a 
venue are highly likely to be derived  directly or indirectly  from government regulation or 
acts. Its difficult to see a situation in which a venue is closed by a relevant authority that isnt 
using powers derived from a government act or regulation. Acastas interpretation either 
narrows the scope of the insuring clause considerably, or requires additional wording to be 
read into the exclusion so that it does not apply to a government regulation or act which 
results in the closure of the specific venue. If the exclusion clause was intended to cover 
government regulations or acts closing venues, it could have said so, but it doesnt make this 
clear.
Either way, the effect would be to give cover with one hand (the insuring clause) and then 
take it away with the other (the exclusion clause). The legal position is that the insuring 
clause and exclusion clause need to be read together. If either clause is looked at in 
isolation, the consumer would or would not have cover, depending on which of the clauses 
one considers. 
In my judgment, it would not be a fair outcome to say the cover given by the insuring clause 
is taken away by the exclusion. 
In any event, that isnt what happened here; the government restrictions in the country where 
the wedding was due to take place had been lifted by the date the wedding was due to take 
place. The problem was that the venue couldnt get the staff or supplies it needed, and this 
was due to the covid-19 outbreak  an infectious or contagious disease. In these 
circumstances, the exclusion for government acts doesnt apply to this claim. 
Acastas position hasnt been consistent. In its most recent comments to us, it has again said 
the reason for declining the claim is that the hotel was open and the relevant authorities had 
not prevented events going ahead  it wasnt forced to close due to government restrictions. 
So rather than relying on the exclusion, it says the cancellation simply isnt covered by the 
policy terms. But for the reasons Ive already explained and Acasta has also acknowledged, 
if the exclusion doesnt apply then the claim is covered.
For these reasons my view is that the claim should be covered and so Im upholding the 
complaint.
Mr J and Miss S have explained that the way Acasta dealt with their claim made the situation 
extremely stressful. Having to cancel their wedding must have been very upsetting and the 
fact their claim was then rejected will have exacerbated an already difficult situation. In these 
circumstances I think its appropriate that some compensation should be payable and a 
payment of £200 is fair to acknowledge the additional upset caused at an already difficult 
time.
Putting things rightTo put things Acasta should 
settle the claim and pay Mr J and Miss Ss losses in line with the remaining policy 
terms, together with 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made until the 
date its settled; and
pay compensation of £200 to Mr J and Miss S in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to settle the claim and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman