DRN-1637313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings only insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J received a renewal quote from Triton in May 2019, to renew their buildings 
insurance policy in early June 2019. To ensure their cover remained in force, Mr and Mrs J 
paid the full amount to Triton by bank transfer. The amount paid was £370.46.
In late June 2019 Mr J told Triton that their house was on the market to be sold, and he 
would let Triton know once everything was in place. He continued to keep Triton updated, 
and the house was sold in early September 2019. As Mr J wasnt buying another house at 
this time, he asked Triton to refund the unused portion of the insurance premium. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt hear from Triton over the next couple of months, despite making several 
phone calls and sending several emails to them. So, Mr J contacted the managing agent 
shown on the insurance schedule provided by Triton. They confirmed that they had stopped 
trading with Triton from the renewal date. They hadnt received the premium from Triton and 
Mr and Mrs Js policy had never been renewed. 
Mr and Mrs J complained to Triton. Triton never responded to Mr and Mrs J, so they brought 
their complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs J. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £370.46, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs J have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs J paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their cover remained active. 
And they did the right thing in keeping Triton updated with the sale of their house and 
requesting a refund of the unused portion of the insurance. Mr and Mrs Js original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide 
Mr and Mrs J with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs J any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they 
should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs J paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs J. Mr J has 
also confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton several times to get their money back, and he 
wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of his calls or emails were returned. Because of 
this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs J their premium of £370.46;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs J 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman