DRN-2729938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Zurich Insurance PLC advised them it would continue to provide 
buildings insurance cover in the future, but then didnt do so. 
 
What happened
When Mr and Mrs D bought their property, it had previously experienced subsidence. 
Zurich provided buildings insurance cover to Mr and Mrs D.
In 2015, stabilisation work was needed to the property due to further subsidence, and some 
piling was carried out to the front. Mr and Mrs D thought the rear of the property also needed 
to be piled, and expressed concerns about this to Zurich. They say they were reassured by 
Zurichs agent that Zurich would offer to insure the property going forwards, subject to 
normal underwriting considerations.  
Mr and Mrs D then decided to sell their property. However, the rebuild cost took the policy 
over its underwriting limit. That meant the risk was unacceptable to Zurich and it refused to 
provide continuation cover to the buyer. Another part of Zurichs business did eventually 
agree to offer cover, but for a much higher premium. 
Mr and Mrs D say they had to reduce the sale price of their property as a result of this. They 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Zurich had 
done anything wrong, as its decision not to offer cover to the buyer wasnt related to the 
subsidence. She also thought Zurich had carried out an appropriate stabilising solution in 
2015.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) Domestic Subsidence Agreement means that 
Zurich is obliged to continue to insure a property where it has dealt with a previous 
subsidence claim. However, Zurich isnt required to continue to insure the property if Mr and 
Mrs D, or a prospective buyer of the property, doesnt meet their underwriting criteria. 
I dont think it would be appropriate for me to comment on Zurichs decision not to offer cover 
to the buyer of Mr and Mrs Ds property, as only the buyer would be eligible to complain 
about that. Although another part of Zurichs business ended up offering cover to the buyer, 
that wasnt under the ABI agreement.
Mr and Mrs D have referred to correspondence in 2016 that took place with an agent of 
Zurichs in respect of the piling guarantee. That agent said the guarantee should protect Mr 
and Mrs Ds interests going forward and could be presented to other insurers to demonstrate 
that the works were undertaken satisfactorily. However, Zurich was obliged to continue cover 
under the existing policy, and the premium shouldnt be disproportionally affected by the 
claim.  
The same agent later noted Mr and Mrs Ds intention to sell the property at some point in the 
future. The agent said Zurich will also offer to insure any incoming purchaser, subject to 
normal underwriting considerations, so they too will be protected in the unlikely event of re-
activation of movement.
Im satisfied that Zurichs agent didnt mislead Mr and Mrs D. Zurich was obliged to offer 
insurance to a future purchaser under the ABI agreement, though this would be subject to 
underwriting considerations. 
Zurich continued to provide cover to Mr and Mrs D until the property sold on a goodwill 
basis, even though the rebuild cost had exceeded their underwriting limit. That seems to 
have been fair. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the stabilising solution carried out by Zurich in 
2015, but I havent seen any evidence that it didnt provide an effecting and long-lasting 
repair. Zurichs engineer has confirmed that the level monitoring showed no evidence of 
movement to the rear of the property, and that was why it wasnt included in the stabilisation 
scheme. I think it was reasonable for Zurich to rely on its engineers advice. 
I do have sympathy for Mr and Mrs D. The ABI agreement exists because prospective 
buyers can find it difficult to find insurance for a property with historical subsidence, and a 
new policy can be very expensive. However, Zurich wasnt obliged to offer cover to Mr and 
Mrs Ds buyer under the ABI agreement if the buyer didnt meet its underwriting criteria. Mr 
and Mrs D felt they had to reduce the sale price of their property so that they wouldnt lose 
their buyer as a result of this. Thats very unfortunate, but I dont think that Zurich did 
anything wrong here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman