DRN-3033820
The complaint
Mrs Is complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has added a marker against 
her name on a fraud prevention agency database following Admirals cancellation of her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs I applied for the policy online, she says with the help of a third party broker (that was 
subsequently discovered to be a ghost broker), in February 2017. During the application 
process Mrs I indicated she was entitled to a no claims bonus (NCB) of six years. Admiral 
started the policy with a discount to reflect the NCB that had been declared in the 
application. It asked Mrs I to provide evidence of the NCB after the insurer named as having 
insured her previously, confirmed to Admiral it had no record of her or any previous policy 
held by her. 
When evidence of the NCB wasnt provided, Admiral asked Mrs I to pay the extra premium 
shed have had to pay if she was entitled to no NCB. Mrs I didnt pay the extra premium and 
the policy was cancelled with effect from April 2017. Mrs I said she wasnt entitled to any 
NCB, having not driven a car for several years. She went on to say the incorrect information 
had been fabricated by the broker, not her. In the light of what had happened, Admiral added 
Mrs Is name to a fraud prevention agency database in April 2017.
Mrs I complained to Admiral that it shouldnt have added a marker to her name on the 
database and that shed suffered financial loss as a result of it doing so. Namely, her bank 
had blocked her account and that other banks were refusing to open accounts for her.
Admiral said it was satisfied the policy was correctly cancelled and the database had been 
correctly updated as it had detected fraud. Unhappy with Admirals response, Mrs I brought 
her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
The investigator was persuaded that the information relating to Mrs Is NCB had been 
misrepresented to Admiral and that it was fair for Admiral to ultimately cancel the policy and 
place a marker on the database as a result. 
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said the investigator had placed too 
much emphasis on the evidence provided by Admiral and not enough on the information 
shed sent us. She said shed cancelled the policy rather than Admiral because of her 
circumstances which meant she decided not to keep the car. 
  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh. After considering the complaint I issued a provisional decision explaining why 
I believed Admiral was entitled to cancel the policy but wasnt entitled to have added Mrs Is 
details to the database. As compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by the 
latter, I asked Admiral to pay Mrs I £300. I hadnt seen enough evidence to show shed lost 
out financially because of what Admiral had done.
I asked both parties to provide me with additional comments and information before I 
considered the complaint again.
Mrs I said she was happy with my findings but asked me to also make an award for the 
financial loss she said she suffered as a result of Admirals actions. Mrs I said her Help to 
Buy individual savings account (ISA) provider cancelled her account and so she missed out 
on government bonuses and interest.
Admiral belatedly confirmed that the database entry for Mrs I was for application fraud. It 
also said it had fairly added the entry, in line with the database guidelines, because Mrs I 
had sent the fraudulent document to it on two occasions. It said that showed her intent to 
provide information that she knew was untrue.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my previous decision, Mrs I raised several questions about the actions Admiral 
took and the timing of them. But its not my role to answer each one of those questions or to 
address them all in my decision. That said, Id like to assure Mrs I that Ive taken them into 
account in reaching my overall conclusions.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation
Its no longer in dispute that fraud occurred in relation to Mrs Is policy. And Mrs I accepts 
that, when she arranged the policy, she unwittingly did so through whats sometimes 
described as a ghost broker  that is, someone claiming they can get cheap car insurance 
but who leaves consumers without valid cover. They can do so in several ways but, in this 
instance, they forged evidence showing Mrs I was entitled to an NCB when she wasnt.
I realise this evidence was requested by, and sent to, Admiral by Mrs I. That being the case, 
Im satisfied that information was misrepresented to Admiral and that the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. 
Under CIDRA, Id need to consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
That means Id first need to consider if Mrs I took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to Admiral. Mrs Is already accepted she didnt check the NCB evidence 
the ghost broker sent to her before sending it on to Admiral. I dont believe a reasonable 
consumer would have forwarded that information on to Admiral without at least opening the 
email attachment and checking it first. Not to mention the fact that Mrs I didnt pick up on the 
information being incorrect when Admiral sent her other application paperwork.
To consider whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation, I must also look at whether 
Admirals shown that, without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the 
contract at all or would have only done so on different terms. Im satisfied that Admirals 
shown that it would still have offered Mrs I the policy had it known she wasnt entitled to an 
NCB but that it would have required a higher premium. Its provided copy correspondence in 
which it asked Mrs I to pay the extra premium it would have charged had she said at the 
outset that she wasnt entitled to any NCB and Ive no reason to believe it wouldnt have 
followed a similar process for other new customers.Admiral believes Mrs Is misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless as opposed to 
careless. That means it believes Mrs I knew the misrepresentation was untrue or misleading 
or didnt care if that was the case. That would also mean she knew that the matter to which 
the misrepresentation related was relevant to Admiral or didnt care if it was relevant. In the 
circumstances, I think on balance it was fair for Admiral to conclude Mrs Is 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. As Ive said, Mrs I accepts she didnt check 
the NCB letter before sending it on to Admiral, and I think Admiral made it clear to her that 
the information was relevant to it. 
According to CIDRA, where the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  as 
I believe it was in this case  the insurers entitled to avoid the policy (cancel it from the start) 
and need not return the premium to the consumer. Admiral also sets out its right to take such 
action in its policy terms and conditions. I gather that, although Mrs Is policy was cancelled, 
Admiral chose to return the premium to Mrs I. Given my findings on the nature of the 
misrepresentation, I dont believe Mrs Is been treated unfairly in this regard. 
Mrs Is argued she cancelled the policy because she changed her mind about having a car, 
and that she did so before Admiral cancelled it. The suggestion being that, as she says, if 
she cancelled the policy before Admiral did, then it wouldnt have placed a marker against 
her name on the database in the first place.
Taking into account everything that happened, together with how it happened, it seems likely 
to me that Admiral cancelled the policy before Mrs I was able to do so. I realise that not all 
the correspondence Admiral sent on this issue was as clear as it could have been. But I can 
see that on 3 April 2017 Admiral wrote to Mrs I to say it hadnt received a reply to its 
previous requests for an explanation regarding the false NCB evidence. As a result, Admiral 
said it had cancelled the policy with effect that day. I cant see that Mrs I cancelled the policy 
before then.
Im aware that Admiral also emailed Mrs I on 10 April 2017 to chase payment of the 
additional premium and gave seven days notice that failure to pay would result in the policy 
being cancelled. I appreciate that both emails cant be true, and that the policy was either 
cancelled on 3 April or it wasnt. Given Admirals concerns about the details surrounding 
Mrs Is policy application and her lack of response, I find it more likely than not that Admiral 
cancelled the policy when it says it did on 3 April and that the correspondence it 
subsequently sent was issued in error. I believe that is whats primarily caused the confusion 
as to who cancelled the policy and when it was cancelled.   
Fraud prevention agency database
While I think that Admiral was entitled to cancel the policy as it did, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it was fair for it to also arrange for a marker to be placed against Mrs Is name on 
the relevant fraud prevention database. 
The starting point for me was the policy terms and conditions, which state:
If you give us false or inaccurate information and we suspect or identify fraud, we will 
record it and may also pass this information to [fraud prevention agencies] and other 
organisations involved in the prevention of crime and fraud.  
Similar wording was included in other documentation Admiral sent to Mrs I, including the 
Motor Proposal Confirmation form. Admiral says the marker was placed in line with this 
wording and with the agencys principles. The principles include, among other things, that its standard of proof must be met. The 
standard includes that the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that Admiral 
could confidently report the conduct of Mrs I to the police (even though theres no obligation 
to make such a report). 
Ive no doubt that Admirals entitled to request a marker be placed in certain circumstances. 
However, it seems to me that it has discretion over whether to do so and that this should 
nevertheless be done in line with the agencys principles. Tellingly, in its file submissions to 
us, Admiral said:
Whilst [I] sympathise with [Mrs I] being a victim of a ghost broker, she had multiple 
opportunities to correct the information provided and review the fraudulent document 
before she had provided it to us
It seems to me, and Id agree, that Admiral at least suspects Mrs I wasnt in any way 
attempting to defraud Admiral when she applied for the policy. Rather she herself fell victim 
to a fraudster and, in my view, didnt take appropriate care in ensuring the information she 
was passing on to Admiral was correct. In which case, I think its difficult to argue Admiral 
met the agencys standard of proof of having enough evidence to potentially report Mrs Is 
conduct to the police, despite saying in its response to my provisional decision that it did. 
Only now has Admiral confirmed the type of marker that was added to Mrs Is name. 
Namely, that it was for application fraud. Markers for which, I understand, stay on record for 
six years. Which would explain why Mrs I unsuccessfully tried to apply for bank accounts 
more recently.  
Admirals provided further comments as to why it added the marker, explaining that it 
believes Mrs I was complicit in the fraud and intended to deceive Admiral into offering cover 
at a cheaper price than would otherwise have been the case. But I still dont believe that 
Admirals done enough to demonstrate Mrs I was aware of the fraud. I say this because, 
from what Ive seen, Mrs I was relatively inexperienced in financial matters and was probably 
naive in paying for help as she did. Whats more, Ive little doubt that her actions could fairly 
be described as reckless as Ive said above. But I think its too great a leap for Admiral to 
argue that what she did amounted to fraud. I think those allegations are based more on 
suspicion than on the available evidence. And I think that argument isnt consistent with it 
acknowledging that Mrs I was herself a victim of a ghost broker. That also suggests to me a 
lack of complicity on Mrs Is part.   
So, in the circumstances, Im still satisfied that Admiral should arrange for the marker to be 
removed with immediate effect. 
Mrs I wants me to make an award for the financial loss she says she also suffered. Im 
satisfied that shes provided evidence to show her Help to Buy ISA was closed due to the 
database entry. But before I can fairly make an award for this, Id need to see evidence 
showing she lost out financially as a result of the cancellation.  
Mrs I wants compensation for missing out on a government bonus worth £1,000. But while I 
can see she opened the ISA and that it was likely closed soon afterwards due to Admirals 
actions, I cant be sure as to what bonus, if any, shed have otherwise received. Thats 
because I cant say on balance that shed have kept the ISA open, for how long, what if 
anything shed have deposited in it or what she might have withdrawn from it.
For these reasons, I still believe Admiral should pay Mrs I £300 in compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience it caused her. But I make no award for the financial loss she 
alleges as I dont have sufficient evidence to be satisfied that she suffered the losses she says she incurred.  
Putting things right
Admiral should: 
Remove the marker it placed on the fraud database in relation to Mrs I with 
immediate effect.
pay Mrs I £300 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience its actions have 
caused her.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to put things right for Mrs I as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman