DRN-3897486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
trip under their travel insurance policy. All references to AWP include the agents appointed 
to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R are insured under a travel insurance policy provided by AWP. 
Mr and Mrs R were due to go on holiday but, unfortunately, Mr R had an accident, and they 
were unable to travel. Mr and Mrs R made a claim with AWP for the cost of their holiday, but 
AWP declined the claim. AWP said Mr and Mrs Rs policy didnt cover claims arising from a 
policyholder drinking too much alcohol. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs R complained to AWP before bringing the matter to the attention of 
our service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought 
AWP should accept Mr and Mrs Rs claim. Mr and Mrs R agreed with our investigators 
findings, but AWP didnt respond. As no resolution was reached, the complaint has been 
referred to me as the final stage in our process.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in January 2023. In it, I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I dont agree with our investigators assessment of 
the available evidence, or with the findings she reached. I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides cover for the cancellation of a holiday due to injury in certain 
circumstances. But the general exclusions set out on page 41 of the terms and conditions 
say: 
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from: 

11. You drinking too much alcohol  where it is reasonably foreseeable that such 
consumption could result in an impairment of your faculties and/or judgement 
resulting in a claim. We do not expect you to avoid alcohol  but we will not cover 
any claims arising because you have drunk so much alcohol that your judgement is 
seriously affected and you need to make a claim as a result.  
Exclusions like this are common in most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market 
and Im satisfied that the wording of the exclusion is clear. Its for AWP to demonstrate that 
the exclusion applies, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for AWP to decline every claim 
where a policyholder has had a drink. But this doesnt mean that AWP needs to prove 
beyond doubt that Mr R had consumed alcohol to a certain level and/or that the accident 
was caused solely because of alcohol. I cant determine with any certainty how much alcohol 
Mr R had consumed at the time in question, or exactly what caused his accident  nor can 
AWP. Instead, what I need to decide is what I think is most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances, based on the evidence which is available to me. 
Ive taken into account everything Mrs R has said. I understand Mrs R says Mr R tripped on 
one of their animals and that he told the hospital this on a number of occasions. I also 
understand that alcohol can affect different individuals in different ways, and I note the 
statistics quoted by Mrs R relating to the frequency of certain accidents. But Mr Rs hospital 
discharge report states that he was brought to hospital after falling  under the influence of 
alcohol. This report is contemporaneous medical evidence that Mr R had consumed alcohol 
to an extent that was identifiable by the paramedic who brought him to hospital, and which 
the paramedic thought was noteworthy to state on Mr Rs medical records. I think this report 
carries significant persuasive weight. 
Therefore, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances for AWP to rely on 
this medical evidence to decline Mr and Mrs Rs claim based on general exclusion 11 set out 
in the policy which Ive quoted above. Our investigator noted that the hospital discharge 
report doesnt state how much alcohol Mr R had to drink. But I wouldnt necessarily expect it 
to. And whether I think Mr R acted recklessly doesnt change my findings. Overall, this 
means I dont currently intend to direct AWP to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs R responded to say they were disappointed with my findings and asked that I 
consider directing AWP to make them a reduced payment, because no-one can determine 
how much Mr R had to drink. They said the paramedic knew Mr R had a drink because Mrs 
R had told them so. 
AWP responded to my provisional decision to say it had paid Mr and Mrs Rs claim at the 
end of November 2022 but Mr and Mrs R told our investigator that they hadnt received any 
payment from AWP. AWP subsequently told us that no payment was made to Mr and Mrs R. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWPs responses to my provisional decision are surprising and disappointing and leave Mr 
and Mrs R in an unnecessarily uncertain position. AWP, having never responded to our 
investigators initial findings, has now provided us with incorrect information about the claim 
having been paid. AWP has offered no explanation as to why it would suddenly have paid Mr 
and Mrs Rs claim in November 2022, why it provided us with incorrect information and/or 
whether it still intends to pay the claim payment which it told us had already been made. If I 
had the power to award compensation to Mr and Mrs R for AWPs actions in this regard, 
then I would do so. 
But however unsatisfactory I find AWPs position and engagement with our service about 
this complaint to be, this doesnt change my decision that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for 
AWP to decline Mr and Mrs Rs claim. There arent any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask AWP to pay part of Mr and Mrs Rs claim as theyve suggested  this simply 
isnt how policy exclusions like this work. Im satisfied that AWP has demonstrated that 
general exclusion 11 applies to Mr and Mrs Rs claim, which means AWP is entitled to 
decline the claim in its entirety. So, I wont be changing my provisional decision and I wont be directing AWP to do anything 
more. Mr and Mrs R will need to contact AWP directly if they wish to obtain any further 
information about why AWP said it had paid their claim in November 2022 and/or whether 
AWP still intends to make this payment to them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman