DRN-3332106
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a declined mortgage application with Santander UK Plc, which 
meant that he had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) on his existing mortgage. He is 
unhappy Santander didnt tell him about its lending criteria at the beginning of the application 
process, in that it didnt lend on properties that had more than ten acres of land. He 
considers Santander should have conducted a basic assessment of the property he was 
proposing to buy at an early stage, rather than simply waiting for the valuation. 
In settlement of the complaint Mr C wants Santander to refund him the ERC, compensate 
him and his wife for the loss they incurred having to encash ISAs in order to pay the ERC, 
reimburse both broker and legal fees for the new application, and pay them compensation.
What happened
In 2019 Mr C took out a mortgage with Santander. Attached to the mortgage was an interest 
rate product. The product was due to end in March 2024 and if the mortgage was repaid 
(either in full or part) before that date an ERC was payable. However, if a new mortgage was 
taken with Santander, the interest rate product could be transferred (ported) to the new 
mortgage and the ERC wouldnt need to be paid. 
In 2021 Mr C and his family decided to move. He applied for a new mortgage with Santander 
on 20 January 2021 and asked to port the existing interest rate product over to the new 
mortgage. Mr C was asked questions about the property he was proposing to buy  the 
basis of the purchase (freehold), the format of the property (number of rooms) and its age. 
Mr C confirmed that it was a detached, five-bedroom house built in the 1820s. There wasnt 
a garage, but there was a drive, although he hesitated slightly over the latter answer. 
Santander didnt ask how much land was associated with the property and Mr C didnt 
volunteer that information. 
There were some questions regarding affordability in the early stage of the application 
assessment, but these were resolved, and the application was accepted in principle at the 
end of March 2021, subject to the property being suitable security. The valuation was then 
commissioned and arranged for 20 April 2021.
The valuation didnt take place as the valuer cancelled it. This was because the valuer noted 
the acreage of the plot the house sat in  it was advertised as a commercial small holding 
with 40+ acres of land and with two properties on it. 
The Santander adviser looked to see if there were any options that could mean it could allow 
the mortgage. However, on 23 April 2021 it was confirmed that Santander would definitely 
not offer the mortgage due to the nature of the property. Santander refunded the £805 
valuation fee to Mr C.
Mr C complained. Santander responded to Mr Cs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said 
that it had listened to the telephone conversations relating to the application and hadnt been 
able to identify any errors in the service hed received. It said that it couldnt list all the 
restrictions surrounding the type of properties it lends on in each call, and thats why it 
guides customers not to exchange contracts until after the valuation has been completed 
and a formal mortgage offer has been issued. Once it was aware of the amount of land 
attached to the property Mr C was proposing to buy, it had tried to find a way of progressing 
the application, but it wasnt possible to find a solution. Santander said that as it hadnt 
identified any service failures, it wouldnt refund the ERC. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the complaint to this service. He 
explained that as he had a mortgage offer, he thought that it was alright to exchange 
contracts on the property he was purchasing. Had he been told that Santander wouldnt lend 
on the property he was proposing to buy, he would have made different decisions and 
possibly not moved to that area at all, as his wife had a job offer in a different area of the UK. 
In particular, he was unhappy that they had to find the money to pay the ERC and that 
Santander insisted on it being paid despite a complaint having been made. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he felt that the key questions 
Santander needed to answer were still unanswered. He felt that the investigator hadnt 
addressed his concerns and had ignored Santanders obligation under the Consumer Rights 
Act to be transparent and clear. He remained of the opinion that Santander should have 
assessed the nature of the property at an early stage of the application process and before 
the valuation. Mr C asked that the case be passed to someone else for review.
Subsequently, Mr C obtained and sent us a copy of a guide produced for the use of financial 
advisers and mortgage brokers, when considering a mortgage with Santander. He 
highlighted that on page 29 of the document it detailed that it didnt lend on properties that 
had a large acreage. He put forward that this document was used to assess at stage one 
whether the mortgage was right for the applicant. He highlighted that he was never shown 
this document and the restrictions on the type of property Santander would lend on were 
never discussed with him. 
Our investigator requested further information from Santander and considered Mr Cs further 
comments. He discussed the documents that Mr C had provided and the one that Mr C was 
provided with by Santander, along with the process Santander went through during the 
application. He wasnt persuaded that Santander was obliged to assess the property against 
its lending criteria at the outset of the application. As such he remained of the view that 
Santander hadnt made an error in not being aware of the acreage linked to the property 
Mr C wanted to buy before it was pointed out by the valuer.  
Mr C still didnt agree, and it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to provide mortgages for. Many 
lenders wont lend on a property that has a large amount of land attached to it. A lender is 
entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats not 
something this service would normally look to interfere with. 
When Mr C applied for a mortgage Santander asked for some basic information about the 
property he was proposing to buy and what he intended to use it for. Thats normal and I wouldnt expect it to do anything more at that stage. It then went on to ask questions about 
Mr C, his income, circumstances and future plans. Having completed an assessment of the 
information provided Santander agreed in principle to lend Mr C the money he wanted for 
the new purchase. Santander then employed a suitably qualified expert to assess the 
property and decide whether it was suitable security for the amount Mr C wanted to borrow. 
It is normal for a lender to employ an external expert for this stage of the process as most 
lenders are not property experts and are not usually able to assess whether a property is a 
suitable risk. 
In his last response to the investigator, Mr C said that Santander should never have offered 
him a mortgage. I should clarify that Santander didnt offer Mr C a mortgage. Rather it 
agreed to assess his application. It had done some of the assessments needed  those 
about him and his circumstances and had confirmed that it had no concerns. It was willing to 
lend as long as the remaining part of the assessment  that on the property  was 
acceptable.  Lenders often complete the assessment of the consumer first, because in most 
cases it doesnt involve additional cost to the consumer. Whereas, the assessment of the 
property does as it uses external expertise. It was Mr Cs choice to take the risk of 
exchanging contracts before he had a mortgage offer, as Santander did recommend against 
that happening.
Mr C believes that Santander should have looked up the property when he gave it the 
address in order to complete its own assessment of it. As I have said above, lenders are not, 
in general, property experts and I wouldnt expect it to do what Mr C has suggested. That 
said, there is nothing to stop a consumer providing additional information about a property if 
they think its something that the lender should know about, for example if the property is 
unusual. If that were done, the lender would be expected to listen and if there was 
something obvious that would cause problems with an application, I would expect the lender 
to act on it. Had Mr C volunteered to Santander that the house he was buying sat in over 
forty acres, I believe that Santander would likely have stopped the application at a much 
earlier stage. However, having listened to the recordings of Mr Cs conversations with 
Santander, I am satisfied that he didnt make it aware that the property was unusual in that 
there was a significant amount of land with the house.  
Mr C has provided a copy of an intermediaries guide produced by Santander. He has 
highlighted that it documents that Santander wont lend on properties with a significant 
amount of land. I would firstly explain that this is not a document that is designed for the use 
of a consumer, it is there for the use of mortgage brokers and independent IFAs when they 
are providing advice to their customers. It does set out details of types of properties that 
Santander likely wont lend on so that if there is something obvious about a property that 
would mean Santander wont lend on it, the broker wont waste its customers time applying 
for a mortgage they wont get. 
Most lenders provide such guides for brokers and I am sure that when Mr C had to seek a 
specialist mortgage for his purchase, his broker would have used guides such as the one 
involved here in order to identify lenders it wasnt worth applying to. However, the same 
principle applies to a broker as it does to a lender. They are not generally property experts 
and so dont complete an assessment of the property during the advice process, but if they 
are told something about a property by the customer that means the property is unusual, 
such guides will allow them to know if and how it would affect an application. 
I dont consider Santander acted inappropriately in declining Mr Cs mortgage application for 
the new property, as it clearly fell outside its lending criteria and wouldnt have been suitable 
security. I am also not persuaded that it did anything wrong in not assessing the suitability of 
the property at an earlier stage of the process, given it wasnt aware that it was unusual. So when Mr C paid off his mortgage, it was not unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC 
that he had accepted as part of the mortgage he had entered into.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
23 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman