DRN-3739033
The complaint
Mrs P, a sole trader, is unhappy that TSB Bank plc terminated her Bounce Bank Loan 
(BBL) agreement and demanded full repayment of the outstanding balance.
What happened
Mrs P held a business bank account with TSB. In November 2020, she successfully applied 
to TSB for a £20,000 BBL. In June 2021, after completing a review of Mrs Ps accounts, TSB 
made the decision to close Mrs Ps business bank account and to terminate the BBL 
agreement. Mrs P wasnt happy about this, especially as it meant that TSB were demanding 
full repayment of the BBL from her, and so she raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mrs Ps complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs P by 
taking the decision to close her accounts as they had. Mrs P wasnt satisfied with TSBs 
response and felt TSB hadnt given a fair explanation as to why theyd taken the decisions 
about her accounts that they had. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel TSBs decisions were 
incorrect or unfair and noted that TSB werent obliged to provide the explanation to Mrs P 
that she wanted. Mrs P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mrs P to have been told by TSB that 
theyd taken the decision to close her business bank account and to terminate her BBL 
agreement following a review of her accounts.
However, in the same way as a customer can choose which bank they apply to open an 
account with, a bank is also entitled to choose whether it will offer, or continue to offer, its 
services to a particular person. And its included in the terms of TSBs accounts that they can 
close accounts, either with notice or with immediate effect, depending on circumstance.
Mrs P would like an explanation as to why TSB are no longer willing to provide banking 
services to her. TSB arent obliged to provide an explanation to Mrs P as she would like 
here. But they have provided an explanation of their reasoning to this service for my 
consideration. And, having reviewed TSBs reasons for closing Mrs Ps accounts, I can 
confirm that Im satisfied that TSBs decisions were based on reasonable premises and that 
TSB havent acted unfairly in making the decision to close Mrs Ps accounts that they did.
I appreciate this may not fully satisfy Mrs Ps desire to clearly understand why TSB are no 
longer willing to offer business banking services to her. But I hope that she finds some 
comfort in knowing that an impartial third-party has looked at this matter for her and is 
satisfied that no unfair outcome has occurred.  
Regarding the terminating of Mrs Ps BBL agreement specifically; for a BBL application to 
have been successful, the applicant business must have self-declared that it met the BBL 
eligibility criteria set out by the British Business Bank, who administered the scheme. BBL 
applicant businesses had to declare their annual business turnover, with a business only 
able to apply for a loan amount no greater than one quarter of its annual turnover amount.
In this instance, it appears that Mrs P applied for several BBLs, providing notably different 
amounts for her business turnover throughout those applications. Mrs P may point out that 
because her business had only recently begun trading, she was using estimates of the 
business turnover in the applications  as was allowed by the BBL scheme. But the review of 
Mrs Ps accounts that TSB undertook confirmed that Mrs Ps actual turnover for the 2019/20 
tax year was approximately £20,000  far less than the £80,000 turnover that Mrs P had 
declared on the BBL application to TSB that was ultimately successful, and which allowed 
her to receive a BBL from TSB for £20,000.
It therefore seems reasonable to me that TSB would be concerned that Mrs P might not in 
fact have been eligible to receive the BBL that she did. And its also notable that when TSB 
asked Mrs P for further information to evidence her business  such as statements, invoices, 
photographs, and business correspondence  that Mrs P didnt provide that requested 
information to TSB, which I feel she reasonably could and should have done here. 
Because of the unique social circumstances that led to the BBL scheme, and the rapidity 
with which banks such as TSB were asked to process BBL applications, there is an 
expectation that TSB would review successful BBL applications and take action where an 
applicant isnt considered to have been eligible for the BBL they applied for. Im satisfied that 
this is what TSB have done here, and Im also satisfied  given what Ive explained above  
that TSB havent acted unfairly in terminating Mrs Ps BBL agreement or to have demanded 
full repayment of the BBL balance from her, following their review.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs P was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action. I trust that Mrs P will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman