DRN-3299825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that, because they were given incorrect information by Bank 
of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
they repaid their mortgage and switched to another lender.
What happened
In 2018, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, Mr and Mrs M took 
out a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage offer states that it was at an initial fixed rate until 
31 October 2021.
In early March 2021 Mr M contacted Halifax and explained that he was in a fixed rate until 
October 2021, but he and Mrs M were considering taking out additional borrowing or 
possibly re-mortgaging. Mr M wanted to know what costs were involved in this. It was 
confirmed to Mr M that the fixed rate was due to end on 31 October 2021 and that if he was 
looking to review the mortgage and rearrange it with Halifax, an application could be 
considered at any point from 1 August 2021 onwards. The further advance application could 
be considered sooner, but Mr M explained there was no rush for this, as he currently had 0% 
interest on his unsecured borrowing until the end of October.
Mr M asked about moving to a different lender, and was told that he could do this from 
1 August 2021 without incurring an ERC. This, however, was incorrect; it was only if 
Mr and Mrs M arranged a new mortgage with Halifax within three months of the end date of 
the fixed rate that the ERC would be waived. It didnt apply to a new mortgage with a 
different lender.
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs M were given a redemption statement which showed an ERC. Mr M 
complained and, after listening to the call from March 2021, Halifax agreed that incorrect 
information had been given. Halifax agreed to pay £300 compensation for this, but didnt 
agree to waive the ERC. 
On 16 August 2021 Mr and Mrs M received a mortgage offer from their new lender, for a 
five-year fixed rate product. The mortgage offer didnt expire until 16 February 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M said theyd stay with Halifax if it was able to match the borrowing and interest 
rate theyd been offered by their new lender. However, Halifax didnt have an equivalent 
product in its portfolio, and it didnt create bespoke rates for individual borrowers. 
Mr and Mrs M completed on their new mortgage on 23 August 2021, redeeming the Halifax 
mortgage and paying an ERC of just over £1,550.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, as they wanted 
the ERC reimbursed. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He thought the £300 offered by Halifax for giving incorrect information was fair. But 
he thought Mr and Mrs M could have waited until 1 November 2021 to complete their new 
mortgage and thus avoided paying the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings. They say that it was only when they 
were given the redemption statement at the end of July 2021 that they first became aware of 
the ERC. They were concerned that if they didnt complete immediately with their new 
lender, they would lose the rate offered to them. Furthermore, they are both very busy 
people, and had put time into setting up their new mortgage. They didnt want to delay 
matters or have to go through another application process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs M say they incurred the ERC as a result of 
relying on incorrect information given to them by Halifax. Its not disputed Mr and Mrs M 
were told they could arrange a new mortgage with a different lender without incurring an 
ERC in the last three months of their fixed rate. The bank has fully acknowledged this was 
incorrect. 
Where a mistakes been made, I have to try to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. I also have to look at whether Mr and Mrs M 
have done everything they could have done to mitigate any financial loss.
Mr and Mrs M were aware by 30 July 2021 that Halifax had given them the wrong 
information and that they would, in fact, incur an ERC if they went to a new lender. 
Mr and Mrs M had been given an illustration by their lender which they say showed the 
product expiring on 6 August 2021. 
However, I see that on 16 August 2021  the date after which Mr and Mrs M say they 
thought the product expired  they received their mortgage offer from their new lender. This 
shows that the offer didnt expire until 16 February 2022. It was, in fact, the illustration which 
expired on 6 August 2021.
Mr and Mrs M say they were worried that if they didnt complete on the new mortgage 
immediately, theyd lose the fixed rate. But thats not how fixed rate mortgages work. 
Lenders borrow money in the wider money markets at particular rates of interest, as a result 
of which they will have an amount of money available to lend at a specific rate. Borrowers 
can apply for a tranche of that money, and sometimes pay a fee for this. (Its not stated on 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer if they paid a fee or not.) Once the funds for that particular 
rate have all been reserved, the rate is withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage offer which said that their rate was available until 16 February 
2022. So I find they could have completed on the new mortgage at any time up to that point, 
as the funds at that rate had been reserved for them. If Mr and Mrs M werent clear about 
this, they could have asked their new lender to clarify the position and confirm the latest 
point when they could accept the mortgage offer and keep the same rate. I dont know if 
Mr and Mrs M asked their new lender about this or not. But if they did ask and were told by 
their new lender that they had to complete immediately, thats something theyll need to take 
up with that business.
The evidence is persuasive that Mr and Mrs M knew in August 2021 when they received 
their new mortgage offer that they had until 16 February 2022 to complete on it. Given this, I 
am satisfied Mr and Mrs M could, if theyd wanted to, have stayed on their existing fixed rate 
with Halifax until 31 October 2021, and then moved onto the new fixed rate with their new 
lender. If theyd done this, they would have avoided paying the ERC. So although Im satisfied Halifax did give Mr and Mrs M incorrect information, once this came 
to light, Mr and Mrs M could have mitigated their position and avoided paying the ERC 
simply by waiting until the end of October 2021 before they moved to their new lender. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded there is any basis on which it would be fair or reasonable 
for Halifax to refund the ERC to Mr and Mrs M. 
Halifax offered £300 compensation for giving Mr and Mrs M incorrect information in March 
2021, which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont think Halifax needs 
to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman