DRN-2760777
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T is unhappy with the service received from Melton Mowbray Building 
Society (MMBS) with regard issues surrounding the closure of the late Mrs Ts account.
What happened
Mr T, the son of the late Mrs T and an executor of the estate of Mrs T, wrote to MMBS on 3 
March 2020 advising that Mrs T had sadly passed away and including the necessary 
paperwork to close the late Mrs Ts account, including the original death certificate, which he 
asked to be returned as soon as possible. Mr T also asked for the balance of the account to 
be transferred to his own account and for MMBS to return the passbook and include a 
receipt to confirm that the transfer had taken place.
MMBS replied to Mr T on 6 April 2020, although the letter wasnt received by Mr T until 15 
April 2020. In their letter, MMBS enclosed the death certificate and a statutory declaration 
form which MMBS required to be completed and returned to them in order for the account to 
be closed.
Mr T wasnt happy that MMBS had taken over a month to respond to him, and he also wasnt 
happy that MMBS hadnt enclosed a pre-paid envelope or that the statutory declaration form 
hadnt been partially completed by MMBS. So, on behalf of the estate of Mrs T, Mr T made a 
complaint.
MMBS looked at the estate of Mrs Ts complaint, but they didnt feel that the time taken to 
respond to Mr Ts initial letter had been excessive, and they noted that they no longer 
provided pre-paid envelopes to customers, and that they wouldnt pre-fill a statutory 
declaration form. So, they didnt uphold the estate of Mrs Ts complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with MMBSs response, so he referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that MMBS hadnt taken 
an unreasonable amount of time to respond to Mr T, and agreed that the matters of the pre-
paid envelope and the pre-filling of forms were decisions that it was at MMBSs discretion to 
make. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has explained to this service that he is seeking compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has incurred with regard his dealings the MMBS. Its therefore important to 
confirm immediately that this isnt an award that this service would be able to consider. 
The reason for this is because awards of compensation for distress or inconvenience cant 
be awarded to third parties, including an executor of an estate. This service can make 
awards to an estate to compensate it for material financial loss. But the estate hasnt 
suffered a material financial loss in this instance, which means that there is no issue of 
potential compensation for material financial loss to consider.
Mr T is unhappy that MMBS took over a month to respond to his initial letter. I can 
understand Mr Ts frustration here, but Im not convinced that MMBSs response was 
excessively late, especially when its considered that like all businesses at that time, MMBS 
were operating within the unique and unprecedented restrictions imposed because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It also must be remembered that postal services were also operating 
within the same restrictive environment, and that MMBSs letter may have been received late 
by Mr T because of this. 
Mr T has also expressed dissatisfaction that MMBS didnt partially complete the statutory 
declaration form for him. However, given the nature of the statutory declaration form, it 
wouldnt be expected by this service that such a form would be pre-filled by a business. 
Indeed, given the potential consequences if the form contained inaccurate information, its 
appropriate that this form should be completed in its entirety by the person to whom the form 
is sent.
Similarly, Mr T is unhappy that MMBS didnt provide a pre-paid envelope for him to refer the 
completed statutory declaration form in. But the provision or non-provision of a pre-paid 
envelope by a business is something which it is at the discretion of that business to decide, 
and I dont consider it to be the case that a business taking the decision to not provide a pre-
paid envelope results in consumer detriment in any way.
Mr T has also referenced the fact that MMBS didnt supply a receipt confirming the transfer 
of funds from the late Mrs Ts account to his own as he requested. But MMBS have 
explained that this receipt wasnt sent because the letter was sent to the late Mrs Ts 
address, which meant that enclosing a receipt for Mr Ts personal account, held by Mr T at a 
different address, constituted a potential information and data protection risk. This makes 
sense to me, and Im satisfied that MMBS acted reasonably by not including this receipt, 
although I acknowledge the MMBS could have explained this point more clearly in the letter 
which Mr T received. 
Finally, Mr T has expressed his unhappiness that the final complaint response letter from 
MMBS to him was sent to him later than it should have been. Im unable to comment on this 
aspect of this complaint, because complaints about how a business has handled a complaint 
- which include the timing of complaint response letters - falls outside the remit of this service 
and so isnt something that we can consider.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that MMBS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
MMBS to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of Mrs T was wanting here, but I hope 
that they can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman