DRN-3484582
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Revolut Ltd. 
In summary, he says Revolut did the following: 
Failed to provide, when requested to do so, a statement showing how much he had 
left in his account. 
Closed his account without warrant, reinstated it, and then closed it again.  
Sold shares without his consent. He wants to see details  of sale information  
before he withdraws his money.
Failed to provide a clear explanation of what was happening. 
What happened
On 21 October 2020, Mr Cs account was suspended by Revolut and put under review. On 
27 October 2020 he was told that his account would be permanently closed. Consequently, 
on 10 November 2020, Revolut sold all the shares it held for Mr C.  
I understand that the proceeds of the sale were in due course credited to his trading account 
in USD, held in an investment pocket.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Under clause of 8 of its trading terms and conditions, Revolut is permitted to sell 
shares without notice, because Mr C failed to comply with its request  to provide 
information  back in October 2020. His account was then duly closed. 
On 14 December 2020 Mr C was (incorrectly) notified in an email that his account 
was reinstated. Consequently, when he went back, he was concerned to see that 
there was nothing in his trading account. He was then told that his shares had been 
sold and his funds moved to a USD currency pocket, where he could withdraw his 
funds. 
On 21 December 2020, following a webchat, Mr Cs funds were moved from USD to 
GBP currency, so that he could access his funds. Following discussions, Revolut 
also agreed to refund fees  in the sum of £103.19  that Mr C had been (incorrectly) 
charged.
Revolut explained that the email of 14 December 2020 was an automated email, so 
that Mr C could make arrangements for his funds under clause 8 of the terms and 
conditions. Revolut accepts that this mightve been confusing so has offered Mr C 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
By February 2021, Revolut still failed to provide a definitive answer as to why Mr C 
received an email about his account being re-opened. He also asked for the 
statements relating to his statements, but none was provided.  
The investigator understands that on 3 March 2021 Revolut sent Mr C a transactional 
history of his account. She also sent Mr C statements and hopes these will provide 
him with the information he needs. If he needs anything else, he should contact 
Revolut first. 
Overall, Revolut has acted in line with its terms and conditions that Mr C wouldve 
agreed to when he took out the account. Once his funds have been withdrawn his 
account will close.    
The £100 compensation offered  for the confusing information  is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. She wont be asking the business to increase its 
offer. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said: 
Hes disappointed that the investigator thinks Revolut behaved appropriately in this 
instance and that it was entitled to close his account.  
The investigators view doesnt consider his complaint which relates to how he was 
treated.  
He doesnt dispute the legality of Revolut closing his account, despite him complying 
with its request. 
His complaint is about Revoluts handling of his assets and money. 
The statement he received from the investigator is the first statement hes received in 
a year which amounts to negligence on its part. 
Hes unhappy about the time restraints put on him. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im unable to safely 
say that this complaint should be upheld.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr C and Revolut, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Im aware that Mr C wants Revolut reprimanded. But unlike the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), its not my role to punish or reprimand the business for any 
wrongdoing. I understand that under clause 8 of its trading terms and conditions, Revolut is permitted to 
sell shares without notice to its customer. I understand that Mr C failed to comply with its 
request to provide information  back in October 2020  and thats why it duly closed his 
account. 
Based on what Revolut says, I note clause 8 states the following:
We may close or suspend your Account and access to our trading services immediately, and 
end your access to the Revolut App, in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional 
circumstances include the following:
if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information we need, or we
have good reason to believe that information you have provided is incorrect or not true;
 if we have good reason to believe that continuing to use your account could damage our
reputation or goodwill;
I appreciate Mr C says that he complied with that request, but the business wasnt satisfied 
that he fulfilled the condition. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to safely conclude that Mr C did comply with regards to the source of funds request  
and he has provided no further evidence in response to the investigators view. Therefore, 
on balance, the business was  more likely (than not)  entitled to sell his shares with a view 
to closing his account. Im aware Revolut also maintains that it received no further 
instructions from Mr C about what to do. 
I understand that a business  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement  is entitled to set its terms and conditions of business and decide whether (or 
not) a customer has fulfilled those conditions. In this instance Im unable to say that Revolut 
has done anything wrong by concluding Mr C hasnt fulfilled the relevant condition(s)  
based on his actions in response to a request for information  and subsequently taking the 
action that it was entitled to. 
The above notwithstanding, I understand that a financial business isnt obliged to do 
business with a customer and is therefore entitled not to enter into an agreement in the first 
place, or if it feels that conditions of trading havent been met, to end that relationship. In this 
instance Revolut couldnt continue to offer its services to Mr C. It made clear it couldnt 
disclose any details regarding the review of his account or point out a reason that has raised 
a concern, as required by regulators. 
I note in a final response letter to Mr C the business said:
Finally, in relation to the off-boarding, we acted in line with our T&Cs (clause 24), as we can 
make commercial decisions about who we offer banking services to, and have the 
commercial freedom to decide who wed like to contract with. Hence, we exercised our 
commercial freedom legitimately when we decided to close the account.
In addition to the above points, based on Mr Cs latest response it seems to me that he 
accepts that Revolut did what it was entitled to do. Hes also made clear in response to the 
investigators view that, notwithstanding the above, his complaint is about the handling of his 
assets and money. 
Despite what Mr C says, I think the treatment of his assets and money is directly linked to 
this decision. Im not persuaded that the business behaved unreasonably in relation to this 
by taking steps to ensure that Mr C got his money back.  I agree with Revolut that the email of 14 December 2020 wasnt clear, therefore gave Mr C 
the impression that his account had been fully re-instated when it hadnt. Im mindful that the 
correspondence was generated automatically  in other words it was a generic email  and 
not tailored specifically to Mr Cs situation, therefore it wasnt done deliberately to mislead 
him. 
Despite what Mr C says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems that the 
account wasnt therefore closed, reinstated and closed again simply giving Mr C the run-
around  rather that was possibly left open or unlocked so that Mr C could make 
arrangements. 
In other words, Im persuaded that Revolut was trying to assist him in accessing his money. 
Based on what Mr C says, on balance Im not persuaded that this demonstrates that the 
closing of his account was unwarranted.   
In the circumstances, I think £100 compensation offered by Revolut for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this oversight and lack of clear communication is broadly fair and 
reasonable.   
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with Revoluts response and doesnt feel that hes received a 
definitive answer as to why all this happened. But in the circumstances, and on balance, I 
dont feel I need any more information in order to make a decision in this case.  
I understand that having initially sold Mr Cs shares and moved his money to a USD pocket  
so that he could withdraw his funds  on 21 December 2020, Revolut subsequently 
(following a webchat) moved Mr Cs funds from USD to GBP currency, so that he could 
access his funds  which I think is fair and reasonable despite Mr Cs concerns. I understand 
that the account and relationship with Revolut will cease once the money has been 
withdrawn. 
Im aware of the situation regarding the charges but I understand that following a webchat 
Revolut refunded/offered to refund the sum of £103.19 which I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
I understand that on 3 March 2021 Revolut sent Mr C a transactional history of his account 
(over 60 pages), and subsequently the investigator has provided further statements. Im 
sorry that Mr C is unhappy about the information received but Im unable to safely say that 
Revolut behaved unreasonably, given the status of his account.
If Mr C requires any further information or clarification about his account transactions 
following this decision, hes entitled to speak to Revolut about this. 
I appreciate that Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator and that I havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, I think the offer made by Revolut  to refund the fees charged and pay £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  is broadly fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by Revolut Ltd is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman