DRN-3761744
The complaint
Mr O complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) didnt do enough to protect him from the 
loss of money to a scam.
What happened
Mr O has said that he was contacted by scammers in 2018 who persuaded him to invest 
250 Euros in Bitcoin. He was hassled to invest more money but decided against it. He 
wrote off the 250 Euros as a bad experience. Later, in 2020, he was contacted by the 
scammers again and they convinced him that the company was now getting a licence and 
all previous customers (including him) would be paid 30,000 Euros. They also showed him 
what he believed to be an account in his name holding 8.7 Bitcoin. The catch was that they 
first required a hold of 25,000 Euros from him. Mr O was persuaded by this and in 
June 2020 a number of payments were made from his Wise account in this regard. 
Mr O got in touch with Wise seeking reimbursement when he realised hed been scammed. 
Ultimately Wise didnt recover or otherwise reimburse Mr O the lost funds, so Mr O referred 
his complaint about Wise to this service. As our investigator  who didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld  couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, but I dont uphold this complaint. I dont doubt 
the significant impact being a victim of a scam like this has had on Mr O. But it would only be 
fair for me to direct Wise to reimburse Mr O his loss if I think it is responsible for acts or 
omissions which caused it.
Im satisfied Mr O authorised the scam payments in question here. He consented to the 
payments after being persuaded by the scammers. I accept these were authorised 
payments even though Mr O was tricked by the scammers. So although Mr O didnt intend 
the money to ultimately be lost to scammers, hes presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
Mr O has highlighted industry guidance which broadly says businesses should be alert to 
uncharacteristic and unusual transactions with a view to protecting their customers from 
financial harm through fraud. I agree this is the case. But there is a balance to be struck. 
Mr O made multiple payments using the debit card associated with his Wise account, which 
was a multi-currency account. The evidence from Wise supports that this is an account to 
facilitate transfers between currencies. It isnt marketed or intended to be primarily used for 
daily expenditure and there is no evidence that Mr O used or intended to use the account in 
that way. Taking this into account, I cant fairly say the relevant payments from Mr Os Wise 
account ought reasonably to have appeared sufficiently suspicious or uncharacteristic to say 
that Wise ought to have been obliged to have intervened before allowing the payments 
through. This means Im satisfied I cant reasonably say Wise unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to prevent the payments before they were sent.
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Wise to have done anything 
further until Mr O notified it of the scam. Then, because these were debit card payments, the 
only avenue for potential recovery of the payments would have been through the chargeback 
scheme. However, Mr O made the payments using his Wise debit card to BTCBIT (and not 
directly to the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would 
be BTCBIT (and not the scammers). BTCBIT legitimately provided the services intended 
(which was the purchase of cryptocurrency). So I dont think these payments were 
recoverable through the chargeback scheme with Wise once they had been made.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, this means that I dont uphold this complaint about 
Wise. Im sorry Mr O lost money to a scam, but I cant reasonably hold Wise responsible for 
his loss when I dont think it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or recovered 
or otherwise reimbursed the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman