DRN-2424831
The complaint
Ms E has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Ms E took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Ms E. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms E about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has now paid her £200 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused as a 
result of this. 
Ms E hasnt accepted the £200 as settlement and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
I think the offer made by RSA is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of 
Ms Es complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost or how it should calculate risk. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a 
business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Es 
policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be 
charged less in the future.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA has treated her differently to how they would 
have treated any other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a 
lower premium going forwards.
I know that Ms E has found a cheaper policy with another provider. But I dont find this 
surprising as there are reasons why a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy that 
was taken out some time ago, and renewed each year since then.
A new policy wont provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and therell usually 
be an exclusion period, which limits the risk the insurer is taking - so a new policy will 
generally work out cheaper. In addition to that often a discount incentive will be applied to a 
new policy  its a common for insurers to offer this to attract new business. 
Insurers will also take into account the possibility a pet may have visited the vet since the 
policy started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too.  Its up to Ms E if she wants to continue 
with her RSA policy. If she is comfortable a new policy will offer her the level of cover she 
wants, she is able to cancel her policy and move to another provider. 
I understand Ms E will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome she had hoped for. 
I recognise that the situation has caused her upset and that the likely continuing increases in 
the premium in future years means she may not be able to afford to continue with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms E the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out. It is not my role to punish RSA. 
Ms E chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And as 
she chose to take out a lifetime policy she clearly wanted the greater level of cover it 
provided. If Ms E hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and 
would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, where 
she would still have found herself in a situation where her pets conditions were no longer 
covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if 
shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
I recognise that its possible Ms E may have gone with a different provider from the start, 
offering a similar policy. But its impossible to know what policy Ms E would have ended up 
with  it might have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I think its 
unlikely better information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted 
in Ms E paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance 
tend operate in a similar way - taking the same sort of factors into account when the 
premiums are calculated at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms E wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was aware could happen. 
The compensation RSA has paid recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Ms E has experienced. 
And I think it fairly compensates Ms E.My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Ms E £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
As Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance has already paid Ms E the £200. I dont require it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman