DRN-4411355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV hasnt paid enough to 
settle a claim on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a home insurance policy with Accelerant. The policy also covers the 
contents of their home and they have specified items listed on the policy. One of these items 
is a diamond ring. 
Mrs S was out seeing a friend and noticed the diamond in her ring was missing. As she was 
unable to find it, she claimed on her policy with Accelerant. The claim was reviewed and 
initially declined. Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair and asked Accelerant to reconsider 
it. 
Accelerant reconsidering the claim and accepted it but said Mr and Mrs S had declared the 
wrong value for the diamond ring. Accelerant said the rings value had been declared as 
£21,326, whereas it said it should have been £39,000. Accelerant therefore said it would 
settle the claim proportionately. It said Mr and Mrs S had paid £230.73 of their premium to 
cover the ring, whereas they should have paid £421.95. Because of this Accelerant offered 
54% of the declared value which amount to £11,665.32. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair and complained. They thought it would be fairer for 
Accelerant to pay up to the amount declared on the policy. Accelerant reviewed the 
complaint but didnt uphold it, so Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Accelerant had proportionately 
settled the claim in relation to the amount of the premium which had been paid to insure the 
ring. She said as the policy was sold as a whole, and the ring insured under one section of it, 
it would be fairer to pay proportionately on the whole premium. She therefore recommended 
it was upheld and asked Accelerant to pay 90.63% of the claim, this amount to £19,327.75. 
She also recommended Accelerant add 8% interest to the amount it pays, calculated from 
the date the claim had been paid until the date of settlement.  
Accelerant didnt agree. It said if it applied this approach to other cases where the amount 
insured hadnt been accurately declared, then it would mean other customers only have part 
of their claim paid. Whereas, under the approach Accelerant took it meant they would have 
100% of the claim paid if the underinsurance was on a different section of the policy. 
As Accelerant didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in cases like this is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
I dont think CIDRA strictly applies here though, as Mr and Mrs S have given an opinion 
rather than a statement of fact. However, I think its fair and reasonable to apply the 
principles of CIDRA. So, when a policy is purchased and a consumer gives an opinion on a 
question asked by an insurer, I think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to see whether 
that opinion is accurate to the best of a reasonable consumers knowledge.
And, if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer could look at what it would have done if it had
known the correct information when the policy was purchased. For an insurer to decline a 
claim or proportionately settle it. I believe that it is fair and reasonable for the insurer to show 
it would have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made
the misrepresentation.
Accelerant thinks Mr and Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they purchased the policy online. It said this is because the value of 
the ring was declared to be £21,326, whereas it should have been £39,000. 
Ive looked at policy documents sent to Mr and Mrs S and they show the value of the ring as, 
£21,326. While Accelerant hasnt provided the sales channel, Mr and Mrs S dont dispute 
that this value was incorrectly declared. Im also satisfied that it was clear Accelerant wanted 
to know the value of the ring. Ive therefore looked to see if Accelerant has shown it would 
have done something differently if it had known the correct value. 
Accelerant has provided evidence which shows if Mr and Mrs S had declared the correct 
value, then it would have charged £191.22 more than it did. This means Im satisfied that if 
Mr and Mrs Ss had declared the correct value that Accelerant would have charged a higher 
premium. 
Accelerant has agreed to pay the claim but settle it proportionately. This is in line with the 
remedies available in CIDRA for a qualifying misrepresentation. However, Im not persuaded 
Accelerant has calculated it in a fair and reasonable way. 
I say this as Accelerant has calculated the proportionate settlement in relation to the amount 
it charged to insure the diamond ring. However, Mr and Mrs S were provided with a total 
premium for the whole policy, not separate premiums, and policies, for different sections. 
This means Accelerant has paid 54% of the value declared. However, Mr and Mrs S paid 
£1,849.98 for their home insurance policy. This means if the additional £191.22 is added to 
what they paid, theyve actually paid 90.63% of what they should have. Im therefore 
satisfied in this particular case it would be fair and reasonable to base the calculation on the 
whole premium, not just the amount charged for that particular section. 
I understand Accelerant has said this would mean on other cases customers would lose out 
when the misrepresentation is on a section which doesnt relate to their claim. Ive 
considered this and Im not persuaded it means Accelerant needs to treat other customers 
less favourable than it intends, just that in this particular case Im not satisfied its been 
calculated is fair and reasonable. As it means Mr and Mrs S would receive £11,665.32 rather 
than 90.63% of the declared value which equates to £19,327.75. 
So, to be clear, Im not persuaded Accelerant has calculated the proportionate settlement 
fairly in this case. It therefore needs to pay Mr and Mrs S £19,327.75 to settle their claim, minus what it has already paid and any applicable policy excesses. It should also add 8% 
simple interest per year to the additional amount it pays to compensate Mr and Mrs S for not 
having the money. This should be calculated from the date of the interim payment until the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. I require 
Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV to pay Mr and Mrs S £19,327.75 to settle the claim for 
the diamond ring, minus what it has already paid and applicable policy excess. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per year to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date of 
the interim payment until the date of settlement.  
If Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman