DRN-3457643
The complaint
Miss C, through her representative, complains that she was approved for loans by 
Morses Club PLC she could not afford.
What happened
Using information from Morses here is a brief table of the approved loans.
loan date taken date repaid amount borrowed term weekly rate
1 03/11/2020 04/05/2021 £300 34w £15
2 01/02/2021 o/s £300 34w £15
3 04/05/2021 o/s £400 34w £20
After Miss C had complained, Morses replied and in its final response letter (FRL) it did not 
uphold her complaint.
One of our adjudicators thought that by loan 3 Miss C was showing signs of not being able to 
manage the repayments and some reliance on the credit.
Morses disagreed and said that Miss C had repaid faster than scheduled on Loan 1. And it 
said to us I appreciate when [Miss C] obtained loan 3, she still had loan 2 outstanding; 
however, the repayment for loan 2 was included in the expenditure when the affordability 
assessment was completed for loan 3. The assessment showed a total of 11.9% of 
[Miss Cs] uncommitted and available income was taken up by the repayments for loan 3. 
The combined repayment for loans 2 & 3 only used 8.7% of the customer's weekly income.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
On 9 September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I gave reasons as to why 
I considered that the complaint should not be upheld. 
I gave both parties time to respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
My provisional decision findings dated 9 September 2022
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint and I explain here.
Miss C gave to Morses her income which Morses has said it verified. And Miss C gave Morses her 
expenditure figures. That included £55 a week for other loans and having reviewed the credit file 
Morses obtained that figure of £55 a week did not match the information which showed in those 
results which was: Total monthly payments on all accounts excluding mortgages - which are currently 
active - £387. 
£55 a week amounts to £238 a month and so I think that even if Morses had calculated the additional 
£149 a month (equivalent of around £35 a week) into the figures it had for Miss C still I think it would 
have calculated that Miss C could afford the loans. 
The subtraction of the expenditure from her weekly income left her with what appeared to be plenty of 
available income to cover the repayments for loans 1 and 2. And my view is much the same for loan 3 
especially as the income Miss C declared to Morses (and it said it verified) had increased by about 
£40 a week for loan 3.
To assess whether it was appropriate to lend to her when she applied for loan 3 I did look at the 
repayment schedule and I have to agree with Morses  her repayment history  which is a factor to consider when lenders carry out affordability assessments  does not look to have been erratic or 
under strain.
Reviewing the credit search Morses carried out before loan 1 does reveal that Miss C had other debt 
and did have a history of County Court Judgments. The latest one was April 2018 and was several 
years before she applied for loan 1.
Overall, I do not agree that Miss Cs application for loan 3 came at a time which suggested she was 
reliant on its credit and had struggled to repay up to that point. And it had been a short period of time 
from applying for loan 1 and applying for loan 3.
I plan not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Response from the parties
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision and so I have no reason to alter the 
findings I came to in that provisional decision. They are repeated here and form the basis for 
me deciding that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman