DRN-2521202
The complaint
Mr H complains that the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva), in respect of an investment bond he holds with it, was poor. And for this he should 
be fairly compensated.
What happened
On 27 March 2020 Mr H says he rang Aviva to request the surrender of a bond he holds with 
it. However, he says he was advised that surrender over the phone wasnt possible and a 
surrender form would need to be sent out for completion and return.
On 2 April 2020 Mr H rang Aviva to say he had yet to receive the surrender form.
On 3 April 2020 Mr H complained to Aviva in writing.
On 14 April 2020 Mr H says he received Avivas final response to his complaint which was 
dated 2 April 2020.
On 22 April 2020 Mr H says he received a surrender form from Aviva. Its not clear, but it 
appears that this was sent either under cover of a letter dated 6 April 2020 (with a current 
surrender value of £20,252.70) or under cover of a letter dated 9 April 2020 (with a current 
surrender value of £20,259.25). 
On 4 May 2020 Aviva sent Mr H an investment bond summary. The current surrender value 
was noted as being £18,868.76.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Aviva had done nothing wrong.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is unhappy that Aviva wouldnt process his bond surrender request over the phone. But 
in my view, this is a commercial decision for Aviva to make and one that it would be neither 
fair nor reasonable for me to interfere with except to say that the practice of sending out 
surrender forms, rather than processing a surrender request over the phone, isnt 
uncommon and is often done for a policyholders own protection.
As well as being unhappy that Aviva wouldnt process his surrender request over the phone, 
Mr H is also unhappy that Aviva couldnt confirm when the surrender form would be sent out 
to him except that prior to the lockdown its aim was to send out surrender forms to 
policyholders within 10 working days.
Now given the effect the lockdown was having on businesses in March/April 2020, in 
particular financial businesses, I think that it was entirely appropriate for Aviva to have 
confirmed to Mr H that it couldnt confirm precisely when a surrender form would be sent to 
him. But even if Im wrong on this point, the fact is a surrender form was sent to Mr H within 
10 working days, one on 6 April 2020 and one on 9 April 2020, within Avivas pre-lockdown 
timescales and within a timescale that I think is entirely appropriate.
I can also confirm that having listened to the telephone call recordings provided to our 
service Im satisfied that Aviva acted professionally at all times when dealing with Mr Hs 
questions and queries. I would also add that I wouldnt expect the individual staff members 
that Mr H spoke with to have known the answers to all the questions he asked, or that the 
answers to those questions are material to my consideration of this complaint.
Finally, and assuming this is what happened, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in telling 
Mr H that it couldnt confirm how quickly it would be able to action a surrender request from 
him if he was to submit one on the appropriate form. I say this because, amongst other 
things, timescales in this respect are dependent on a number of factors including, but not 
limited to, the number of requests for surrender being made by Aviva policyholders and 
Avivas capacity to deal with them at any given point in time. I also think its worth reiterating 
that Mr H never actually returned a surrender form for processing by Aviva.
Given what I say above, I find that Aviva has done nothing wrong here and it need do 
nothing to compensate Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman