DRN-3042841
complaint
This complaint is about two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside personal loans in 1998 and 1999. It concerns the alleged mis-sale of 
payment protection insurance (PPI) by Nationwide Building Society.
This complaint includes Mrs T and the late Mr T. Ill refer to them as Mr and Mrs T 
throughout the decision.  
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policies both had a one-off upfront premium that was paid in advance by being added to 
the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan 
was repayable each month and the policy term matched that of the loan 
The policies provided cover for Mr T for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ts monthly loan repayment 
for the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and up to 12 months in the 
event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mr and Mrs T applied for a personal loan in 1998 through a postal application. 
Nationwide has been able to give me a copy of the application form. In this, there was a 
separate section called protecting your repayments with a yes and no choice within it. 
I can see that Mr T signed in the yes section to confirm he wanted to take out the PPI, 
and I think it was equally clear he could have signed in the no section if they didnt want 
it. They were then sent a personal loan agreement which set out the cost of both the loan 
and the PPI which it says is optional. This included the loan amount, the interest, the 
total payable and the monthly payment. It then indicated that Mr T was the insured party 
for the PPI and Mr and Mrs T signed the form to agree to its contents. Looking at this, I 
think it was clear the PPI was an optional, separate product and that Mr and Mrs T chose 
to take it out, knowing they didnt have to.
Nationwide has confirmed that Mr and Mrs T applied for their personal loan in 1999 
during a telephone call. Due to the length of time that has passed, they no longer have a 
copy of the telephone call recording, and cant provide me with a script that was in use at 
the time. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the sale happened 22 years ago. 
It has been able to provide me with the personal loan agreement, which was set out in 
the same way as the 1998 loan agreement. This had the cost of the PPI separate to the 
cost of the loan and labelled it as optional. Looking at this, and considering that they 
were aware of the optional nature of the 1998 PPI policy, I think its more likely that Mr 
and Mrs T chose to take out the 1999 PPI policy, knowing they didnt have to. 
  
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs T enough clear 
and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what Mr and Mrs T reasonably though they were buying from the 
information they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs T would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.But Mr and Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T, on behalf 
of herself and the late Mr T, to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman