DRN-2296425
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a collision with a motorcyclist. Mr R was turning right, and he said the 
motorcyclist overtook him at speed. He had a witness and dashcam footage of the bike 
shortly before the collision. Admiral appointed an independent investigator to interview Mr R. 
Admiral said that Mr Rs car was a total loss. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and he wanted to get an engineers assessment. But he said 
Admiral told him this would delay him receiving a courtesy car. The claim is likely to be 
settled 50/50 split liability. Mr R was unhappy with a number of aspects of the claim. He 
wanted compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had reasonably investigated the claim. She thought it was entitled to change its stance about 
liability on the basis of the evidence available. She thought it had reasonably not considered 
the dashcam footage as it didnt show the collision. She thought its customer service had 
been reasonable. She told Mr R that he would need to raise two concerns, about the 
courtesy car and the dashcam footage, with Admiral first to give it a chance to respond. 
Mr R replied that Admiral had initially told him that he would be held at fault as he had the 
greater duty of care. He wanted to see Admirals policy on this. He thought Admiral had 
failed to acknowledge the motorcyclists bad riding as shown in the dashcam footage. He 
thought Admirals customer service in the notification call could have led to him being held at 
fault. He also said that Admiral had told him that the dashcam footage may be less credible 
as it had been provided by someone he knew.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R has found dealing with the claim a frustrating experience. I can 
see that hes been disappointed with Admirals level of service. So Ive considered this in 
connection with what I think is his main concern about how Admiral investigated his claim 
and came to its decision on liability. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr R the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a 
common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. Mr R was concerned that his claim had been 
prejudged based on his initial notification. But I think its not unusual for insurers to take an 
initial stance on liability which may change over the course of its investigation. 
I can see that Admiral considered Mr Rs statement of events and the witness statements. It 
discounted the dashcam footage as that didnt show the actual collision but what had 
happened earlier. It later obtained and considered the police report. It also considered legal 
precedent, which I understand has been shared with Mr R. This was what a court had 
decided in similar collisions. Mr R wanted to see Admirals policy, but I wouldnt expect 
Admiral to share information that may be commercially sensitive. 
I can see from its file that Admiral considered the evidence available. It was concerned that 
Mr R had told it that he didnt see the motorcyclist until he was beside his car door. It thought 
this may lead to a split liability decision. It wanted further evidence from Mr R, so I think it 
reasonably instructed an independent investigator to interview him. 
Mr R thought Admiral hadnt given weight to the motorcyclists bad riding. But this is a 
criminal matter and Admiral is concerned with the civil dispute about liability. So I think it has 
reasonably considered the evidence available about what actually happened at the time of 
the collision.  
Admiral was concerned that there was a risk of litigation by the motorcyclist. It said it 
explained this to Mr R and told him it may need to make a cash offer to settle his claim. I 
think insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to 
contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
As far as I can see, the claim is still open, and Admiral is considering a split liability outcome. 
I think Admiral has investigated the claim reasonably and considered the evidence available 
in reaching this decision. 
Ive also seen from Admirals records that it responded to Mr Rs requests for information. I 
havent been provided with copies of their calls, so I cant comment on the customer service 
provided in them. But I havent seen anything untoward in Admirals claim notes. So I dont 
think its done anything wrong or needs to pay Mr R any compensation. 
Mr R was unhappy with what hed been told in the initial call with Admiral about how 
dashcam footage would be used and about the agents customer service. He was also 
unhappy that he was told he had to give up his courtesy car before he could get a mechanic 
to assess his car. 
Admiral has said that Mr R hasnt complained about these points. So I think its for Mr R to 
raise these concerns with Admiral first to give it an opportunity to consider them and 
respond. If he remains unhappy, he can bring his complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman