DRN-3079500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Phoenix Life Limited should pay them the proceeds of an 
endowment policy they took out in 1990.
What happened
In May 1990, Mr and Mrs A took out a low start, joint-life with-profits endowment policy with a 
predecessor business of Phoenix Life. The policy was assigned to their mortgage lender. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs A found the documentation relating to their policy, and asked Phoenix 
Life about it, as it had taken over the administration. But Phoenix Life said that, according to 
its records, the policy was no longer in force. 
Mr and Mrs A complained. They said they hadnt had any form of communication from 
Phoenix Life, and they hadnt been aware of any time limit they had to get their money back. 
Phoenix Life said that it was only obliged to retain full records for a period of six years, and 
that it held limited information about Mr and Mrs As policy. It said the information it had 
showed the policy was re-assigned back to them from their mortgage lender in 1996 and 
was then assigned to another mortgage lender, but it had no further records after that. It said 
that live policy records transferred to its systems in 2009, which indicated Mr and Mrs As 
policy wasnt in force at that time.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
spoke with Mr and Mrs A and they told her that the last time they recalled paying the policy 
premiums was around 2009/2010. The investigator said that premiums remained due on the 
policy until its maturity date in 2015, so she thought this indicated that the policy may have 
been cancelled. She said that the evidence indicated that the policy was no longer in force 
by 2009, and the information Mr and Mrs A had given about the premium payments stopping 
aligned with this date. 
The investigator clarified the details of the policy with Phoenix Life and it said that it wouldve 
built-up a surrender value after the premiums had been paid for two years and, if the 
premiums had been paid for the full term of 25 years, it wouldve matured in 2015 paying the 
basic sum assured plus any bonuses. But it said that there was no record of the policy still 
being live or having a surrender value available from 2009, when live policies were 
transferred onto its systems. 
Mr and Mrs A said that they hadnt cancelled the payments on the policy and believed the 
reason the payments had been stopped was so the policy value didnt have to be paid back 
to them. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs As strength of feeling about their complaint, particularly as 
they believe they should receive money back from their policy after paying the premiums 
due. Its unfortunate that there are no records which could show what happened to the 
policy. Phoenix Life holds limited information about it, partly because of the passing of time 
but also as the information it does have suggests that the policy ended some years ago and 
was no longer in force by 2009, when all live policies were transferred onto its systems.
I can see that our investigator has looked to clarify with Mr and Mrs A what their recollections 
are and the details of their mortgage, as the policy was taken out with the aim of building a 
lump sum that would repay the outstanding capital on their interest-only mortgage. There is 
evidence to show that the policy was assigned to two different mortgage lenders for Mr and 
Mrs A during the time it was in force, which indicates that they did intend for it to be used to 
repay their mortgage at that stage.
Mr and Mrs A have told us that they repaid their mortgage in around 2013/2014 but they 
dont recall which lender this was with. And they didnt realise that the premiums for their 
policy had stopped being paid from their bank account until they found the policy 
documentation in 2019. The policy term was 25 years from 1990 which means that, if the 
premium payments had continued for this full term, the policy will have matured in 2015. 
Although I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs A will want to know what happened to their policy, 
I think this is very difficult to say with any certainty. Because of the limited information still 
available, it isnt now possible to confirm whether Mr and Mrs A surrendered their policy; 
whether it remained assigned to their mortgage lender after 1996 or whether it was used in 
payment towards their mortgage.
Overall, I think the information that is available suggests that the policy ended some time 
before 2009. I say this because of Phoenix Lifes submission about the transfer of policy 
details onto its systems, and what Mr and Mrs A have told us about the premium payments 
stopping and their mortgage being repaid. 
Taking everything into account, and although I realise that it doesnt give Mr and Mrs A the 
answers they would like about their policy, I dont think that Phoenix Life has acted wrongly 
or unfairly when its records indicate that this policy hasnt been in force for some time.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman