DRN-2906188
The complaint
Mr F complains about problems with Pockit Limited after a payment wasnt credited to his 
account. 
  
What happened
At the end of December 2020 Mr Fs partner transferred him £4,999 but the funds couldnt 
be credited to his Pocket account because of its operating limits. As a result, Pockit 
transferred the money back to the sending bank. 
In January 2021 Mr F tried to contact Pockit to discuss the matter but input his PIN 
incorrectly then failed the security questions. Mr F was asked to provide identification to 
unlock his account. At the beginning of February 2021 Mr Fs partner attempted to make the 
payment again but Mr Fs account was locked. Mr F sent Pockit the required identification to 
Pockit in the middle of February 20201. The account was unlocked in the middle of March 
2021. 
Mr F used Pockits chat facility to try and locate the missing payment. At various points Mr F 
was told by Pockit it couldnt locate the missing funds. Mr F was asked to get information 
from his partners bank to try and help Pockit locate the missing funds. 
Pockit sent the payment back to the sending bank in the middle of April 2021. 
After Mr F complained Pockit offered him £100 to apologise for the service provided. An 
investigator at this service looked at Mr Fs complaint and upheld it. They said Pockits terms 
say it will contact the sending bank to try and trace missing funds. They also thought there 
were unreasonable delays and that Mr F had been treated unfairly. 
The investigator recommended Pockit pay Mr F £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Pockit asked to appeal, so Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the time line of events and agree with the investigator that this issue took a 
very long time to resolve. Given the amounts involved and fact Mr F contacted both our 
service and Pockit on numerous occasions, I dont doubt how stressful it was for him. Im 
very pleased the funds were ultimately found and returned to the sending bank in April 2021. 
Ive focused on how the issues raised impacted Mr F and how to fairly resolve this complaint. 
Reading Mr Fs chatlogs with Pockit I can see he input incorrect information which meant he 
needed to supply identification. But that was received and resolved in the middle of February 
2021. I also note the investigator highlighted that Pockits terms specifically say it will 
cooperate to help locate missing funds. Whilst I appreciate Mr F had input the wrong PIN, I 
think Pockit couldve done more to help him at an earlier stage. 
I agree with the investigators view that the £100 existing settlement isnt fair. Im going to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint and tell Pockit to pay him a total of £250 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised 
on Mr F. Our investigator also recommended Pockit pay 8% interest on the £4,999 payment 
between 12 March 2021 and 12 April 2021 to reflect the delay in this case. I agree thats a 
fair approach. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Pockit Limited to settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr F a total of £250 (less any compensation already paid)
- Pay 8% interest on £4,999 to cover the period 12 March 2021 to 12 April 2021   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman