DRN-3856841
The complaint
Mr I complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited wrongly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and didnt compensate him properly for its poor service. 
What happened
Mr I renewed his policy with Skyfire in May 2021. In April 2022 Skyfire asked him for a copy 
of his driving licence, as it thought it may have found evidence of identity theft. By the time 
Mr I called to discuss it, the policy had already been cancelled. He says he was without 
insurance for two days. Skyfire had refunded the premium for the year (£843.05) to Mr I on 
cancellation. Later on, when it agreed to reinstate the policy, it said Mr I would have to pay 
the premium back to it. It also said he now had three years no claims discount. Mr I didnt 
want to repay the premium, so he made a complaint to Skyfire. 
On 8 June 2022, in its response to Mr Is complaint, Skyfire accepted that some of its service 
had been poor, so  by way of compensation - it deducted £75 from the sum Mr I owed it for 
the reinstated policy. But Mr I didnt agree that he should pay back anything. And in addition 
to the three-year NCD, he wanted it to increase the compensation and remove all records of 
the cancellation, so it didnt have to be declared to other insurers. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Is complaint. When Skyfire sent us its business file, it 
said further errors had been made. It said the policy shouldnt have been reinstated. It also 
said Mr I should have been given more time to provide it with the evidence it had asked him 
for. Skyfire said all references to the cancellation of Mr Is policy had been removed and he 
no longer needed to repay the £724.60 owed for the policy following its reinstatement. 
Mr I didnt think that was a fair outcome. He repeated that he wanted compensation. And he 
said he hadnt received proof of three years NCD from Skyfire. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that Skyfire made a number of errors. It says it isnt sure why a query was raised 
about identity theft in the first place  and without that, Mr Is policy would have continued 
until it lapsed or was renewed in the usual way. So Mr I was inconvenienced unnecessarily 
in having to provide documents to Skyfire. And it accepts that he should have been given 
more time to do so. Had that been the case, the cancellation could have been avoided. In 
addition, Skyfire accepts it was poor service for Mr I to be told by an advisor in error on 22 
April 2022 that a new policy could be set up for him, when he was insured elsewhere.
Skyfire only returned the full policy premium to Mr I because it had cancelled the policy from 
its renewal date in May 2021. I think that was correct, because if Mr I had no cover from that 
date, he didnt owe the premium to Skyfire. Mr I was only asked to pay the premium back to 
Skyfire after being told on 25 April 2022 that the policy had been reinstated. 
 
Skyfire has since said that the policy shouldnt have been reinstated. It ensured that Mr I had 
three years NCD. But Mr I already had a new policy with another insurer. As the policy year 
with Skyfire wasnt due to end until May 2022, Mr I didnt have a full third year with it on 
which a discount could be based. I think its likely he would have had that discount but for 
Skyfires actions. It apologised for all the inconvenience faced by Mr I and said it hoped hed 
be happy with its decision to waive the sum owed on the policy after its reinstatement. 
I think the attempt made by Skyfire to resolve the complaint was reasonable. Mr I got poor 
service from it in terms of the cancellation from start to finish, so I can see why he feels 
compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience he faced. But I dont think Mr I has  
taken into account that the reinstatement means he got the benefit of cover from Skyfire for 
11 months of the policy year. In my opinion, its fair for him to have to pay for that cover. So 
I think that in waiving the sum owed to it by Mr I for cover, Skyfire has acted in a way thats 
equivalent to having paid him compensation. Mr I has money in his pocket that he wouldnt 
have had if Skyfire had insisted on payment for the premium thats due. 
Had Skyfire insisted that Mr I should pay the premium, Id have considered what amount of 
compensation it should pay him for distress and inconvenience. But that sum wouldnt have 
been as much as the sum it has waived. Skyfire has also deleted all references to the 
cancellation and Mr I wont have to report it to future insurers. It told us it had sent NCD 
proof to Mr I in June 2022. When the investigator asked Mr I about that in August 2022, he 
confirmed hed received it. Recently he said he didnt have it. The investigator will follow up 
on that, given the assurances weve been given about it by Skyfire and by Mr I previously.  
As I think Skyfire acted reasonably in trying to put matters right, I dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask it to do anything further. So I cant uphold Mr Is complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman