DRN-3590444
The complaint
Mr B complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted him a 
hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from SMFL. 
Mr B was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £244.02 followed by a final payment 
of £254.02. The total repayable under the agreement was £14,651.20. 
Mr B started to miss payments from December 2019. Default notices  were issued in 
January and February 2020. A payment arrangement was agreed in May 2021 but Mr B 
continued to experience difficulty with meeting his payments. 
Mr B says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included credit checks and reliance on information 
provided by Mr B at the time of application. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and said our adjudicator hadnt fully taken into account his regular 
expenditure. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
application.
The credit check SMFL completed showed details of Mr Bs existing borrowing, including 
one loan which appeared to be subject to a payment arrangement. I think this ought to have 
indicated that Mr B could be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for SMFL to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before lending.
Ive also seen that SMFL didnt verify Mr Bs income before approving the finance. Given the 
overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think 
it would have been proportionate for SMFL to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
SMFL says it calculated Mr Bs expenditure using statistical data which it says gives average 
household expenditure figures specific to Mr Bs location and household. The regulator has 
said firms can estimate expenditure unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an 
estimate is unlikely to be accurate. I think the credit check SMFL completed showed that 
Mr B may have had potential difficulty in meeting the monthly payments under the 
agreement. In those circumstances I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate 
to have understood Mr Bs specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an 
estimate.  
I cant be certain what Mr B would have told SMFL had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think SMFL needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Bs  
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed four months of bank statements prior to the application. These show Mr Bs 
committed monthly expenditure at the time as being around £1,700 per month. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included other borrowing he was already repaying, rent, utilities, food and 
other regular living expenses. At the time Mr Bs monthly income was around £2,275. Taking 
these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr B and that 
hed have a disposable income each month of around £500, which would be more than he 
needed to cover the monthly payments under the agreement of £244.02.
Mr B has disagreed with our adjudicators findings, providing us with details of additional 
monthly expenses relating to his children which he says our adjudicator failed to take into 
account and which he says would have made the agreement unaffordable. From the 
evidence Ive seen I cant see that this is likely to have had a significant impact on Mr Bs 
overall financial position. But even if I were to make allowance for there being some further 
expenditure each month, I still consider it likely he would have been left with enough 
disposable income for the agreement with SMFL to be affordable. 
For these reasons, I dont think SMFL acted unfairly when approving the finance application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman