DRN-2281587
The complaint
Miss M complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Using information from Lending Streams records, here is a brief Loan Table. Lending 
Stream has explained that only one loan is closed having been repaid very early, Loan 2 is 
still outstanding and Loans 3 and 4 were sold to a third party.
Loan Approved Amount Instalment 
repaymentRepaid
1 18 October 2018 £50 £16.67 26 October 2018
2 6 November 2018 £150 £47.19 o/s
3 22 November 2018 £70 £23.33 Third party 
owned
4 12 January 2019 £50 £16.67 Third party 
owned
Miss M complained to Lending Stream in January 2020. It replied with a final response letter 
in which it accepted that it ought to put things right for Loan 4. 
It said: Although loan 4 were [sic] affordable, we have thought about the number of loans 
and the time that passed between each loan being opened. We can see that it might not 
have been a good idea for us to make these loans. So, we are partially agreeing to your 
complaint. To put things right, we'd like to take the following steps
We'll refund the interest and fees you have paid us for loan 4
We'll pay an extra 8% simple interest on this amount
We'll withhold 20% of this additional 8% interest amount because Her Majesty's 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) tell us we must do this
We'll check this refund amount (after HMRC withholding) against any outstanding 
balances you have with us
We'll give you a certificate of the tax we have withheld for use in any discussions 
with HMRC if required
We'll remove any adverse marks we have left on your credit file at the CRA for 
loan 4
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint after Miss M referred it to this service, and 
he thought that Lending Streams final response offer was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. He said: Based on what I have seen, I would not be recommending that Lending 
Stream do any more than they have already offered to do.
Miss M said she did not think it was fair and has referred to entries on her credit file. She 
says she repaid the loans in April 2020 and that were defaults on her account for April, May 
and June 2020 and was concerned about them. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Looking at Miss Ms complaint and her lending relationship history with Lending Stream, 
I think that it carried out the checks I would have considered proportionate to the loan sums 
being applied for, and her declared information with each application. So, I do not uphold 
Miss Ms complaint about Loans 1 to 3.  
Lending Stream has offered to put things right in relation to the last loan , Loan 4, and 
I endorse that offer as a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Miss M also expresses concern in relation to defaults on her credit file. Miss M has not sent 
to us any evidence of what her credit file says, but shes told us that there are defaults 
registered and is unhappy about them. 
From the information Lending Stream has sent to me, I can see that Miss M received a 
combination of arrears notices, default sum notices and final demands for Loans 2 and 3 
from January 2019 to April 2019. And in relation to Loan 4 Miss M received a combination of 
arrears notices, default fee notices and final demands from June to August 2019. 
The statements of account for each of those loans show me that around January and 
February 2019 Miss M ceased paying for Loans 2 and 3. And for Loan 4, Miss M seems to 
have been repaying the principal but not repaying the interest. So, from what information 
I have it does appear that Miss M owes the outstanding sums. 
We asked Lending Stream about the situation relating to Miss Ms credit file records. 
Lending Stream says that the credit file entries are accurate. In September 2020 it explained 
to our adjudicator as follows: 
We would like to inform you that [Miss M] has 4 loans with Lending Stream however 
only one loan is closed wherein loan 2 is still outstanding with us and loans 3 & 4 are 
sold to a third party. Due to non-payment towards the loan account, default has been 
marked in [Miss M's] credit file.
This was explained to Miss M by our adjudicator and then she was informed that the case 
was being passed to me for a decision. Miss M has not come back to us with anything 
further in relation to this default point. 
I have received the explanation from Lending Stream about this. And so, it seems that 
Miss Ms non-payment of the loan Lending Stream still owns (the others having been sold to 
a third party debt collector) had resulted in a default. I dont think it likely that an error was made, and I dont think it is unreasonable defaults were reported to the credit reference 
agencies about these loans. So, I do not uphold this part of Miss Ms complaint. 
   
Putting things right
Lending Stream should do as it has offered to do which is to:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result of loan 4; and
add interest at 8% per year simple interest* on the above refunded sums from the 
date they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss Ms credit file as a result 
of the interest and charges on these loans;
I set out here our usual approach in relation to a situation where a consumer still owes 
money. Lending Stream is entitled to set off any monies arising from the redress against any 
monies Miss M may owe it, but to be clear this should only be in respect of the principal sum 
borrowed. Any unpaid charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to either loan treated as if Miss M had paid down the principal.
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined above, Lending 
Stream will need to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off 
and the full amount due will be repayable to Miss M directly. And in those circumstances the 
third party will need to be directed by Lending Stream to correct any adverse entries on 
Miss M s credit file, so far as it is able to do so. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
If Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it 
must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLCs offer to resolve Miss Ms complaint is fair and 
reasonable and it should do as it has offered to do and as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman