DRN-2955358
The complaint
Mr C complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Fiscale 
Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm J). 
He believes that the advice provided was flawed which has resulted in him suffering a 
significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Fiscale 
by a colleague. Mr C spoke with Fiscale in December 2016 but it referred him to Firm J, as 
Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions to advise him on the transfer of defined-
benefit pension schemes.
Firm J ultimately advised Mr C to transfer out of the BSPS in January 2017. Mr C was 
referred back to Fiscale in May 2017 following the completion of the transfer to a personal 
pension. Fiscale then advised Mr C to invest his funds in line with his cautious attitude to 
risk.
In January 2020 Mr C complained about the advice to Fiscale and Firm J. However, Firm J 
went into liquidation and so Mr Cs complaint about this business was referred to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Fiscale told Mr C it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it had 
simply provided advice as to how his funds should be invested once the transfer had 
completed. Fiscale said Mr C was aware that it could not provide him with any pension 
transfer advice, which is why he was referred to Firm J.
Mr Cs representative referred his complaint to our service, saying Fiscale should be held 
liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between the two businesses. The 
representative said Mr C had been verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale and that the 
transfer of his preserved benefits could not have taken place without Fiscale introducing 
Mr C to Firm J.
Our investigator didnt agree. She didnt think Fiscales actions had gone beyond that of 
introducing Mr C to Firm J, and she wasnt persuaded that Fiscale had given Mr C any 
advice to transfer or that Mr C had relied on such advice.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. I dont intend to repeat everything she said here but wish to make the 
following points.
The testimonies provided by Mr C and Fiscale are quite different. Mr Cs position is that 
Fiscale played a key role in the pension transfer process because it verbally told him to 
transfer before introducing him to Firm J. But Fiscale disputes this and says that it didnt 
advise Mr C about the merits or otherwise of transferring because it didnt have the 
necessary regulatory permissions to do so  which is why it introduced him to Firm J. It says 
its role in the transaction was merely as an introducer to Firm J and that it only gave him 
advice on where to invest his funds after the transfer had been completed.
 
Wheres theres conflicting testimonies like this, I think its appropriate to place more weight 
on the contemporaneous documentary evidence in reaching my decision.
In this case, the documentary evidence shows that Fiscale met with Mr C on one occasion 
on 1 December 2016. The adviser sent Mr C an email on 2 December 2016 to confirm what 
had been discussed. The email said that, as explained in the meeting, Fiscale didnt have 
the necessary permissions to advise on pension transfers. It said that Fiscale could refer 
Mr C to a firm that did have the required permissions, and if that firm determined that a 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests, they would refer Mr C back to Fiscale to provide 
ongoing servicing and advice. The email reiterated that Fiscale would not be providing 
advice on the pension transfer and that it would only take regulatory responsibility for Mr Cs 
pension for ongoing advice. The email asked Mr C to respond to confirm his understanding 
of this and to confirm he was happy to be referred to another firm for pension transfer 
advice. Mr C responded by email on 5 December 2016 saying he understood and was 
happy to go on to the next step to see what could be done with his pension.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Fiscale did anything that could be considered as 
amounting to advice before Mr C transferred his pension. Fiscale met with Mr C once and 
following this meeting the email it sent to Mr C set out clearly what it could and couldnt do. 
There was no reference to any discussion about the viability of a transfer, based on Mr Cs 
circumstances or objectives. And the email did not presume that a transfer would go ahead  
it simply referred to the possibility of this, but only if it was in Mr Cs best interest.
If the information in the email didnt accurately reflect the conversation Mr C had had with the 
adviser, I think he wouldve said so at the time. But Mr C confirmed his understanding that 
Fiscale couldnt and wouldnt be advising him on the pension transfer. Fiscales next contact 
with Mr C was in May 2017, after the transfer had completed. So, on balance, I dont think 
Fiscale gave Mr C any advice to transfer his pension  instead, I think this advice was given 
by Firm J. The evidence Ive seen shows Firm J carried out a fact-find, risk assessment and 
ultimately produced a recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS.
Overall, I dont think the arrangement between Fiscale and Firm J can be considered as a 
joint venture. I dont think Fiscale did anything that went beyond the role of introducer 
before Mr Cs pension was transferred to a personal pension. So, Im not holding Fiscale 
liable for the advice to transfer. Based on what Ive seen, this advice was given by Firm J 
and I think Firm J remains solely responsible for the suitability of the pension transfer advice 
and any financial loss flowing from it.Mr Cs representative says that, but for the introduction to Firm J, Mr C wouldnt have 
transferred his pension. But providing an introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in 
the regulators Dispute Resolution rules. And ultimately Mr C transferred his pension benefits 
because Firm J advised him to do so. I dont think Fiscale gave Mr C any information or 
advice that wouldve led to him transferring his pension away from the BSPS if Firm J had 
advised him against doing so.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that Fiscale advised Mr C to transfer the value of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a personal pension or that it made an error or treated 
him unfairly. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Fiscale to pay compensation to Mr C or to take any further 
action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman