DRN-1708902
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc are holding him liable for transactions on his credit 
card that he says happened in the UK when he had the card with him whilst abroad. He says 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise the transactions.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So I wont repeat it 
again here, instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator for effectively the same 
reasons. These reasons include:
Santanders technical evidence shows that the transactions Mr P disputes were all 
authenticated by Chip and PIN. But Mr P says the card was with him at all times  in 
a different country. Im more persuaded by the technical evidence supplied by 
Santander that the cards unique chip was read by the terminal/machine for each of 
the transactions. Its widely accepted that it isnt possible to clone a cards unique 
chip.
Mr P says he never wrote down or shared his PIN with anyone. Santander have said 
that the PIN was entered correctly (first time) for each of the transactions. Its hard to 
understand how this would be possible if Mr P hadnt authorised someone else to 
make the transactions. 
Mr P read the full 16 digit card number to Santander during a phone call when 
disputing the transactions from overseas  he says this evidences the card was with 
him. Ive thought about this and Ive listened to that call. But I remain more 
persuaded by the technical evidence from Santander. I dont accept that reading the 
number in full proves the card was in his possession at that time. 
There was a six day period with no activity on Mr Ps card between some of the 
disputed transactions. If an unauthorised third party were responsible, I think its 
likely they would have tried to have achieved the maximum benefit as quickly as 
possible. Particularly as the card could have been blocked at any time. Its not 
common for there to be a gap like this. 
 
Overall, Im satisfied the transactions were correctly authenticated by Santander. And I think 
it is more likely than not that Mr P consented to them by authorising another to use his card. 
It follows that I think it is fair for Santander to hold him liable for these transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman