DRN-3813789
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Michael James trading as West Country Financial is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MJWCF.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
MJWCF which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 49 years old and married to Mrs T who was 45. They had grown up 
children all in their 20s. 
Mr T had previously suffered from a potentially life-threatening disease although hed 
been given the all clear around 4 years prior to the advice. Mrs T was said to need 
some surgery on a back issue but was working full-time. Mr T had an income of 
around £37,000 per year and Mrs Ts income was £21,000. They had a meaningful 
disposable income left available each month after essentials were paid.
Mr and Mrs T lived in a home valued at around £160,000 with a 15-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £93,000. They owned some shares (c£8,000) and had around 
£10,500 in a deposit savings account. The had further cash savings in ISAs of 
£9,000 in total. The adviser recorded that they each anticipated inheriting properties 
from elderly relatives at some stage. But Ive made the assumption that these were 
not certain as it could depend on long-term care requirements or other unforeseen 
factors.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts BSPS was approximately 
£426,190 as he had over 29 years service. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 
65. However, I can see Mr T expressed an interest in retiring early, at around the age 
of 60.
Mr T had recently joined the TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to ongoing contributions. Mrs T had a number of 
small DB and DC pensions of her own, built up through different employers over the 
years.
MJWCF set out its advice in a suitability report on 15 November 2017. In this it advised Mr T 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. MJWCF 
said this would allow Mr T to achieve his objectives. Mr T accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2021 Mr T complained to MJWCF about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. In response, MJWCF said it hadnt 
done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr T had at the time.
Mr T then referred his complaint to our Service, the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint and initially said in early 2022 that it shouldnt be 
upheld. As Ill explain a little more about later, the investigator thought Mr Ts previous illness 
meant that transferring to a personal pension arrangement was suitable for him.
However, after receiving further submissions from Mr T, the investigator issued another 
view, in October 2022. This time the investigator recommended that, having reconsidered all 
the available evidence, we ought to uphold his complaint. MJWCF hasnt agreed to uphold it 
and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MJWCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MJWCF should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ts best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from MJWCF. Ive carefully considered too, all the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators views.
Having considered everything we have with great care, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Financial viability 
MJWCF referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
In this case, MJWCF used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield comparisons, 
rather than the new BSPS2. However, we know that by the time of the advice, Mr Ts 
options didnt include staying in the BSPS. MJWCF has since said that getting information 
from the trustees was difficult due to the numbers of requests to transfer. 
However, this issue doesnt have any meaningful effect on the outcome though. Thats 
because we know the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 would have been somewhere close 
to those of the old BSPS. And, as I show below, looked at through the prism of 2017 it was 
unlikely that Mr T would be able to achieve even close to the critical yield if transferring to a 
personal pension plan.
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr T was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
MJWCF said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the 
BSPS, was 7.36% if Mr T took a full pension at the NRA (65). MJWCF also calculated the 
critical yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because Mr T had 
apparently expressed a desire to retire early. However, as Ill explain more about later, at the 
age of 49, retirement was still a long way off for Mr T and so I very much doubt whether 
retiring at 60 was fixed. For the age of 60, the critical yield came out at 8.94%. 
But I dont think there was credible evidence at the time that achieving enough growth 
outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was ever going to be 
attainable. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.3% per year for 15 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the relevant 
critical yield figure Ive referred to above. For retiring at 60, the discount rate was only 3.8%. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%.
At the time, MJWCF assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) as adventurous or 8/10. I think 
this categorisation was too high and appears based only on answers on a pre-formatted 
questionnaire about general risks Mr T was asked to complete. The evidence is strongly 
suggestive of his answers being based mainly on Mr Ts previous life-threatening illness 
experience where Mr T appeared to have adopted a life is for living attitude. But Ive seen 
no evidence Mr T had the investment experience needed to be classified as an adventurous 
investor as I can see nothing showing he had relevant experiences to draw upon. 
I therefore think any portrayal of Mr Ts as being knowledgeable and / or experienced about 
investing in areas like this was overblown. Ive listened to recorded telephone calls weve 
had with him over the last few months and whilst he is clearly an intelligent and inquisitive 
person, theres simply no evidence he had a detailed knowledge of investing on this scale. 
Ive noted too, that even the adviser themselves reduced his ATR to 6/10 when thinking 
about the funds Mr T ought to be invested in after the transfer. The funds Mr T was shown 
assumed mid-rate and high growth rates of around 2.2% to 5.1% respectively and of 
course, we know 2017 was a period of sustained low interest rates and bond yields.
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators projections and also to the discount rate were most 
relevant here in my view. And even the funds own mid-rate and high projections were 
relatively modest. So, I think growth assumptions of around 4 -to-5% were much more 
realistic if thinking about Mr Ts NRA of 65. If considering a much earlier retirement, at the 
age of 60, I think the assumed growth should have been slightly lower. So, these realistic 
growth rates were substantially below the critical yield figures for the BSPS which were 
7.36% (aged 65) and 8.94% (aged 60). Achieving these year-on-year, upon transferring out, 
was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, MJWCFs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits in the 
existing scheme, the estimated fund required at 65 was £1,046,817. For the age of 60 the 
amount required was £923,623.
To reiterate, these figures are found in MJWCFs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Ts 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr T could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, MJWCF also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. MJWCF said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and MJWCF itself says Mr T wouldnt have wanted 
to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr T, 
would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, MJWCFs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr T would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, MJWCF 
should have recalculated the comparisons for Mr T when the situation with BSPS2 became 
clear  we know this was available at the time. 
Ive also considered some projections MJWCF used to help show that if he transferred out to 
a personal plan, the funds could last Mr T well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to 
say these were not comparing like-with-like. What MJWCF was showing Mr T were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to MJWCF, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, MJWCF said Mr T also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer away
MJWCF recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr 
Ts wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to 
summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away.
As Ive mentioned above, our investigator was initially persuaded that Mr Ts previous illness 
might well have caused him to adopt an attitude whereby he just wanted access to his 
pension in case something bad happened to him again and Mrs T was left to cope alone. He 
also expressed a fear that if he died, his adult children wouldnt get anything from his DB 
scheme. Ive also noted some reference in the documents that Mr and Mrs T were 
considering buying a property abroad. 
However, I think these things were overstated. I certainly wouldnt want to imply Mr Ts 
previous health scare wasnt a very significant shock, or that it had caused him to view life a 
little differently. But we know, thankfully, that Mr T had recovered from this and had been 
given the all clear four years before the advice. Theres also no hard and fast evidence the 
home purchase abroad was anything other than a possible option. Indeed, the fact-find 
from the time said they had no plans for major capital spending anytime soon and Mr T only 
said they had thought about a home overseas.
These things, in my view, show how important it was for the adviser to look at Mr Ts 
situation objectively when advising him. I accept Mr T probably went to the advice session 
with an outline view of what he wanted. However, the adviser was being paid for their advice 
and they were the regulated party here. And their job wasnt to just transact what Mr T  an 
amateur in this field  thought was a good idea. The job of the adviser was to use their skill, 
experience and training to recommend what was in Mr Ts best interests. I dont think this 
happened.
The following were listed by the adviser as Mr Ts objectives:take your retirement from age 60 without incurring a penalty
you prefer to have control of the investment strategy and to have greater flexibility 
with the timing and levels of lump sum withdrawals and income rather than the 
regular income option available via the final salary scheme.
ensure that the full value of your pension is available for your spouse and children in 
the event of your death as you feel [your wife] would not be comfortably provided for 
with a 50% spouse pension.
you wish to access some of the tax-free cash to buy a holiday home abroad an repay 
any outstanding mortgage at retirement, though you are overpaying to try to clear it 
prior to retirement.
concern regarding the financial security of the pension.
I have considered all these issues.
Retiring early and accessing the funds early
Mr T was still only 49 years old and had thankfully recovered his health. So, I think its 
important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ts comparatively young age by pension 
standards. 
The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr T  understandably - had no concrete plans yet for 
his retirement and didnt really have any mature plans for the money. As Ive said, I think the 
home abroad was only a thought. In reality, there was no property yet identified and no plan 
as to how it was going to be funded. So citing this as a potential reason to transfer his 
pension and access cash early was wrong, in my view.
Ive noted that another advantage cited of the transfer to a personal pension plan was that of 
retiring early and accessing a large tax-free lump sum to pay off Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage. 
Of course, its rarely a bad idea to think about paying down debt. But there was no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs T were not duly paying down the mortgage in accordance with the rules and 
payment plan. I also think its important to point out they had 15 years left on their mortgage. 
This means that by the time an early retirement at 60 came about for Mr T, there might only 
be four years or so left on the mortgage. And as a consequence of this, the remaining 
balance would be low and easily met from the savings Mr and Mrs T had - there was no 
need to use Mr Ts pension for this purpose. Even without using the savings they already 
had, there was also a possibility of the mortgage being paid completely anyway before Mr T 
retired. This is because Mr and Mrs T had said that when their youngest child left university 
they might use their disposable income to pay extra each month to reduce their mortgage 
debt. So, there was every chance that the term would be reduced to before Mr T even 
reached early retirement.
I also think that as Mr and Mrs T were only still in their late 40s, its important to bear in mind 
that life would probably still have some challenges to throw at them, meaning a retirement 
couldnt be easily planned just yet when it was still over a decade away. I think theres 
evidence that issues such as their youngest child still being at university, and some health 
issues being endured by Mrs T, were considered as priorities they wanted to sort out. These 
types of issue clearly had the capacity to change their outlook and financial profile 
considerably.
So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts relatively young ages and their overall circumstances 
when thinking about whether now was the right time to advise Mr T to irreversibly transfer away from a DB scheme. Hed been through a very hard time with his health and whilst Im 
sure, like many people, Mr T probably wanted to stop working as early as possible, I think he 
also had several more pressing priorities in the years ahead which could change what he 
was able to achieve in terms of retiring. What he and the adviser discussed about retirement, 
in 2017 therefore, could only ever have been general aspirations about Mr T eventually 
giving up work. But in reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply too early to 
speculate about this and give up the benefits and guarantees the BSPS2 contained.
I think its also likely MJWCF also promoted to Mr T that he could access more tax-free cash 
if he transferred to a personal pension plan. It implied hed be able to access 25% of his 
pension as a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case 
that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a 
DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But MJWCF should have been telling Mr T at the time that extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his late 50s in his case, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
In my view, the adviser also portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr T had with the 
proposed BSPS2 in a somewhat negative dimension. The implication was that transferring to 
the BSPS2 was somehow too restrictive for Mr T and unsuitable for him. For example, 
retiring early from a DB scheme was referred to as a penalty. But retiring early from that DB 
scheme (the BSPS2) would simply have meant Mr Ts pension benefits would have been 
somewhat different, due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. So, in my view, 
referring to this as a penalty was inaccurate and needed a very careful explanation. Overall 
I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring away, rather than starting by assessing 
whether BSPS2 could meet Mr Ts early retirement objectives. I think the adviser just 
promoted the more flexible arrangements which Mr T would find with a personal pension 
plan. 
In this context, with over 15 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring if 
using his NRA, there was simply no meaningful rationale brought forward as to why Mr T 
should have been deciding to transfer way. And doing so involved an investment risk which 
Ive showed above would probably mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
Flexibility and control
I also cant see that Mr T required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by MJWCF. And so, Ive seen nothing that showed 
Mr T required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. Even if I were to 
assume the retirement plans were more fixed than the distant thoughts about something that 
was still over a decade away, I still dont think there was any case for Mr T transferring away 
from a DB scheme at that point. This is because MJWCF itself set out the estimated pension 
hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this showed a reasonable income when assessed 
against what Mr T had speculated that he might need in retirement. 
Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in 
advance. However, Mr T speculated that they might have needed around £20,000 per year if 
they made progress on paying their mortgage.
MJWCFs analysis said that if retiring at 60, Mr T could expect an annual pension of around 
£17,912. But we know Mrs T was still a few years younger and so she would only be 56. She 
would therefore have still had a salary herself  her current salary was £21,000 per year - or 
even if she did retire very early, she would have a modest retirement income which 
comprised of both DB and DC pension schemes in her own name. I dont think the adviser comprehensively calculated all these scenarios up. In my view these calculations would 
have helped to demonstrate that Mr T could probably still retire early, but as a member of 
BSPS2, rather than having to transfer. The above were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really 
matter because current members were being given similar estimates about the new scheme 
(BSPS2) at around the very time this advice was being sought. I dont think MJWCF 
adequately explained these things to Mr T and that his hoped-for income could still be met 
without leaving the DB scheme. I think the advice simply discounted him transferring to the 
new scheme to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
Mr T also already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a 
consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. I dont think the 
adviser took enough notice of this. Whilst it may have contained only a small sum in 2017, 
this DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr T and his employer - 
6% and 10% respectively and still had over 15 years left to run (10 years if he did eventually 
retire very early). As of 2017, Mr T easily appeared to have enough financial capacity to 
raise his contributions to this DC scheme. So I think that by retirement it isnt unreasonable 
to say hed have accrued a substantial sum within this. I think this secondary pension would 
have afforded Mr T any flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr T wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr T could have been in an agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees 
also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other 
hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  10 to 15 
years. So, if Mr T ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the 
latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no persuasive evidence that Mr T had either the capacity or desire to exercise 
control over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr T was being offered the opportunity to 
transfer to the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when 
compared to the original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for 
him by trustees. Theres no real evidence that Mr T was an experienced investor. He and 
Mrs T had savings, but the vast majority of this was in cash deposit type accounts. Mrs T 
had some shares, but in my view this was probably connected with a past employment.  I 
also accept Mr T had joined the new TATA DC scheme which involved investing, but again 
Ive seen nothing showing this was conducted under anything other than an off the shelf 
investment strategy which required no direct investment decisions from Mr T himself. In any 
event, hed only just joined this a few months before.
Mr T appeared to therefore have no direct experience of these types of money market 
investments and I think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of 
managing over £426,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive 
seen tends to show Mr T would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of 
which would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
I therefore think Mr Ts circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have 
been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also 
had a smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits Death benefits are an emotive subject and when asked, most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. I think these issues were particularly emotive given 
the health issues Mr T had endured.
The adviser told Mr T that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were probably made to look like attractive features to Mr T. 
Given what Mr and Mrs T had been through I can understand why.
Ill deal with Mr Ts three adult children first. He clearly liked the idea that they might be able 
to inherit part of his pension fund if he died. This wasnt a feature of the BSPS2. But we 
know that when he did transfer, he apportioned 97% of the personal pensions benefits to his 
wife. Only 1% each was awarded to the three children. Not unsurprisingly therefore, Mr Ts 
overwhelming priorities were to see to the financial wellbeing of his spouse. So I dont think 
using his adult children  and their chance of inheriting his pension if he died  was the 
relevant factor here.
On the other hand, the BSPS2 contained certain benefits payable to a spouse if Mr T died. 
These benefits existed both pre and post retirement. I therefore think the value of these 
benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been extremely useful to Mrs T if Mr T predeceased her. The evidence is that 
she had her own pension(s) but overall, I think these were moderate sums. I dont think 
MJWCF made the value of this death benefit in BSPS2 clear enough. This was guaranteed 
for life and it escalated  and in my view it would have been a source of financial 
reassurance to Mrs T if Mr T did pass away before her. This spouses pension was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. Mr T had 
come through a difficult time with his health and hed been given the all clear several years 
ago. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think 
MJWCF explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a different retirement income 
in exchange for different death benefits.
Mr T was only 49 and now in much better health. An obvious drawback with a personal 
plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially 
reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr T 
had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Given his medical history, I acknowledge that life insurance probably wasnt a realistic option 
for Mr T. However, it doesnt appear that MJWCF really took into account the fact that Mr T 
could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. 
As Ive said, he could have potentially built up a meaningful sum in this. So, to this end, Mr T 
already had some other options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him. Mr T 
also had a death-in-service benefit with his new scheme which I think would have 
represented a substantial lump-sum payment to Mrs T if he died in the next 10-15 years.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I think this 
objective was no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Ts situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
MJWCF said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
MJWCF said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MJWCFs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that MJWCF 
should have reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr T through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his true ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to MJWCFs recommendation to Mr T to transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
MJWCF recommended that Mr T invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T 
and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. 
I accept hed had some worrying health issues, but these appeared to be behind him as of 
late 2017. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr T was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. 
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. Ive explained that the apparent rationale for transferring, to access the 
pension early and get a lump-sum, was flawed.
I therefore dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I think it was clear 
to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. 
Mr T still had many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would 
have been in his interests to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think MJWCF should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr T would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that MJWCF disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr T to transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.
In light of the above, I think MJWCF should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MJWCFs unsuitable advice. 
I consider Mr T would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the 
personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on 
his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
MJWCF should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
MJWCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MJWCF should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what MJWCF based the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MJWCF should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr T accepts MJWCFs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MJWCF may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that MJWCF should pay Mr T for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr T in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr T. So I agree the recommended payment of £250 for distress 
and inconvenience. MJWCF should pay Mr T this amount in addition to the redress Ive set 
out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Michael 
James trading as West Country Financial to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Michael James trading as West Country Financial pays Mr T the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Michael James 
trading as West Country Financial.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman