DRN-3710085
The complaint
Mrs P complains she was unable to open a bank account for her son with Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax. 
What happened
Mrs P says from August 2021 she had been trying to open an account for her son in 
advance of him turning 11 years old in early September. 
The account could only be opened online and was unavailable in branch. Mrs P says she 
was told to wait until her sons birthday as she would be unable to open the account until he 
was 11. 
Mrs P says Halifax then told her she needed to upgrade her account to a Reward Current 
one in order to qualify for the account for her son. And so she did this but the terms of it 
meant she needed to keep a certain balance in there at all times and pay in a specific 
amount each month.  
Mrs P applied for the account for her son online but kept getting an error message saying 
there was a technical issue and so the account couldnt be opened. Mrs P says she spent a 
lot of time on the phone and online with Halifax trying to resolve the issue without success. 
Mrs P wants Halifax to open the account for her son before he becomes too old to qualify, 
and to compensate her and her son for the distress and disappointment the matter has 
caused them. 
Halifax upheld Mrs Ps complaint. And so it offered to pay her £63 to cover the cost of the 
telephone calls she had to make. Halifax also paid Mrs P £300 for the distress of not being 
able to open the account for her son since August 2021 and the inconvenience of trying to 
sort it out. 
Halifax also said it was trying to work on a workaround for Mrs P in order for her to open the 
account for her son. It also provided feedback to its change team to suggest alternative 
methods of opening accounts based on the details of Mrs Ps complaint. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with Halifaxs response to her complaint and so she referred it to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. He said he thought Halifax had taken 
steps to try and resolve possible causes for the technical issues in opening the account. The 
investigator said Halifax kept in contact with Mrs P throughout and offered reasonable 
compensation to cover her telephone expenses and any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators outcome. She said she felt Halifax were advertising 
an account for her son which isnt attainable and amounts to mis-selling a service. Mrs P 
also said her son had been waiting over a year to open his account and Halifax still havent 
resolved the issue or kept her up to date. And so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Halifax has acknowledged the technical issues some customers are facing when opening a 
particular type of account. So Ive needed to think about whether the £300 it paid to Mrs P is 
enough to put things right. 
Applying for the account 
Mrs P tried to open an account for her son. But due to technical issues was unable to. When 
she tried to resolve the matter with Halifax it took her a number of hours. 
Halifax has explained it has been having problems with some customers trying to apply for 
some accounts. I have seen evidence of the matter being reported to the relevant team 
within Halifax and evidence that the issue has been followed up regularly. Unfortunately the 
fix is taking some time but I think Halifax has done what it can to try and resolve it. 
Upgrading to Reward account
According to the terms and conditions the criteria for opening the account Mrs P wanted for 
her son is as follows;
Be 18 or over and the child be between 11 and 15 years old 
Have an existing Ultimate Reward Current Account or Reward Current Account
Have an existing Kids Saver or Kids Monthly Saver for the child or their proof of identity 
Be registered for online banking
Both be living at the same UK address 
So Mrs P upgraded her account to a Reward one in order to open the relevant account for 
her son. I know Mrs P has said she needs to maintain a certain balance in the account, and 
for a certain amount to be paid in each month. And whilst this may not have been convenient 
for Mrs P she would have had to do this in any event for her son to qualify for the account. I 
cant see that Mrs P has lost out financially by upgrading to a Reward account. And Halifax 
have confirmed she can downgrade at any time. 
Mrs P says she felt pressured into opening the Reward account. But given the above I am 
not upholding this part of Mrs Ps complaint. 
I am sorry to hear Mrs P has been unable to open the account for her son and that shopping 
around for a different account is inconvenient and means she wont have the accounts with 
the same bank. But I think the compensation paid fairly reflects this and is in line with any 
award we would make. 
Its not in dispute that Halifax experienced system issues that prevent Mrs P from opening 
the account when she tried to. However it has apologised for this and paid reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience, and to cover the cost of the telephone 
calls. I cant see Mrs P has suffered financial loss as a result. However I dont doubt the 
matter caused Mrs P avoidable stress and inconvenience. But in the circumstances of this 
case I find Halifax apology and level of compensation to be the appropriate response. I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached. But based on 
everything Ive seen I think Halifax have done enough to rectify the issue.  
My final decision
Royal Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already paid Mrs P £363. I dont require it 
to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman