DRN-1545605
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policies since 1994.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
In bringing this complaint Mr M has been helped by his son who has made submissions on 
his behalf. My reference to Mr M includes comments made and actions taken on his behalf 
by his son.
What happened
Mr M first took out car insurance with UKI in 1994. His annual premiums have increased 
over the years. His first premium in 1994 cost £197. His premium in 2018 cost just over 
£800. His policies renewed automatically. Mr Ms 2018 policy came to an end in 2019 and he 
didnt renew with UKI.
Mr M said in 2019 he found a policy with another insurer for under £300. He also found a 
policy with UKI online which was for £490. When he called UKI they reduced the premium 
down to £464.80. Mr M said that demonstrates the unfair treatment he received from UKI 
given their renewal premium offer was over £900 whereas the policy online cost almost half 
that.
Mr M said he has been exploited over the years by UKI who have taken advantage of his 
loyalty and his age by increasing his premiums every year without justification.
Mr M complained. UKI looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it saying they didnt do 
anything wrong. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He felt that UKI had treated Mr M fairly. As Mr M didn't agree with our investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. I know my decision will disappoint 
Mr M.
In his complaint, Mr M has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. 
Mr M believes the increases to his premiums since 1994 were excessive and unfair. It might 
help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an 
insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally takes the view 
that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Mr Ms premiums did go up significantly between 1994 and 2019. So, I can understand why 
he was concerned. But just because Mr Ms premiums increased, I don't think that means 
that UKI treated him unfairly. UKI provided me with information to show how Mr Ms 
premiums increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr M. 
But having looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that UKI treated Mr M in the same way as it 
would other policyholders in similar circumstances. So, I think they calculated his premiums 
reasonably.
When setting premiums insurers will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those. In other words, they assess 
the level of risk each policyholder poses. And its not down to me to tell insurers what factors 
they should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. 
Insurers take into consideration a very large number of risk factors. It might help if I give just 
a few examples of the hundreds of factors insurers consider: the type of car insured; where 
the car is kept; the policyholders occupation; the policyholders age; the type of licence the 
policyholder has; the length of time the car has been owned; the number of years the 
policyholder has been driving; and past driving incidents the policyholder has been involved 
in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. 
And thats one of the reasons why different insurers charge different prices for their 
premiums. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement, balancing risk against the 
need to compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think its 
fair to interfere with. And each insurer will have their own methods of calculating risk.
In Mr Ms case, there are a number of factors that have had an effect on his premiums over 
the years. I think its fair to say that, like most things, inflationary factors have had an impact 
over the years since 1994. Like the price of most goods and services the cost of insurance 
has also gone up. Theres also insurance premium tax (IPT) which is a government-imposed 
tax over which UKI have no control. When IPT was introduced in 1994 it was 2.5%. It 
increased to 4% in 1997; 5% in 1999; 6% in 2011; 9.5% in 2015; 10% in 2016; and 12% in 
2017.
Ive seen that the increases between 1994 and 2005 were small ranging between £1 and 
£15 a year. Between 2006 and 2011 the increases were approximately £20 a year. There 
was a significant increase in 2012 of around £140 when Mr M received a speeding 
conviction that year. His premium in 2013 went down by almost £60 compared to 2012. And 
in 2013 Mr M had a fault claim which had an impact on his subsequent premiums. In 2014 
his premium increased by just under £50 compared to the previous year and in 2015 it went 
up by just over £60 compared to 2014. The 2016 premium increased by around £17. Mr M 
turned 80 years old in 2017 which had an impact on his premium that year as it increased by 
almost £150. His final policy in 2018 went up by around £38. The significant increases 
happened after the speeding conviction, fault claim and when Mr M turned 80. In my 
experience most insurers consider those factors increase risk and, as a result, cause 
premiums to rise.
UKI have also pointed out that since 1994 Mr M had an any driver policy which meant 
anyone over the age of 25 could drive his car. That policy had a higher risk rating and, as a 
result, cost more than a standard policy. UKI said they were able to dramatically reduce the 
2019 renewal premium from over £900 to £464.80 because the policy was changed from any driver to insured only. UKI also applied a loyalty discount. Mr M didnt take up UKIs 
offer and took out a policy with another insurer.
I should also say that each year the policy renewed, UKI sent Mr M a renewal notice with the 
price of the renewal premium. If Mr M wasnt happy with the price, he didnt have to renew 
with UKI. Im told that Mr M isnt computer literate and hes not good on the phone. While I 
have sympathy for Mr M, I dont think thats UKIs fault or that UKI could have known that. 
But as UKI said, they would have been happy to speak with a relative had Mr M asked a 
family member for assistance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman