DRN-3437807
The complaint
Mr Z complains that when he asked Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) to accept lower 
payments on his loan, it wrongly recorded missed payment markers on his credit file. Mr Z 
said this damaged his business.
What happened
Mr Z said that BoI wrongly added late payment notifications to his credit file. He said these 
markers meant he was declined for lending that he needed to support his business, and led 
to a loss of a very large amount of money.
BoI said that Mr Z missed his loan payment in January 2020, and his loan fell into arrears. 
He then missed another payment in April, and rang later that month to ask for a payment 
deferral under coronavirus pandemic guidance. But BoI said it wasnt able to offer this, as Mr 
Z was already in arrears. Instead it offered him a payment plan, for £1 per month, which 
would be noted on his credit file. 
Mr Z paid this reduced amount in May and June, but then later in June he cleared the 
arrears on his account, which meant BoI was then able to offer him a payment deferral. It 
said that it should have offered him a deferral then, which could have been in place for six 
months. And after this, it could have offered further help on his loan payments for another six 
months. Under the relevant guidance in place at the time, BoI said that none of this would 
have been reported on his credit file. 
But BoI didnt offer Mr Z this support at the time. It kept him on the £1 payment plan, allowed 
arrears to accrue, and it then reported late payments onto Mr Zs credit file. 
BoI said it was sorry it had let Mr Z down. It removed the late payment marks on his credit 
file, from 18 June 2020 to 30 June 2021. It also said it wouldnt put any further marks on his 
file for the next three months, covering a plan running from July to September. It asked him 
to get in touch if he couldnt meet the revised repayments due to start up again in October. 
BoI paid Mr Z £150 to say sorry. And it also said that if Mr Z could show that hed been 
turned down for loans with other lenders because of its incorrect reporting, then it would be 
happy to consider this. But Mr Z said hed been turned down for this lending over the phone, 
so he couldnt provide evidence of the loan applications.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said BoI accepted it had 
made mistakes in reporting on Mr Zs credit file, which it had now fixed. But our investigator 
said he couldnt be certain that Mr Z had been turned down for lending only because of the 
incorrect reporting by BoI. Our investigator said BoI had offered to reconsider if Mr Z could 
provide this evidence, and had paid Mr Z £150. Our investigator thought that was fair. 
Mr Z didnt agree. He wanted to know why BoI repeatedly made mistakes on his credit file. 
Our investigator said without evidence of the loans Mr Z took out, and an explanation of why 
these were refused, he wouldnt change his mind. Mr Z wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so this case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that when Mr Z received our investigators view, he said he had discussed this with 
his accountant and would send in further evidence of the loans he applied for. But the clear 
deadline our investigator set for sending in any additional information passed some months 
ago, and nothing further has been received. I think I do now have sufficient information to 
decide this case.
Mr Z hasnt been able to show us any details of the loan applications he said he made, so 
we dont know why he may have been turned down for extra lending. As our investigator 
explained, our service wouldnt hold BoI responsible for this unless we could see that Mr Z 
had made these applications, and the only reason he was turned down was because of 
something that BoI did wrong. 
BoI has accepted it made mistakes on Mr Zs credit file. But I need to think about whether Mr 
Z would have got the lending he told us about, if those mistakes werent made. And I cant 
be sure he would. 
I have to bear in mind the point when Mr Z has told us he was applying for credit was during 
an exceptionally difficult time for business trading in the UK. And I can see that Mr Z already 
had a considerable amount of other lending showing on his credit file at this time, both in 
loans and an overdraft. Additionally, he had other arrears showing on his credit file, on more 
than one loan, which seem to date from the period before coronavirus pandemic payment 
deferrals were available. It hasnt been suggested that these were a mistake. 
So even if Mr Z had been able to show us evidence that he made the loan applications he 
told us about, I would still not be able to say its more likely than not that he would have been 
successful in these applications, without the mistakes that BoI made. 
I understand Mr Z will be very disappointed, but that means I dont think BoI has to pay him 
the money he says his business lost. I havent been able to decide that this is BoIs fault. 
Although I havent been able to see that the consequences of BoIs mistakes were quite as 
wide ranging as Mr Z said, that doesnt mean BoI didnt make mistakes. We know it did. But 
BoI has amended Mr Zs credit file, set up a payment plan on his loan, and paid Mr Z £150 to 
say sorry for that. I think that does provide a fair outcome to this part of Mr Zs complaint. So 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr Z that this means I wont ask it to do more now, and Mr Zs 
complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman