DRN-3557533
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank dealt 
with a claim he sought to make under connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr B used his Tesco Bank credit card to pay for a holiday he booked using the services of 
L, a travel company. Unfortunately, he was unable to travel due to local restrictions 
imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr B sought to rearrange his booking for a later 
date, but was told this wasnt possible. He then found that his booking had been cancelled. 
Mr B says he didnt cancel the booking, but couldnt establish whether this had been done by 
L or one of the other travel companies involved in the arrangements. He contacted Tesco 
Bank to look into matters, on the basis thered been a breach of contract.
Tesco Bank  said there wasnt enough evidence to support a breach of contract claim. It 
offered to attempt to use the chargeback rules of the card scheme to see if that assisted in 
recovering Mr Bs money, but he maintained he wanted to pursue the breach of contract 
claim. In response to Mr Bs complaint, Tesco Bank declined to change its stance, although 
it did pay him a total of £100 in compensation to reflect customer service shortcomings.
Our investigator was satisfied with the steps Tesco Bank took to deal with its potential 
liability under section 75, and that even if the bank had pursued a chargeback claim, this 
wouldnt have been successful due to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the card scheme 
provider, MasterCard. She also noted Mr B Had recovered most of his money through his 
travel insurance, apart from a small excess and air passenger duty.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the fact he had travel insurance was irrelevant to his concerns 
over who had cancelled his holiday and what had happened to the money. It was important 
to him that he had answers that Tesco Bank, L and others were unwilling to provide. Hes 
asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling here. But in light of his comments in response to our 
investigator, it might be helpful if I explain that while we have wide-ranging powers to deal 
with many complaints about financial services and the organisations that provide them, we 
also have a responsibility to use our resources efficiently and appropriately.
In certain circumstances, our investigations into the actions of a financial service provider 
might turn up evidence that proves useful in clarifying something done by another party 
involved in the transaction. But primarily our role is to receive complaints about the 
businesses we cover, consider them and  where appropriate  say what we think needs to 
be done to resolve a dispute.
In this situation, Tesco Banks obligations towards Mr B were to consider the circumstances 
in which it might be liable to him, or able to assist him, over the recovery of the money he 
paid for his holiday. The two mechanisms under which these obligations arise are section 75 
and chargeback. I can see Tesco Bank offered to pursue a chargeback claim, but that Mr B 
didnt go ahead with this.
Im also satisfied Tesco Bank had due regard for its potential liability under section 75 as Mr 
Bs credit provider, who funded the transaction. Section 75 has the effect that where there 
has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier involved in the 
transaction, Mr B has the same claim against Tesco Bank as he does against the supplier. 
Theres no suggestion of misrepresentation in this case, and the bank didnt consider there 
was sufficient evidence to support Mr Bs breach of contract claim.
I accept that provision of the travel services was the main focus of Tesco Banks 
consideration here. I also share the investigators view that the non-refundable nature of 
Mr Bs booking, and the fact that the travel restrictions in Mr Bs local area didnt mean the 
supplier was unable (or failed) to perform its contractual obligations.
I know one of Mr Bs key concerns in pursuing matters is to establish who cancelled his 
holiday booking. Like the investigator, Ive found nothing to indicate that the arrangements 
were cancelled prior to the intended date of travel. While Mr B has shown he made enquiries 
about rearranging his holiday or securing a refund, the email correspondence hes provided 
regarding cancellation dates from after his holiday was scheduled to take place.
Its possible that cancellation was simply down to the fact that Mr B and his party were 
classed as no-show. However, while I appreciate this will disappoint Mr B, I dont need to 
look into this issue further in order to take a view on whether Tesco Bank needs to do 
anything more to resolve matters.
I say this because even if L had cancelled the booking without Mr Bs agreement, and that 
amounted to a breach of contract, it wouldnt mean Mr B would have been able to recover 
any more than he already has through his travel insurance. Such a cancellation didnt cause 
Mr B to become unable to travel; the Covid-19 restrictions already prevented him from doing 
so. Those restrictions didnt mean the flights, transfers or accommodation couldnt be carried 
out, and so his only viable recourse for recovering money would have been his travel 
insurance. Hes already recovered the insured amount under that policy.
I realise that this left Mr B £100 short due to the policy excess, and that the insurer didnt 
cover the air passenger duty (although I see the insurer has already told Mr B how he can go 
about reclaiming this amount). I also realise that the money isnt the main driving factor of 
this complaint. But given that Tesco Bank has paid Mr B £100 in recognition of its own 
service, which I consider fair in the circumstances, and that Im satisfied it hasnt dealt with 
him unfairly in relation to his section 75 claim, I hope he can take some comfort in the fact 
that in broad terms hes not out of pocket as a result of being unable to travel.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has paid a fair 
sum to Mr B to recognise the level of customer service it provided to him. I dont require the 
bank to take any further action in respect of his complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman