DRN-4083922
The complaint
Ms R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited declined her claim for a 
refund of money she had spent on defective building work, under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In September 2021 Ms R hired a contractor to do some building work on her home. She paid 
£1,250 on her American Express credit card, and made further payments totalling £3,900 by 
bank transfers. Altogether she paid £5,150 before firing the contractor for his shoddy work.
Ms R asked American Express for a refund under section 75. She provided a report from a 
chartered surveyor as evidence that the work had not been satisfactory, and to prove how 
much it would cost to remedy it.
American Express asked Ms R for the contractors terms and conditions, which she didnt 
have. For that reason, American Express said it was not possible for it to ascertain whether 
the contractor had breached its contract with her, or had misrepresented its services. It also 
said that section 75 didnt apply anyway, because her credit card payment had been made 
via a third party, Sumup.
Ms R brought this complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld it. He didnt think 
it mattered that the payment had been made via a payment facilitator, as both Sumup and 
the contractor were members of the same card scheme. He concluded that section 75 still 
applied to the transaction. He pointed out that it was a statutory implied term of Ms Rs 
contract that the contractor would carry out the agreed work with reasonable care and skill. 
He was satisfied that this term had been breached. He recommended that American 
Express pay Ms R £8,458, and also pay for the cost of the independent report if Ms R 
provided it with the authors invoice.
Ms R accepted that opinion, although she later added that another builder had identified 
some extra work that needed doing (screeding the concrete foundation for the garden path, 
which she said the original contractor had attempted to do). She supplied an invoice for that 
work, showing the cost to be £320.
However, American Express did not accept the investigators opinion, for the same reasons 
why it had originally rejected Ms Rs claim. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think it matters that Ms R has not provided the contractors terms and conditions. 
The contractual term she has alleged has been breached is not an express term, but an 
implied term under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Section 49 of the Act requires a service 
to be performed with reasonable care and skill. The surveyors report makes it clear that this 
was not done.
I have seen the contractors quote and invoice for the work, and evidence that Ms R paid 
them. So Im satisfied that she provided enough evidence for American Express to be sure 
that the work was done by that contractor, that she paid for it, and that the work was not 
performed properly.
Although Ms Rs card payment was made to a third party, Sumups sole involvement was to 
pass that payment on to the contractor as a payment facilitator. As Sumup, the contractor 
and American Express Services Europe Limited were members of the same card scheme, 
I think this was an arrangement within the meaning of section 12(b) of the 1974 Act. So Im 
satisfied that this transaction was financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and that 
accordingly section 75 of the 1974 Act applies to Ms Rs purchase. American Express is 
therefore liable to her for the contractors breach of the implied term.
I agree with how the investigator calculated the compensation, and his working has not been 
challenged by either party. I considered adding the £320 for re-screeding the garden path, 
but as the surveyors report does not state that this had already been attempted by the 
original contractor, I dont think there is enough evidence to support this part of Ms Rs claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order American Express Services Europe 
Limited to pay Ms R £8,458. I also order it to pay Ms R another £480 for the surveyors 
report, if and only if she provides the surveyors invoice and proof that she made that 
payment by 1 June 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman