DRN-3553298
The complaint
Mr M complained to us that Capital Professional Limited (trading as Ascot Lloyd) 
gave him poor advice to transfer out of his defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme. Sadly, Mr M died in April 2021 before our consideration of his 
complaint was concluded.
Mr Ms estate is now pursuing the complaint and is seeking to recover the losses 
it believes Mr M suffered.
The advice at the heart of this complaint was given by a different firm, B. Aspects 
of Bs business were then taken over by another firm, C. Ascot Lloyd later 
became responsible for C through an acquisition agreement, so this complaint 
has ultimately been made against Ascot Lloyd. For ease of reading Ill refer to 
Ascot Lloyd throughout my decision.
The estate is supported by a professional representative in bringing this complaint. But for 
ease of reading, all actions and comments will be noted as Mr Ms and his estates.
What happened
Mr M had a deferred pension from a former employer.
According to what Mr M later recalled, in 1999, private pensions were all the big 
thing, not least because it was possible to access a private pension earlier than 
in a workplace scheme, whilst releasing a lump sum payment. Mr M thought his 
DB pension might be better off in one of the new pension schemes, so he 
approached Ascot Lloyd for advice about potentially transferring out of his DB 
pension scheme.
Ascot Lloyd completed a fact find in February 1999. At that point, Mr M would 
have been around age 50. It noted the following about him:
He was divorced;
He was in excellent health;
He had no dependents;
He was self-employed with an income of around £1,200 a month. All of his income 
went towards household bills and living expenses. Mr M had no other  disposable 
income;
He was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. His 
pension fund had a transfer value of £28,837.00, which was subject to a 
5-year guaranteed period once the pension was in payment. That figure 
included excess benefits of £21,256.00 (which would have been subject 
to increases by the RPI) and guaranteed minimum pension benefits of 
£7,581.00;
He owned a property valued at £36,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£16,000. He paid around £145.00 a month towards his mortgage 
payments;
His total assets in terms of his pension benefits; home; contents; car 
and personal possessions amounted to £78,837.00;
His liabilities were £17,200, including his mortgage and a credit card 
debt of £1,200. 
According to the fact-find, Mr Ms recorded aims were:
To restructure his pension benefits using the early retirement rules to 
obtain the maximum tax-free cash. This would enable Mr M to make 
home improvements and go on a much needed holiday.
Other ways of meeting these aims were apparently discussed and 
discounted. Those included securing an additional mortgage or loan. Mr M 
also didnt have a life assurance policy or other readily realisable assets.
Ascot Lloyd noted, from a pension transfer analysis report, the benefits Mr M 
might expect to get from his DB pension if he remained within the scheme until 
normal retirement age. It then compared that with the amounts Mr M might 
receive from other types of pensions, including a personal pension and a section 
32 buy-out plan.
Pension payable Existing scheme Personal pension Buy-out plan
From age 65 £4,260 £3,890 £4,400
Investment return 
needed to match the 
benefits from the 
existing scheme6.7% 6.7%
Ascot Lloyd said there are no clear guidelines as to what is an acceptable 
investment return required to match benefits from your ex-employers scheme, 
your own attitude to risk should be the deciding factor.
However, it said that as well as the annual return, there were other things that 
might affect Mr Ms decision to transfer, such as the amount of tax-free cash 
that can be taken at retirement; how much would be paid if Mr M were to die 
before retirement age or the amounts he might receive if he were to retire early. 
But in terms of maximising his retirement income, it said early retirement and 
pension transfer were not suitable, as any benefit taken from the fund would 
reduce the income available in retirement. It added that You should consider 
carefully the future benefits you will be giving up for those you are gaining 
today.
Ascot Lloyd described Mr Ms attitude to risk as balanced  meaning he was 
prepared to see his investments fluctuate in return for potentially higher growth. It 
also noted Mr M wanted a reasonable proportion of his pension invested in 
equity-based investments (which Ascot Lloyd noted can go down as well as up in 
value) and possibly a higher risk fund.
However, as Mr M had stated that he wished to maximise the tax-free cash lump 
sum available whilst deferring the rest, it recommended he transfer his pension 
into a personal pension and section 32 buy-out plan (excess benefits transferred 
to this plan could be payable from age 50) as that best suited his overall needs. 
Ascot Lloyd also noted that by splitting Mr Ms benefits into two plans, the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) could be accepted into a separate contract, which would remain invested and could potentially become payable 
from age 60 (although it felt it would be better left invested until age 65).
Mr M followed Ascot Lloyds advice and transferred his DB pension as 
recommended. 
The pension provider indicated that Mr M started taking his pension benefits at age 60.
Having seen adverts about pension transfers, around 2019, Mr M sought 
advice about whether hed been wrongly advised to transfer out of his DB 
scheme.
He then wrote to Ascot Lloyd in January 2020 complaining about the advice hed 
received in 1999. Amongst other things he said:
The personal pensions werent suitable for him;
The adviser didnt properly establish his attitude to risk, or carry out 
an adequate fact-find;
The adviser didnt discuss in full the funds to be invested in or the fees 
involved and how theyd affect his investment returns.
Ascot Lloyd responded in May 2020. Amongst other things it said it could find no 
evidence that B (as I mentioned earlier, a firm whose advice it later became 
responsible for) had given advice to Mr M. In any event, it said that even if B had 
given advice in 1999, the complaint had been made too late.
Mr M complained to this service. Amongst other things he explained that the 
greater returns hed been led to expect by transferring his DB pension hadnt 
materialised. So, he felt hed been wrongly advised by Ascot Lloyd.
We asked Ascot Lloyd for its file and it made similar comments about there being 
no evidence of any advice being given. And, again, it felt that the complaint had 
been made too late. It added that Mr M ought to have known much earlier that the 
benefits from the scheme he transferred into may not be as good as if he hadnt 
transferred. Ascot Lloyd didnt give its consent for us to look into the complaint.
Following a review by an Investigator, another Ombudsman here looked into the 
complaint and decided it had been made in time for the purposes of our rules.
Although Ascot Lloyd initially said Mr M hadnt been given advice, the 
contemporaneous evidence we received, including a fact find, suggested 
otherwise. So, our investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
Having done that, he concluded that Ascot Lloyd hadnt acted fairly. Amongst his 
reasons for saying so, our investigator said:
The advice to transfer wasnt suitable  Mr M was only 50 years 
old at the time and the pension benefits hed built up would have 
been relatively secure and would have formed a significant part of 
his pension provision;
Whilst the critical yield needed to match the benefits being given up 
wasnt far off the expected growth level, that would only have the 
effect of matching the level of benefits being given up if achieved. 
So, in order to make a transfer worthwhile, a higher rate of return 
would be needed to exceed the benefits being given up. But that 
needed to be considered alongside Mr Ms attitude to risk. 
Realistically, the investigator thought that Mr Ms investment would 
need to grow at a level between the lower and medium projections 
(around 6-9%). And, whilst Ascot Lloyd suggested that Mr M was a 
balanced investor, it hadnt shown its assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk to check that it was consistent. However, the 
investigator thought Mr M was probably more a low risk investor 
with no capacity for loss. And, if he had invested in funds more 
suited to his attitude to risk, it was unlikely the growth would match 
the critical yield, let alone exceed it.
In summary, the investigator didnt see any compelling reason for Mr M to transfer 
his pension, nor did he think it was reasonable to give up pension benefits for the 
things Mr M wanted to do. In addition, he didnt think Ascot Lloyd had given Mr M 
strong enough reasons to indicate why he shouldnt transfer out of his DB scheme. 
And he didnt think its wording could be considered a recommendation not to 
transfer. If anything, the investigator thought the wording would be considered a 
recommendation to transfer as it said Given your objectives of maximising the 
cash lump sum available to you and then deferring as much of the pension as 
possible, we recommend option 4. This will result in the conversion of the 
maximum possible amount of your pension fund to a tax-free lump sum. Had Ascot 
Lloyd given a clearer recommendation not to transfer, the investigator didnt think 
Mr M would have gone ahead.
Whilst Ascot Lloyd didnt agree with the findings the investigator reached, it also 
said it was no longer responsible for the advice given due to the terms of a 
revised acquisition agreement made some years earlier. In short, as the other 
firms involved had ceased trading, Ascot Lloyd felt it was no longer liable for the 
advice given.
Our investigator considered Ascot Lloyds comments and, based on the 
evidence held, he concluded that it was responsible for the advice. Amongst his 
reasons he said that, (regardless of Ascot Lloyds latest position), it had taken 
responsibility for responding to Mr Ms complaint and had given him a final 
response. And as it hadnt given us a copy of an agreement, which clearly 
showed it was no longer responsible for the advice, the investigator concluded it 
was responsible.
Ascot Lloyd maintained the position that it wasnt responsible for the advice. 
As it didnt accept our investigators assessment, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr Ms estate and Ascot Lloyd my provisional decision on 1 June 2022.
In it I said the following:
Our services authority to look into this complaint
Given Ascot Lloyds position that its not liable for the advice given in this 
case, Ive first considered, based on the evidence available to me, whether 
this is a complaint we have authority to look into.
Amongst its arguments, whilst appearing to accept that it was previously liable for 
any advice given, Ascot Lloyd said a variation agreement superseded the original 
agreement. Its also indicated that the later agreement was only enforceable until 
such time as the companies involved ceased trading. And, as both firms had 
apparently been dissolved, it said it no longer has any liability in relation to the 
advice given.
Despite requests, I havent been given a copy of an acquisition agreement that sets 
out the definitive position Ascot Lloyds referred to. In cases like this, where the 
evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide, on balance, whats most likely 
to have happened.As Ive stated, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Ascot Lloyd did at one point 
assume responsibility for advice given by another firm. But Ascot Lloyd thinks any 
liability it had ended when the company acquired ceased trading. And its also 
argued that company can no longer fulfil its responsibilities such as providing Ascot 
Lloyd with information and case files. Nor can it enforce Ascot Lloyds obligations 
under the agreement. In Ascot Lloyds view, any claims against the firm that gave the 
original advice should now be referred to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
Ive thought about all of this. And whilst I acknowledge the points Ascot Lloyd makes, 
Im not persuaded by its position. Ascot Lloyd hasnt given me any persuasive 
evidence to show that any liability it had concerning advice given by firm B ceased 
when it stopped trading. Whereas the professional representative acting for Mr Ms 
estate has given me other evidence, which does suggest that Ascot Lloyd may in fact 
have an ongoing liability in cases such as this. Whilst that evidence (in the form of a 
letter from the FSCS) does relate to a different (and unconnected) complaint, the 
circumstances do appear similar to those in this case. And, on balance, Im more 
persuaded by that evidence than Ascot Lloyds account of its position. That being the 
case and unless I receive further evidence that sets out a more definitive position, Im 
intending to say that Ascot Lloyd is responsible for the advice in this case and the 
complaint is one that this service has authority to look into.
So, Ive now gone on to consider the substance of the complaint.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law; any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint for many of the same reasons our 
investigator gave.
What was Ascot Lloyd required to do?
The advice was provided by Ascot Lloyd in early 1999. At that time it was regulated by the 
Personal Investment Authority, (PIA). PIA set out various obligations for financial firms 
when advising on pension transfers. In doing so, it also adopted some of the rules and 
best practice in place from previous regulatory frameworks.
In short, Ascot Lloyd was expected to demonstrate that any advice and 
recommendations it made were in the clients best interests. In doing so, it would be 
expected to show that its advice and recommendation reflected Mr Ms circumstances; 
objectives and risk profile.
So, its against that backdrop that Ive considered whether Ascot Lloyd acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Ms particular case.
Did Ascot Lloyd act in Mr Ms best interests?
Ascot Lloyd had to bear in mind that Mr M had accrued a certain amount of valuable 
benefits and guarantees as a member of the DB scheme. Unlike other types of pension, 
those werent based on investment returns, and some were subject to incremental 
increases.
The pension that Mr M was looking to transfer had a value of over £28,000. And at 
retirement age it was expected to give him an annual income of just over £4,000 a year (reduced if he took the maximum tax-free cash available). Theres no mention in the fact 
find of Mr M having access to another pension fund apart from his state pension, so its 
reasonable to assume his pension benefits would have been a fairly important source of 
guaranteed income for him in retirement. Its also worth noting that at the time of the 
advice, Mr M was self-employed. Assuming his employment status stayed that way until 
retirement, its possible his earnings may have been subject to fluctuation and may not 
have been guaranteed. So, Id have thought having a guaranteed source of income in 
retirement would become all the more important. And I think that was something that Ascot 
Lloyd needed to give careful consideration to when recommending a transfer.
Income needs
Mr M said he was interested in transferring his DB pension to release some tax-free 
cash to carry out home improvements and have a much needed holiday. In 
themselves, theyre not unusual objectives. And, later on when recalling why he sought 
advice about transferring his DB pension, Mr M said that private pensions were all the 
big thing around 1999 and were seen as attractive to many customers, not least 
because benefits could potentially be accessed earlier than in a DB scheme.
I can certainly see how accessing a pension pot a number of years earlier than 
expected might seem like a very attractive proposition  especially if the 
customer had limited or no other disposable income, as appears to have been 
the case with Mr M. But before it did anything else, it seems to me that Ascot 
Lloyd needed to understand, bearing in mind what Mr M would be giving up if he 
did transfer, just how important it was for him to access his tax-free cash to meet 
his objectives. I say that because theres a world of difference between it being 
nice to have early access to retirement funds and Mr M needing access to them.
So, this is something that Ascot Lloyd should have explored and advised Mr M 
about. And, having done that, I think it should have pointed out to Mr M that using 
his pension to fund home improvements and a holiday wasnt a good idea. But, 
other than noting the objectives themselves, theres no evidence the conversation 
went much beyond that.
Ascot Lloyd did tell Mr M that accessing his retirement savings early was likely 
to lead to a reduced income in retirement. I dont disagree with that statement 
per se. But Id have thought any such statement needed to be made in the 
context of what his actual income needs in retirement were likely to be. Again, 
theres no evidence this was discussed.
Furthermore, Mr M was only around age 50 at the time of the advice and theres no 
evidence to suggest he had any concrete retirement plans, so it seems to me that it 
was probably too soon to make any firm decisions about transferring out of the DB 
scheme, especially as its not clear what his income needs in retirement would be. 
If Mr M later had reason to transfer out of the DB scheme, he could have revisited 
the position then.
In any event, early retirement from Mr Ms DB scheme wasnt an option. So, if Mr 
M was intent on transferring his DB pension as a means of ultimately accessing 
the tax-free cash he was looking for, Ascot Lloyd needed to clearly explain the 
implications of doing so. And whilst I can see that in the suitability report it said in 
terms of maximising your retirement income, early retirement and pension transfer 
are not suitable. You should consider carefully the future benefits you will be giving 
up for those you are gaining today I think Ascot Lloyd also needed to explain what 
that meant in real terms. For instance, I think it should have made sure Mr M 
understood that once invested, his pension would be exposed to a level of risk that 
wasnt previously the case. And that could mean an already reduced pension pot 
at retirement (having already taken his tax-free cash some years earlier) could 
reduce even further. Again, I havent seen anything that persuades me Ascot Lloyd explained things in these sufficiently clear terms.
Financial  viability
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 
'discount rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide 
Pensions Review. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the 
advice was given in this case.
Ascot Lloyd said the critical yield needed to match the benefits Mr M would be 
giving up at age 65 would be 6.7% if he took a full pension. The suitability report 
doesnt appear to mention the critical yield needed if Mr M were to take tax-free 
cash and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer 
to was 6.6% for 15 years to retirement. The regulator made clear at the time of this 
advice that a consumer shouldnt be any worse off by transferring out of a DB 
scheme. On the face of it at least, the growth rate didnt seem wholly 
unachievable. However, I think it was probably understated, especially when 
things such as charges were factored in. And, that was important if Mr M was to 
be able to make a true comparison and satisfy himself that hed be no worse off in 
retirement if he went ahead with the transfer.
But all of this needed to be considered in the context of Mr Ms attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. And Im not persuaded that Ascot Lloyd accurately assessed 
those things. It said Mr M had a balanced attitude to risk. Thats someone 
typically comfortable with their investments fluctuating to achieve a greater level of 
return. It also noted that Mr M was comfortable investing a proportion of his 
pension in a higher risk fund. Ive seen no completed risk questionnaires, so I dont 
know how Mr M answered the various questions put to him.
Ascot Lloyds since argued that it assessed his attitude to risk fairly using the various risk 
assessment tools in place at the time. Whilst that might be the case, Im not persuaded 
that alone was enough. I say that because as far as I can tell, Mr M had no investment 
experience. And Ascot Lloyd ought to have known from its fact-find that Mr M had no 
leftover disposable income each month or assets that he could readily fall back on if he 
needed to. And whilst its possible that he may have indicated he was comfortable in 
taking some risk, thats not the same as having the capacity to do so or the means to 
absorb any losses that might follow. Given Mr Ms circumstances, it seems more likely to 
me that he had no capacity for loss. That being the case, by describing Mr M as a 
balanced investor (despite his investment inexperience) realistically, his pension funds 
are likely to have been exposed to a level of risk, and potential losses, that Mr M had no 
capacity to absorb. And I think Ascot Lloyd ought to have known that.
Ascot Lloyds recommendation
Ascot Lloyd told Mr M hed be better leaving his DB pension in place if he wanted to 
maximise his income in retirement. But it then went on to say that if he wished to 
maximise the tax-free cash lump sum (whilst deferring the rest of his pension until his 
scheme pension age), hed be better transferring his DB pension into a combination of a 
personal pension and a section 32 buy-out plan. Essentially, Ascot Lloyd placed Mr M in 
an either/or situation. And I think this made it far too easy for him to simply decide that 
transferring out was a suitable alternative to staying in the scheme. Especially as, in my 
opinion, Ascot Lloyd didnt do enough to persuade him otherwise. Ascot Lloyd ought to 
have known that, given his circumstances, a decision to transfer out of the DB scheme was not in Mr Ms best interests. And I think it should have explained that to him in no 
uncertain terms.
Ascot Lloyd has since suggested that Mr M chose not to follow its full recommendation 
(the inference being that it recommended he didnt transfer). And as far as it seems to 
be concerned, Mr M was minded to go ahead with the transfer anyway, irrespective of 
the advice given, as it was his only means of accessing his tax-free cash.
I dont agree with Ascot Lloyds interpretation of what happened. In my view, telling Mr M 
that he might be better off leaving his DB pension in place if he wanted to maximise his 
retirement income, doesnt amount to a clear recommendation not to transfer. Had Ascot 
Lloyd clearly stated its recommendation was for Mr M to leave his pension as it was, I 
think Mr M would have been left in little doubt about what Ascot Lloyd thought best for 
him. In the absence of a clear recommendation to show what was in Mr Ms best 
interests overall, I cant fairly say Ascot Lloyd did what was expected. Nor did it enable 
Mr M to make a balanced and more informed decision.
Would Mr M have gone ahead anyway?
Ive thought carefully about this question and whether Mr M is likely to have insisted on 
going ahead anyway even if hed been given a clear recommendation not to transfer. And 
notwithstanding the fact that Mr M was clearly interested in accessing tax-free cash early, 
(which wasnt an option within his DB scheme), I dont think he would have done.
I say that because Mr M wasnt an experienced investor. And hed gone to Ascot Lloyd 
for advice. So, I think Ascot Lloyd had an obligation to give him advice that was in his 
best interests overall. And for the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think its done that. Had 
Ascot Lloyd clearly explained that it didnt recommend Mr M transfer out of his DB 
scheme, not least because he may be worse off in retirement, I think hed have listened 
to Ascot Lloyd and left things as they were.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that this service has authority to look into the 
complaint. Im also intending to uphold the substance of the complaint.
Ive set out below what Im intending to say Ascot Lloyd should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what Ascot Lloyd needs to do to put things right, Im mindful that 
this complaint is now being pursued by Mr Ms estate rather than Mr M himself. Its not 
clear if the estate has already received benefits from Mr Ms pension plans. Nor is it 
completely clear, what, if any, benefits the estate would have been entitled to had Mr 
M remained in his DB scheme.So, we dont yet know whether the estate has actually 
suffered a financial loss.
The terms of Mr Ms DB scheme didnt allow for early retirement and the normal 
scheme retirement age was 65. Given this, had he stayed in the DB scheme, it 
seems likely that Mr M would have started to take his benefits at age 65. Whereas, 
he apparently started taking some benefits from his personal pensions around the 
age of 60.
In order to ascertain whether theres been a loss that the estate might now be 
entitled to, Im intending to say that Ascot Lloyd should:
compare the benefits that Mr M received from his personal pensions up 
to the date of his death compared with the income he would have 
received had he taken benefits from his DB scheme. (If there is a loss, 
that amount should be paid to Mr Ms estate).provide its calculations to the estate in a clear and easy to understand format.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ms estate responded to say that it had no further comments to make. 
Ascot Lloyd hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr Ms estate nor Ascot Lloyd has given me additional comments or new 
evidence to consider, I see no reason to change what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Capital Professional Limited now needs to put things right as I set 
out in my provisional decision and as noted above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Ms estate to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman