DRN-1817227
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reinstate her No Claims Bonus (NCB). 
What happened
Ms M told Advantage that shed caused minor damage to a neighbours car, but it was being 
settled privately. She asked to be contacted if a claim was made. Advantage wrote to Ms M 
to confirm this and it also, incorrectly, wrote to the other driver asking for details of the claim. 
The other driver made a claim and Advantage settled this without contacting Ms M 
beforehand. It said this was its process as liability had been confirmed. Ms M thought shed 
been lied to and that Advantage had gone behind her back. Her NCB had been affected. 
Advantage offered Ms M £50 compensation for its poor customer service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantage should have told Ms M about the claim. But she didnt think the outcome would 
have been different and she thought Advantage was entitled to settle the claim as it deemed 
fit. She thought Advantages offer of £50 compensation for the upset caused by its customer 
service was fair and reasonable. 
Ms M replied that Advantage had lied to her about not writing to her neighbour. She thought 
this letter had changed the claim outcome. She thought Advantage had been wrong to settle 
the claim as total loss. She said she hadnt accepted liability when she notified Advantage of 
the incident. She also said her neighbour had been pressed to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms M feels frustrated that a minor incident has had such serious 
consequences for her. I was sorry to hear about the stress and upset she was feeling. She 
thinks this all stems from Advantages mistake in writing to her neighbour so that he made a 
claim rather than dealing with the matter privately. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ms M said she hadnt accepted liability for the incident. She said when she called Advantage 
to notify it, she couldnt be sure shed scratched her neighbours car. And I can see that this 
is what Advantage recorded on its file. But Ms M told us, in her complaint, I very slightly 
grazed my neighbours car and there was really minor damage to his. 
So I think Ms M was aware that shed hit the car although the damage had been minor. 
Advantage said it had told Ms M that shed be held at fault for the incident. So I think its 
stance on liability was clear.
I understand that Ms M said she hadnt accepted liability. But Advantage is entitled under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Ms M to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees 
fit. Ms M has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont 
find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is 
reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
The neighbour had told Ms M he wanted the damage fixed and agreed to provide a quote. 
Ms M called Advantage and it agreed to contact her if a claim was made. It noted that Ms M 
had photographs of the damage. The next Ms M heard was that the claim had been settled 
and closed and Advantage had paid her neighbour for the cars total loss. She then found 
out that Advantage had written to the neighbour asking for evidence of the claim. 
I can understand Ms Ms upset when she was told this. And I can see that this was an 
administrative error on Advantages part. But I think it was up to the neighbour to decide if he 
wanted to make a claim. Ms M hadnt spoken to him further about the incident and she told 
us she thought hed decided to drop it. 
Ive seen the letter Advantage sent to the neighbour and it asks him to contact it about his 
options. The neighbour could have settled the matter privately, gone though insurers, or, as 
he decided, an accident management company. I cant say that Advantages error led to his 
decision to make a claim. I think this was his choice. In any case, as Ive said above, 
according to the policy terms and conditions, I think Advantage has the right to decide how 
to handle and settle a claim. 
Ms M was unhappy that Advantage relied on the neighbours photographs to settle the claim 
and didnt ask for hers. But I dont think there was any dispute about the amount of damage 
caused. Advantage considered an engineers report on the damage. Advantage settled the 
claim based on the cars total loss due to the cost of the repairs compared to the cars 
market value. It made deductions for the cars pre-accident damage. So I think Advantage 
correctly settled the claim based on engineering evidence and I cant see that Ms Ms 
photographs would have made any change to this outcome. 
A fault claim was recorded against Ms M and her NCB was affected. But I think this would 
have happened in any case as she had reported clipping her neighbours car. 
Advantage agreed that it had made an error by settling the neighbours claim without telling 
Ms M, as it had agreed to do. It said this was its process when liability was confirmed. I think 
it had already told Ms M she would be held at fault for the incident, and so her NCB would be 
affected. I cant see that there was any disagreement about the damage caused. So I dont 
think Ms Ms evidence would have made any difference to Advantages decision. 
So I think the outcome would have been the same if Advantage had told Ms M that the 
neighbour was claiming. It offered her £50 compensation for the upset this caused. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. I 
dont require Advantage to do anything further. 
The investigator has already suggested that Ms M should contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) if she has concerns that Advantage shared her personal 
information without her consent.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman