DRN-3117641
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lighthouse Advisory Service Limited mis-sold him a level term 
assurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2001, at the time of arranging a mortgage, Mr G took out a level term 
assurance policy, which provided £81,000 cover in the event he died or was diagnosed with 
a critical illness during the 25-year term. The policy also offered £6,000 per year disability 
income benefit if Mr G was unable to work due to sickness, accident or disability. The policy 
was sold by a business that has since been acquired by Lighthouse Advisory Service 
Limited.
Mr G recently complained that the policy had been mis-sold to him. He said the adviser was 
pushy and led him to believe cover was compulsory, and without it he would not be able to 
obtain a mortgage.  He said he had no need for the policy as he was single with no 
dependants at the time of the sale. He said the recommendation that he take level cover was 
unsuitable as his mortgage was taken out on a repayment basis. He said a decreasing term 
policy would have been more suitable. 
Lighthouse reviewed the sale but concluded, based on the available evidence, that its 
adviser had acted reasonably in the circumstances. It said the evidence demonstrated that 
Mr G had been presented with the options of both level term and decreasing term cover. It 
said in the absence of any further evidence it assumed Mr G had opted for level cover 
because it offered more cover for a marginally higher premium. 
Mr G disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. He said while the adviser had 
presented both quotes, he was aggressively insistent that the cover was compulsory and 
that he had to take out a level term policy. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She noted that whilst 
there was limited information from the time of the sale, this was unsurprising given the time 
that had since passed. While there wasnt clear evidence to show exactly what was 
discussed, she was persuaded, on balance, that a discussion had most likely taken place 
about the different levels of cover available and that Mr G had most likely opted for level 
cover. She also considered that there was enough time between receiving the advice and 
the policy starting for Mr G to have questioned anything that didnt seem right. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In summary, 
he said:
The company that sold the policy was in the process of moving to Lighthouse at the 
time of the sale. Hes suggested that this made it more likely that the adviser made a 
mistake when selling the policy. And he couldnt recall a fact find or suitability report 
being completed at the time. 
His circumstances at the time of the sale  notably the fact that he was single with no 
dependants - meant he had no need for any life cover, let alone level term cover. 
He disagreed with the Investigators suggestion that hed selected level cover over 
decreasing cover in order to obtain additional life cover. He said had he needed 
additional cover hed have wanted a specific sum of cover rather than just the 
balance after his mortgage was repaid.
He noted there were factual discrepancies within the illustrations which suggested 
that a fact find had not been completed and that the adviser made mistakes while he 
rushed to complete the sale. 
Mr G also drew attention to a published final decision, in which an ombudsman had 
decided that a decreasing term assurance policy should have been sold instead of a 
level term assurance policy alongside a repayment mortgage. He considers the same 
principle should apply to his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G as this was not the answer 
he was hoping for. But having carefully considered the available evidence I cant fairly 
conclude that the policy was mis-sold. Let me explain why. 
Its important to note the sale of this policy took place nearly 20 years ago. This has had a 
significant impact on the availability of evidence. Its not unusual in cases such as this for 
there to be limited, or in some cases, no evidence available from the time of the sale. 
In this case Ive been presented with two personal illustrations, one for a level term policy 
and one for a decreasing term policy. The illustrations set out the cost of cover and the key 
policy benefits. Ive also been presented with a policy benefit cover sheet, which sets out the 
policy start and end date as well as a table of the key benefits. 
I think its most likely these documents were presented alongside other documentation at the 
time of the sale. Lighthouse has said the adviser wouldve completed a fact find and 
provided Mr G with a suitability report at the point of sale, which were the regulatory 
requirements at the time. While Mr G doesnt recall receiving any documentation, I think its 
unlikely the documents hes provided wouldve been given to him in isolation without further 
explanatory documents, like a suitability report. So, I consider it most likely that a fact find 
and suitability report were completed and were provided to Mr G at the time.
But both Mr G and Lighthouse have said they have no further documentation from when the 
policy was sold. And indeed, theres no obligation on a business to retain information 
indefinitely. In the circumstances I dont think its unreasonable that a full sales file hasnt 
been retained. 
Where the available evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The absence of information from the time of the sale isnt enough for me to conclude the
policy was mis-sold. To conclude that Id need Mr G to persuade me, either through his
testimony or other evidence, that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Was cover compulsory?Im not persuaded, based on the available evidence, that Mr G was misled into thinking 
cover was either compulsory or a condition of his lending.
Theres no documentary evidence from the time of the sale to suggest Mr G was coerced 
into taking out cover. And whilst Mr G has suggested that this is what he was told, his 
recollection of events has not been consistent. Hes referred to being strongly advised to 
take out cover, having received strong and forceful advice, and also being told it was 
necessary and compulsory. 
Given the amount of time that has passed since the policy was sold, its unsurprising that 
Mr Gs recollection is a little unclear or inconsistent. I wouldnt expect him to recall word for 
word a conversation that took place so long ago. But consequently, I cant attach much 
evidential weight to his recollection for the same reason. Particularly as memories can 
become altered over time. Especially when influenced by other factors, not least the publicity 
around the widespread mis-selling of payment protection insurance, which Mr G has 
confirmed motivated him to raise this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, there is a difference between being strongly advised to 
take out cover and being told cover was compulsory. Given that Mr G was taking out a 
mortgage I think it was appropriate for an adviser to recommend that he consider 
appropriate protection. I accept that this advice was likely strongly worded. But I dont think 
that is necessarily unreasonable. Advisers would want to make their clients aware of the 
potentially serious consequences of not protecting their borrowing. To some, this advice may 
feel difficult to turn down, but I dont think this is the same as being forced to take it out. 
I must also factor in that there was time between Mr G seeking advice (17 September 2001) 
and the policy being put in place (1 November 2001). Had Mr G felt coerced into taking out 
cover, I consider that he would reasonably have had opportunity to question this at some 
time after the sales meeting if he felt unhappy with the advisers conduct. I havent seen 
anything to suggest he did so.    
Was the policy unsuitable? 
Firstly, its important to note that Mr G and/or his next of kin was able to benefit from all parts 
of the policy. Had he been diagnosed with a listed critical illness he would have been able to 
claim the full £81,000 sum assured. Had he been unable to work due to ill-health or an 
accident he could have claimed an annual £6,000 benefit from the policy. And indeed, I 
consider that both critical illness cover, and disability income benefit, were reasonable 
recommendations for Mr G at the time as they provided some assurance that his mortgage 
would be repaid in the event he was seriously ill. And in the unfortunate event hed died 
during the policy term his estate would have benefited from sum assured. So, I cant 
conclude the policy was wholly unsuitable or inappropriate. 
But I accept that Mr G was sold more cover than I would necessarily expect to see for 
someone in his circumstances. 
There isnt a clear and obvious need for life cover for someone who is single with no 
dependants. But equally its not wholly unsuitable, particularly for someone in early life 
where theres an expectation that their personal circumstances could change. Life cover is 
also often included with critical illness policies for a marginally higher premium than 
standalone critical illness cover. 
Given Mr G was taking out a repayment mortgage, I agree that a decreasing term assurance 
policy wouldve provided suitable protection for that borrowing. The sum assured on a 
decreasing term policy decreases largely in line with the borrowing being paid off so theres no cover over and above the level of borrowing. But that doesnt mean that a 
recommendation to take out level term assurance is wholly unsuitable. A level term policy 
just guarantees a consistent level of cover throughout the life of the policy. 
Mr G has confirmed that he was presented with two illustrations for cover. These clearly set 
out the difference in price and benefits between the two types of cover. While I cant know 
for certain what was discussed, the fact that two illustrations were produced suggests to me, 
on balance, that a discussion about the two types of cover most likely took place. 
Lighthouse has noted that the difference in premium between the two policies was minimal - 
£2.40 a month. It has suggested that this may have motivated Mr G to opt for the level term 
policy as it guaranteed him more cover over the life of the policy. I think this suggestion is 
reasonable and plausible in the circumstances. And in the absence of any further evidence, 
Im not persuaded that an alternative explanation is more plausible than this. 
Overall, the policy sold to Mr G was a deviation from what Id generally expect to see. But, 
the deviation wasnt so unusual for me to deem it wholly unsuitable. In the absence of any 
further evidence to suggest the advisor acted improperly, I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman