DRN-3344656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their mortgage with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage 
Credit. Theyre unhappy they received a letter they think is threatening on Christmas Eve, 
that Pepper used payments made during a payment deferral to reduce their arrears, and that 
Pepper didnt respond to their emails or tell them about a court date.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have an interest only mortgage with Pepper. Unfortunately it appears theyre 
in negative equity, and the mortgage has also been in arrears for a long time.
Pepper took them to court in 2019 to enforce a suspended possession order. Mr and Mrs W 
offered to pay an additional £200 per month to reduce the arrears and the court adjourned 
the case to April 2020 to see whether they would be able to sustain those payments. Mr and 
Mrs W say Pepper didnt notify them of the new court date.
Mr and Mrs W made the additional payments until March 2020. But then following the start of 
the coronavirus pandemic, they requested a payment deferral which Pepper granted. Due to 
the pandemic court hearings and repossession actions, including the hearing scheduled for 
April 2020, were cancelled. 
Part of Mr and Mrs Ws monthly payments are made by the Department of Work and 
Pensions (DWP) as part of their benefits entitlement. Mr and Mrs W say they expected that 
Pepper would retain those payments during the payment deferral so they could be offset 
against the additional payments they would have to make later. But instead Pepper used the 
payments to reduce Mr and Mrs Ws arrears.
Once the payment deferral ended, Mr and Mrs W questioned what had happened to the 
DWP payments. They complain that Pepper didnt respond to their emails  and when it did, 
it sent them a threatening and upsetting letter on Christmas Eve.
Pepper said that Mr and Mrs W were aware of the April hearing date, since they were in 
court when it was set. It said that it didnt expect any payments from Mr and Mrs W during 
the payment deferral but that continued DWP payments couldnt be used to create an 
overpayment reserve for the future when their account was in arrears; instead, they needed 
to be used to reduce the arrears. It accepted that it had delayed in replying to their emails, 
and offered £50 compensation. But when it did reply, it said, the letter was appropriate and 
relevant.
Our investigator thought that was fair. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the various difficulties Mr and Mrs W have had, including Mrs Ws 
health concerns. Ive taken that into account. But Im satisfied Pepper hasnt treated them 
unfairly.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W were unaware of the court hearing set for April 2020. It seems 
they were in court when the date was set, and Pepper wrote to them notifying them of it. 
They were represented too, so their representative would also have told them the date.
In any case, the court hearing didnt go ahead because of the pandemic. Mr and Mrs Ws 
sole income is from benefits, so their income wouldnt have been affected by the covid-19 
restrictions. But Pepper still allowed them to take the full six months payment deferral.
During that period Mr and Mrs W made no payments  either their contractual monthly 
payments, or towards the arrears. But the DWP payments continued to be made. It was 
reasonable for Pepper to put those towards the mortgage balance; as it had agreed not to 
collect monthly payments, they were used to reduce the arrears. That means that the arrears 
reduced over that period, which benefitted Mr and Mrs W. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Pepper to put the money to one side, 
rather than using it to reduce the mortgage balance, so that Mr and Mrs W could have longer 
without making payments. Thats especially the case when the income and expenditure 
assessments theyve completed regularly show that they were able to afford the mortgage 
payments. And they offered to pay £200 extra a month towards the arrears in December 
2019  but stopped doing so once they took a payment deferral even though their benefits 
income continued. By then they were the equivalent of 50 months in arrears, and taking a 
payment deferral increased their balance further. Using the DWP payments meant that 
Pepper protected them from some of that.
Pepper should have replied to Mr and Mrs Ws October 2020 email quicker than it did. But 
the email just asked what more Pepper could do to support them now the payment deferral 
had ended. Pepper had a discussion with Mr W about what it could offer  essentially, a 
reduced payment arrangement if their income and expenditure showed that was necessary  
but Mr W wasnt happy with that. Its difficult to see what else could have been done given 
the position the mortgage was in by then.
When Pepper did write to them, the letter was appropriate to their circumstances. I dont 
agree that it was threatening or inappropriate. It set out the position and the possible 
consequences if Mr and Mrs W didnt take steps to get things back on track. Its unfortunate 
it arrived on Christmas Eve. But it was sent during a normal working week, and the 
alternative of waiting until the new year would have further delayed Mr and Mrs W getting a 
formal answer to their questions.
Overall, therefore, I think Pepper has approached Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage fairly. Its 
offered £50 compensation for not replying to the October email sooner. I think thats fair. And 
I dont think it needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage 
Credit has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay 
Mr and Mrs W £50 compensation, if it hasnt done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman