DRN-2634228
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs M under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that she electronically signed in March 2019. There were some issues with the car 
and it was returned to the dealer for repairs but the issues continued. She complained to 
Blue Motor Finance about the issues with the car in November 2019 and the cars engine 
was rebuilt which dealt with those issues (and the dealer provided her with a courtesy car 
whilst the car was repaired). 
The car was returned to the dealer again in February 2020 because of a coolant issue but no 
fault was found. Mrs M then complained to this service because the car was mis-sold to her 
and shed been caused inconvenience.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He considered that the 
dealers repairs had been successful but that Mrs M had experienced inconvenience as a 
result of the faults with the car. He recommended that it should pay her £150 compensation 
for the trouble and inconvenience she was caused. He initially said that it should also refund 
her for the £99 admin fee that she paid but Blue Motor Finance said that the admin fee 
wasnt included in the finance agreement so it wasnt responsible for it. Our investigator was 
persuaded that the admin fee didnt form part of the credit agreement so he said that he 
wouldnt be asking Blue Motor Finance to refund that payment.
Blue Motor Finance has agreed to pay the £150 compensation to Mrs M but she says that 
she should also a receive of the admin fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mrs M was more than ten years old, had been driven for 
73,022 miles and had a price of £2,800.01;
its clear that there were some issues with the car and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her  but those 
issues were dealt with when the cars engine was rebuilt in November 2019 (when 
its mileage was recorded as 77,606);
the car was returned to the dealer in February 2020 because of a coolant issue but 
no fault was found and its mileage was recorded as 80,004  so Mrs M had been 
able to drive 2,400 miles in it since the engine was rebuilt; 
Im not persuaded that the car was mis-sold to Mrs M or that it would be fair or 
reasonable for her to now be able to reject the car;
I consider that the repairs to the car were a fair and reasonable response to the 
issues with it but Mrs M has been caused distress and inconvenience by those 
issues - I agree with our investigators recommendation that Blue Motor Finance 
should pay her £150 to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience  and it 
has agreed to do so;
the order form for the car shows that its basic price was £2,800.01 and that Mrs M 
also paid an admin fee of £98.99 so the total price was £2,899  she paid a £99 cash 
deposit and a final payment of £201 so the amount to be financed was £2,599;
the hire purchase agreement shows the cash price of the car as £2,899, a cash 
deposit of £300 and that the amount of credit provided to Mrs M was £2,599 (which 
she agreed to pay by 36 monthly payments of £92.12);
the admin fee was payable for services provided by the dealer  but Mrs M says that 
those services werent properly performed so she should receive a refund of the 
admin fee from Blue Motor Finance;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the cash deposit of £99 that Mrs M paid to 
the dealer was for the admin fee and Im not persuaded that the admin fee was 
included in the credit of £2,599 that was provided by Blue Motor Finance; and
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Blue Motor Finance to refund to Mrs M the admin fee that she paid.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay £150 to Mrs M to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused by the issues 
with the car. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund to Mrs M 
the admin fee that she paid, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I order Blue Motor Finance Limited to pay 
her £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman