DRN-3219348
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited settled a 
claim she made under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021 Miss Bs car was hit from behind while stationary by another vehicle and she 
made a claim to her insurer, Advantage. 
When she bought the policy, she told Advantage about a modification to the hand controls of 
the car to assist Miss B when driving. When Miss B made her claim she told Advantage 
about other modifications to her car which Advantage was previously unaware of. 
Advantage settled Miss Bs claim by paying a total loss sum  taking into account the 
modification it knew about when she bought the policy. But Miss B said this wasnt enough 
for her to be able to buy a similar replacement car, that it was rare to find a similar vehicle 
and she wanted Advantage to instead cover the repairs. She thought it was unfair of 
Advantage not to settle her claim taking into account all of the modifications  particularly as 
she said she wasnt at fault for the incident. She thought Advantage should recover the claim 
amount including all of the modifications from the at fault party. 
Miss B said Advantage had caused delay in providing a replacement vehicle while her car 
was considered for repair. She wanted Advantage to provide her with a suitable courtesy car 
until her car was repaired. 
In June 2021 Advantage said it had accepted the risk based on the modification Miss B gave 
when she bought the policy. And so it said it couldnt provide indemnity for more than that 
under the claim. It paid Miss B £30 compensation for a three day delay in providing a 
replacement vehicle. It had initially thought Miss Bs car was repairable  but had arranged 
for its collection without making provision for a replacement car. 
In June 2021 Miss B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found Advantage had 
considered Miss Bs misrepresentation of the modifications as careless  and that it had 
acted reasonably in line with the relevant legislation and terms of the policy. Miss B had only 
disclosed the hand controls modification which Advantage accepted. But if it had known 
about the other modifications, its underwriters wouldnt have offered Miss B a policy. This 
means that even though it classed the misrepresentation as careless, Advantage was 
entitled to avoid the policy and not meet Miss Bs claim. 
As Advantage accepted and settled Miss Bs claim based on the modifications shed told it 
about, the Investigator thought it had acted reasonably. And as the policy doesnt provide 
provision for a replacement vehicle where a car is a total loss, the Investigator thought the 
compensation Advantage paid was fair. 
Miss B didnt agree. In summary she says Advantage caused delays and mishandled her 
claim. She says she disclosed the modifications at renewal. She doesnt feel equal 
consideration has been given to the points shes raised. So Miss B wants an ombudsman to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that Miss B feels the focus has been on the misrepresentation which led to 
Advantages decision as to how it dealt with her claim. However, this service must take into 
account the relevant law, and what an insurers policy says as well as the points Miss B has 
raised in her complaint. Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I dont intend to 
uphold her complaint and Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage asked Miss B when she applied for the policy if her car had any modifications. Its 
provided a screenshot of a help box which provides further details of what it means by 
modifications. So I think it asked Miss B a clear question. 
Under the Statement of Fact issued to support the statements Miss B gave when she 
applied for the policy, this shows that Miss B answered yes to her car having modifications 
and the details of those modifications were hand controls. 
So I think Miss B was made aware from her policy documents of the modifications 
Advantage were aware of  and this gave her a further opportunity to contact Advantage to 
add any other modifications not listed within the cancellation period. 
Ive listened to the renewal call in November 2020. Miss B initially called to cancel the auto 
renewal of her policy for December 2020. But after being offered a price on the phone, Miss 
B decided to renew her policy. The agent asked Miss B; can you confirm if all the details 
under the policy are the same as before~ Miss B replied; I can, yes.
I think Miss B failed to take reasonable care to inform Advantage of all of the modifications to 
her car. So Im satisfied Miss Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless. Ive 
looked at the actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Where there has been a claim  and the insurer could have offered a policy even if it had 
known about the modifications  the best outcome for a customer is that the insurer should 
pay a proportionate amount of the claim. 
As Advantage has indemnified Miss B for the car with the modifications it was aware of when 
settling her claim, it has acted in line with CIDRA and has treated Miss B fairly. I understand 
Miss B feels Advantage should recover the full claim costs from the other party as she 
wasnt at fault for the incident. Advantage has told us the following on 22 October 2021:
..weve also agreed that instead of her having to pursue the cost for the adaptations 
to her vehicle as an uninsured loss (which has the potential to be a time consuming 
and lengthy process), we have agreed to reimburse her the cost of her adaptations 
upon proof. Miss B has not been able to provide receipts of these adaptations so 
we've confirmed that in this instance, we will accept an estimate from a garage that 
fits the adaptations as evidence of the likely cost. Although our recovery prospects for uninsured losses are slim (mostly due to them being uninsured and because there 
is no receipted evidence of the loss) we will attempt to recover these costs from the 
third-party insurer. The third-party insurer is only liable to pay us back insured losses 
so theres no guarantee we will be able to recover these costs. Technically, neither 
the vehicle nor the adaptations were insured. Whilst usually claims where were not 
able to recover our outlay are considered fault claims, weve agreed that regardless 
of the outcome of our recovery attempts, well record and consider the claim as a 
non-fault claim.
It isnt unreasonable for an insurer to look to recover up to the limit of the loss it has 
indemnified under the policy. So I think Advantages approach here is very fair. 
I think Advantage has fairly compensated Miss B for the inconvenience caused when it 
arranged for her car to be collected  initially for repair  but failed to provide a courtesy car. 
As Miss Bs car was declared a total loss, Miss Bs policy with Advantage doesnt provide for 
a replacement car in these circumstances. As at November 2021 Advantage had continued 
to provide Miss B with a replacement car. 
I understand Miss B believes she hasnt been treated fairly - but from the information Ive 
seen I think she has. I appreciate the difficulties Miss B faces in finding a replacement 
vehicle. But the costs to repair her car were more than the market value of it. And in these 
circumstances Advantage was entitled to settle the claim as a total loss. So taking 
everything into account, I dont think Advantage needs to do any more. I think it has acted 
reasonably, in line with CIDRA and the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman