DRN-4337298
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Toyota 
Insurance Services. He isnt happy that it cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F took out motor insurance with Toyota and it looked to contact him about his policy and 
to verify a few details a short while later. And as Mr F didnt reply it went on to cancel his 
insurance in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Unfortunately, Mr F only 
realised it wanted to speak to him after his policy had been cancelled so he complained to 
Toyota about the cancellation. 
Toyota looked into things for Mr F but didnt feel it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
tried to contact Mr F by a number of different methods (email, letter, and text) but as he 
didnt make contact or provide the detail it had requested it cancelled the policy. As Mr F 
remained unhappy he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mr F found himself in she didnt think Toyota had done 
anything wrong. 
As Mr F didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration here as he feels he just wasnt aware of Toyota 
Insurances attempts to contact him. It requested confirmation of some of his driving details 
and questioned why he hadnt told it about an incident he had been involved in. But Im 
satisfied it made reasonable attempts to contact him before it went on to cancel the policy so 
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I know Mr F has disputed whether the incident he was involved in with a third-party vehicle, 
which he reported to his previous insurer for information only purposes, needed to be 
disclosed as he wasnt making a claim. While I understand this he still needed to tell Toyota 
about this even if that was the case and as the claim was marked on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) by his previous insurer I cant say Toyota did anything wrong 
in asking about this. And it is clear Toyota Insurance wanted other documentation from him 
as well so he would have needed to contact Toyota in any event.
I accept that Mr F didnt get all of Toyotas communications as its emails had gone into his 
spam folder and he said there was a postal strike. However, I cant hold Toyota responsible 
for this and Mr F has explained that he did receive a text asking him to get in touch with 
Toyota, but he didnt believe it was real. But he could have called Toyota or gone on his 
online portal at that stage to confirm the position directly with Toyota and naturally this would 
have been a prompt to check his spam folder as well. 
Either way Im not sure what else Toyota could have done here as it communicated by three 
separate means (email, letter, and text). And it wanted to verify some of Mr Fs details and to 
understand about the previous incident Mr F had been involved in which it was entitled to do. 
Plus, its terms and conditions make it clear when it can cancel a policy and it has acted in 
line with this here in providing seven days notice of cancellation and looking to communicate 
the need for Mr F to make contact by various means. 
Given all of this I dont think Toyota have acted unreasonably here. Im sure it wasnt Mr Fs 
intention to not get in touch, but Toyota needed to verify a number of details with him. And 
as he didnt get in touch it cancelled his policy in line with the terms and conditions. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr F but Im not asking Toyota to take any further 
action here.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman