DRN-3423670
The complaint
Miss R has complained about her motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited in 
respect of how it handled her claim made after she was involved in a collision with a 
motorcyclist on a roundabout.
What happened
There was an accident on 9 April 2021 and Miss R reported it to Admiral the next day, she 
thought the other driver was at fault. On 11 April 2021 Miss R gave details to Admiral 
including that there were witnesses who saw what happened. In May Miss R spoke to 
Admiral  she was unhappy with the call. She felt comments she was alleged to have made 
had been taken as fact and was disappointed to learn the witnesses hadnt been contacted. 
In a final response dated 25 May 2021 Admiral accepted there had been delays to this point 
 particularly that it should have chased the witness statements within a week or so of the 
incident. It apologised and paid £175 compensation. 
The claim progressed with witness statements being received and reviewed. As a 
consequence of the witness statements, which were all in Miss Rs favour, including one 
from an off-duty traffic police officer, the other party to the claim asked to see details of 
damage to Miss Rs car. To that date it hadnt been taken to Admirals approve repairer for 
assessment or repair as Miss R had been unable to pay her excess. But, Admiral then 
decided to waive the excess and take the car in for assessment and repair. That happened 
in July 2021, with Miss R receiving a courtesy car for the period of repair. Her repaired car 
was returned to her and later, in November 2021, the other party made a without prejudice 
payment to Admiral for all Admirals costs. 
Miss R remained unhappy about the delays in the first three months of the claim. She said 
shed had to take a weeks holiday to deal with Admiral. She said she also had to move out 
of her home to go and stay with someone else in order to be able to get to work when she 
couldnt use her car, which had caused her various additional expenses. So she felt £175 
compensation wasnt enough and complained to us.
Our investigator felt that £175 compensation was fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience Admirals delays had caused. Miss R disagreed. She said this didnt in any 
way account for the financial loss shed suffered. Her complaint was passed to me for 
consideration and Miss R provided evidence of her financial loss.
I issued a provisional decision. The findings of which were:  
 
Miss R says she was spoken down to during a phone call, with details having been taken 
from her unsigned statement being used as fact by the advisor, who seemed biased against 
her witnesses. Admiral hasnt accepted any wrongdoing during this call. I can understand 
why some of the things discussed upset Miss R, but conversations like this are sometimes a 
natural part of progressing a claim. Where fault is disputed and details have been taken 
down by an insurers agent, there isnt anything unreasonable in the insurer discussing the 
same with the policyholder. An advisor, during a call like this, also may need to set 
expectations for the policyholder  not all witness testimony carries much weight. In advising 
Miss R to take her time in deciding about repairs, because she couldnt pay her excess, 
I think the advisor was trying to be helpful. I dont think Admiral failed Miss R during this call.  
Miss R also said that shed had to take a weeks leave to deal with Admiral. But when asked 
for details of the contact shed had with Admiral that week, she said that the only contact 
was the day she was interviewed. Miss R needed to be interviewed as part of the natural 
course of the claim. I dont think any failure of Admiral caused her to need to take this leave. 
But I do think Admiral let Miss R down in its more general handling of her claim. And, for this 
reason, I think it should pay some further compensation. Admiral, in my view, should have 
gathered the witness evidence earlier and, if it had, I think the claim would have moved to 
repair sooner. I say that because the witness evidence, particularly from the off-duty 
policeman, was persuasive and compelling. I think if Admiral had received this earlier, and 
knowing as it did from an early stage that Miss R was unable to afford her excess, it would 
always have looked to waive this. I say this given that the strength of the witness evidence 
meant it was always likely it would be able to recoup the excess from the other party. Of 
course it was never obliged to do that  Miss R, whether or not she accepted or disputed her 
fault in the accident, was always liable for paying this to Admiral in exchange for it 
progressing her claim. 
If Admiral had acted sooner though to take the action it eventually took in July  to repair the 
car whilst waiving the excess  that would, of course, have been much better for Miss R. In 
between the accident and the repair, I accept that Miss R had to chase Admiral and she was 
understandably frustrated to learn of the delay in obtaining witness statements. She was 
also led to believe shed have a chance to check and sign her statement before it was 
submitted to Admiral (by its agent which had taken it). But Miss R only had sight of this later. 
I can understand that was frustrating for her. Admiral has accepted it failed Miss R in these 
respects, and has paid £175 compensation for the upset caused. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in respect of the upset Admiral has accepted it caused. But I think it overlooks 
the fact that its delays caused Miss R to be without her car for about two months longer than 
she should have been. Setting aside the fact that Miss R was caused inconvenience 
because she couldnt use her car to get to work (see my comments below on this)  she was 
still without her car, which was insured for use for social domestic and pleasure purposes, 
for far too long. I think Admiral should pay her a further £125 compensation (making the total 
paid £300) for the distress and inconvenience Miss R was caused when its failures delayed 
the repair of her car by around two months.    
But Miss R has reported a financial loss also. That falls for consideration separately to 
compensation for distress and inconvenience (which is a non-financial loss). Miss R told us 
that from 12 April 2021 she had to move to stay with a friend who could take her to work as 
she couldnt drive her car. She said her friend lives further away from her work than she 
does and drives a less fuel-economic car. So it has been costing her more in fuel to get to 
work, and she had to agree with her friend to pay them £50 a week lodgings too, whilst 
maintaining her bills for her home. Miss R sent some bank statements in but explained she 
hasnt paid her friend yet. I note that when she complained to Admiral about the delays in an 
email dated 20 May 2021, she told it:
I require a car to attend my workplace and have had to seek alternative options to travel to 
and from work (none of which are reliable).
That doesnt seem quite the same as the detail Ive set out above about what Miss R told us. 
Im not sure why there is a difference. But, because Mis R hasnt paid her friend yet, there is 
no evidence to support her account that she started to live with them, therefore likely 
incurring costs, as early as 12 April 2021 and remained there until the claim progressed to her car being taken for repair (when she was afforded a courtesy car). So Im not persuaded 
Miss T has sufficiently established that she had a loss due to Admirals delays. 
However, and whilst I understand that Miss R was left in an unsatisfactory position due to 
Admirals delays, there is another reason why I cant reasonably require Admiral to pay 
Miss R for her reported financial loss. That is because, as referenced above, Miss R doesnt 
have cover on her policy for using her car to commute to work. Her cover, as noted on her 
policy schedule, is for social, domestic and pleasure only. I cant reasonably require 
Admiral to compensate her for a loss which, whilst flowing from its delay, arises from her act 
of using the car outside of the agreed policy terms. Admiral has been aware for some time 
that Miss R was using the car outside of the agreement and seemingly hasnt chosen to take 
action in this respect. I think thats a reasonable response from it and I dont intend to make 
it compensate Miss R for her reported financial loss.
Admiral did not respond to my findings. Miss R said she thought they were unfair and that 
I could have contacted her friends for further detail about what she owed them. She provided 
two documents labelled as Invoice; one for lodgings and one for transport. She said she 
had overlooked the need to select commuting on her policy, but that was in part Admirals 
fault as well. She said she feels she is being made out to be liar when actually Admiral had 
caused her a lot of problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss R is disappointed by my finings. That is regrettable. And I also 
understand that she feels I should have undertaken further enquiries with her friends.
Taking the last point first, Im sorry Miss R expected us to gather evidence for her. But it is 
up to her to present evidence for us to consider. And I have taken the invoices into account. 
But, as I said provisionally, any evidence about her costs incurred could only likely have a 
limited impact on my findings because of the type of use shed insured her car for. 
In respect of the type of use Miss R was insured for, I dont doubt that her policy not 
including use of the car for commuting was a mistake. And I know she wasnt using the car 
to commute at the time of the accident. But her financial loss that she asked this service to 
make Admiral pay, was in respect of costs shed reported incurring, in order to get to work, 
when she didnt have her car due to Admirals delays. When I award compensation I do so if 
a foreseeable loss occurred due to an insurers failures. I cant reasonably say Admiral could 
have foreseen its delay might prevent Miss R getting to work because their agreement for 
insurance didnt extend to the car being used for commuting. 
Whilst Ive considered Miss Rs objection to my provisional findings, along with the invoices 
she sent, her comments and evidence havent changed my view. My provisional findings are 
now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Miss R a further £125 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Making the total compensation £300 (as £175 has been paid already).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman