DRN-3297682
The complaint
Mr N and Ms E have complained about how theyve been treated by Kuflink Ltd since the 
terms of their two bridging loans ended in January and February 2020 respectively. They 
said theyve never missed a single payment but were then issued with a formal demand in 
July 2020 without any prior warning or discussion. They said a deadline of 31 August 2020 
was given which led to them accepting a very low offer from a cash buyer to buy one of the 
properties the loans were secured on in order to meet that deadline. Theyre also unhappy 
about the default charges that were applied to the accounts.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
The starting point here is the contracts that Mr N and Ms E entered into. Those contracts 
were that Mr N and Ms E would repay the debts (plus interest and charges) within 
12 months of the loans being drawn down. The first loan was drawn down on 20 January 
2019 and the second loan on 7 February 2019, so the loans should have been repaid in 
January and February 2020 respectively. Their exit strategy was the sale of their buy-to-
let property which the loans were secured against.
Whilst Mr N and Ms E have talked about Covid and lockdowns causing issues with the 
sale, the property should have been sold before then, by 7 February 2020 at the latest. I 
can see the property had been on and off the market since June 2017 but remained 
unsold, and sales had fallen through within the 12 month loan terms, so this isnt a case 
of a rushed sale.
I feel I should also correct some things Mr N and Ms E have said We should like to 
confirm that we have never missed a single payment and have paid on time and I 
have not defaulted in the true sense. Mr N and Ms E have missed payments on these 
loans  the most important payments, and those are the ones to fully repay the money 
they borrowed by the contractual end dates in January and February 2020 respectively. 
The moment they didnt do so they had defaulted, in every sense.
On 15 July 2020 Mr N told Kuflink that there was an offer of £600,000 on the table and 
that he was in the process of seeking proof of funds from the purchaser. Hed said due to
increased interest he would like a further week to allow for further offers to come forward,
and it was agreed hed set out his plans to exit the loans by 27 July 2020.
Mr N emailed Kuflink on 24 July 2020 and said hed received offers in the range of 
£550,000 to £600,000 in the last fortnight. He said In the event the property is not sold by 
end of the week 7 August, upon our return, the property will be put through the auction in 
August. I am currently looking at the best auction house to do this for me as Savills 
Auctions acted for us previously.
As the property remained unsold Kuflink told Mr N and Ms E on 13 August 2020 I do 
need to confirm that you will need to have a contracted sale in place, either via Private 
Treaty or Auction by 31/08/2020 or we will commence recovery action.
Mr N and Ms E say the pressure of that email led them to accept an offer of £600,000 as 
an alternative offer theyd received of £675,000 wouldnt complete by that date. I 
understand the sale at the lower amount completed on 1 September (as 31 August was a 
bank holiday).
But the email doesnt say the sale had to complete by 31 August, it said a contracted sale 
needed to be in place by then; thats a very different thing. Kuflink has said that it gave 
that date to Mr N and Ms E because theyd said they had progressable offers, and it was 
concerned that every month Mr N and Ms E allowed things to continue the debt was just 
increasing. That seems reasonable as there could always be a higher offer just around 
the corner, at some point a line needs to be drawn and a reasonable and progressable 
offer accepted and the property sold. Again, this needs to be put in the context of two 
short term loans that were already a long way overdue to be repaid, and where Mr N and 
Ms E had already said the sale proceeds were unlikely to repay the two loans in full (with 
the remainder of the debt secured against their residential property, which would then put 
that at risk).
Mr N has recently sent us proof he received the offer of £675,000 at lunchtime on 27 
August which would beg the question why he didnt immediately notify Kuflink and ask for 
its advice on whether he could proceed with that, bearing in mind hes told us that was a 
cash buyer and could have completed by 4 September (just three days after the lower 
offer completed).
Instead he sent an email to Kuflink at 3.57pm on Friday 28 August saying theyd accepted
the offer of £600,000 and had to turn down an offer of £675,000. Unfortunately an email 
at that time on the Friday afternoon when the loans were then repaid the next working 
day didnt give Kuflink a chance to discuss the potential of the higher offer with Mr N and 
Ms E.
Instead his solicitors just completed the sale and sent the proceeds to Kuflink. In addition, 
as has been shown by the amount of sales that had already fallen through on this 
property, an offer to buy a property at a certain amount doesnt mean a sale would 
complete.
I cant comment on what Kuflink would have said if Mr N and Ms E had notified it of the 
higher offer and how soon that could complete on 27 August as they didnt give it the 
opportunity to consider that option.
It seems Mr N and Ms E have conflated the FCAs guidance about payment deferrals with 
the fact their bridging loans were overdue in terms of the final payments. I can see that 
Kuflink were considering a further monthly payment deferral for Mr N and Ms E, but that 
would just be a reprieve from needing to make the monthly payments, it wouldnt be a 
reprieve from the fact they were already overdue in repaying the full debts. So even if 
Kuflink had agreed that Mr N and Ms E didnt need to make the monthly payments for 
three months, it doesnt follow that it would also have agreed to stay any further action if 
Mr N and Ms E didnt repay the outstanding debts for the same time period. It may have 
agreed that, but again Mr N and Ms E didnt give it the chance to decide.
Mr N and Ms E didnt request the second payment deferral period (and they did have to 
be requested, they wouldnt happen automatically) until 18 August and unfortunately, due 
to staffing shortages, Kuflink were still considering the request when Mr N and Ms E 
repaid the loans. I can see why Kuflink had concerns about the further request as Mr N 
and Ms E had already said the sale proceeds were unlikely to be enough to repay the loans, so if a further payment deferral was granted then the debt would only increase 
more which would cause Mr N and Ms E more problems; those were valid concerns.
I understand Mr N and Ms E feel the redemption amounts were inflated due to the default 
charges and interest. Ive reviewed the facility agreements which set out the contracts 
they entered into and the transaction histories of the accounts. Having done so I cant see 
Kuflink has charged any amounts it wasnt allowed to under those contracts. I understand 
Mr N and Ms E were struggling to sell the property, but it had been on and off the market 
for many years and Kuflink had already agreed to some changes and to waive some 
charges to try to help. Kuflink allowed Mr N and Ms E more time when they hadnt 
redeemed the loans by January and February 2020 as theyd originally agreed to, it would 
be highly inequitable for me to say Kuflink then couldnt fairly charge the default amounts 
set out within those contracts.
Kuflink had the right to demand Mr N and Ms E repay all the money owed, and so it didnt 
act inappropriately when it didnt accept the short payment Mr N and Ms E tried to make 
to the shortfall after completion. Whilst Mr N and Ms E said that was in full and final 
settlement, they made the payment by bank transfer so Kuflink didnt have the choice of 
whether to accept it or not. Once Kuflink had the payment it didnt have to refund it when 
it said it wouldnt accept it in full and final settlement as at that point Mr N and Ms E still 
owed it over £35,000 (there was a shortfall on sale of over £75,000). Kuflink was allowed 
to put a final deadline for the remaining amount being repaid before it passed matters to a 
third party to look at the recovery options available, so again it did nothing wrong there.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr N and Ms E found themselves in, and I 
wish them well for the future. But I have to consider the wider circumstances here, and I 
can see that Kuflink gave a fair amount of forbearance and assistance to Mr N and Ms E, 
but at some point a line needed to be drawn and the property sold.
Having considered everything, I simply cant uphold Mr N and Ms Es complaint however
much they may want me to.
Kuflink accepted my provisional findings. Mr N and Ms E didnt agree and made some 
further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr N and Ms E for their submissions, as it is clear things havent been easy for them. 
Whilst Ive read their response in full, I wont be responding in as much detail as much of 
what theyve said I already considered when reaching my provisional findings.
I think, having read Mr N and Ms Es submissions, that they may have misunderstood the 
FCAs Covid payment deferral scheme. As even if Kuflink had put a further three-month 
payment deferral in place on 18 August (which was the first date they asked for it) then the 
default interest would still have been charged. The only difference would have been that the 
interest would have been added to the debt, rather than Mr N and Ms E paying it each month 
when their payments were due. And having reviewed the emails and the transaction history I 
can see Kuflink agreed to allow Mr N and Ms E to miss the payment due on 20 August, and 
no further payments were made before the loans were redeemed. So Mr N and Ms E havent 
lost out due to the delay in Kuflink agreeing to the Covid payment deferral as their account 
was in exactly the same position it would have been in had that agreement been given.As I explained in my provisional findings, the agreement (or not) of a further three-month 
payment deferral period would have had no bearing on the fact Kuflink had said it wanted a 
contracted sale in place by 31 August. Just because it was willing to allow the interest to 
roll-up until the loans were repaid (rather than Mr N and Ms E make monthly payments) 
doesnt mean it would also have been willing to grant them a further three months to repay 
the debt. The two things are very different matters. Even if Kuflink had agreed a further 
three-month payment deferral on 20 August, it still wanted a contracted sale to be in place 
by 31 August.
Mr N and Ms E have said that Kuflink didnt reply to their emails and phone calls, but again 
that relates to the Covid payment deferral scheme, not the offer of £675,000. I havent seen 
any evidence to show that Mr N and Ms E called and emailed Kuflink about the £675,000 
offer and received no response, as none of the emails (before the one on 28 August that I 
referenced in my provisional findings) mention that offer. In fact, they couldnt have done so 
before 27 August as the evidence Mr N and Ms E have provided shows the offer wasnt 
made until that afternoon.
It was in Kuflinks interests that the property sold for as much as possible, as that would 
lessen the chance of it not receiving all its money back. If Mr N and Ms E had told Kuflink 
about the offer when they received it, giving Kuflink time to agree to that, then Ive no reason 
to believe that approval wouldnt have been forthcoming. Instead Mr N and Ms E sent an 
email the day after receiving the offer, just before Kuflink would be closing for the bank 
holiday weekend so it had no time to review and consider what Mr N and Ms E had said, 
before the property sale completed the next working day.
I cant see that Mr N and Ms E contacted Kuflink to clarify whether the deadline of 31 August 
was for the sale to complete, or just for a sale to be agreed, and I think it is clear from the 
email that Kuflink only required a contracted sale to be in place by that date (not for the sale 
to have completed).
Mr N and Ms E have said that they didnt ask for the original payment deferral. Theyve also 
said that Kuflink didnt notify them that the three months were coming to an end and tell them 
they would need to seek further approval for any extension to the payment deferral period.
Ive considered the email trail very carefully. I can see that Mr N emailed Kuflink on 
20 March. He said he had just about managed to make the payment due that day, and 
Please let me know if Kuflink is going to put my account on hold until the issue of the virus 
is resolved Kuflink replied to Mr Ns email with a proposal but didnt receive a response. It 
sent a further email to Mr N on 1 April in which it said that as hed not replied it assumed he 
no longer wanted a formal amendment of the loan. And Given the current Covid-19 situation 
I will therefore assume that you require a 3 months payment holiday
As there was no reply Kuflink sent a further email on 6 April to say that it had put the 
payment holiday into effect from 1 March until 31 May. Mr N replied the following day but 
didnt say he didnt want the payment deferral period  had he done so then Kuflink would 
have removed it from the account and Mr N and Ms E would have instead needed to make 
the monthly payments. As that three-month payment deferral was put in place to assist Mr N 
and Ms E, and seemed to have been in their best interests at the time, then I cant hold 
Kuflink liable for proactively offering that following Mr Ns request to put his account on hold 
due to Covid (even though that wasnt something it was obliged to do).
On 18 May Kuflink confirmed the payment deferral period covered the June payments 
because Mr N and Ms E had already made their March payment before it was put in place, 
so the next payments would be due in July. In error, Kuflink contacted Mr N in June to say his payments were overdue for that month, but when he questioned it Kuflink confirmed the 
mistake and said payments werent due to resume until July.
At no point in any of this correspondence can I see that Kuflink told Mr N and Ms E that they 
wouldnt need to apply for a further payment deferral (if they wanted one) and that it would 
be an automatic process. Nor can I see that Mr N and Ms E requested any further payment 
deferral period. The request for a second payment deferral period wasnt made until 
18 August, and there was no requirement for Kuflink to either proactively offer it or to put one 
in place without being asked.
As I explained above, even if a second payment deferral period had been granted then Mr N 
and Ms E would have been in broadly the same overall position. Ill explain. If a second 
payment deferral had been put in place to run from when the first ended (so to cover July 
and Augusts payments) Mr N and Ms E wouldnt have needed to pay £4,160 in July and 
£1,160 in August. But those payments wouldnt have just been waived. Instead they would 
have been added to the mortgage debt, so when Mr N and Ms E repaid the debt in 
September they would have had to pay £5,320 more than they actually did, to cover those 
payments that had been deferred. All in all this means Mr N and Ms E werent 
disadvantaged by not having a second payment holiday, as either way that money would 
have been needed to have been paid. Either way Kuflink would still have charged Mr N and 
Ms E the higher default interest, as their loan was in default  a further payment deferral 
period wouldnt have changed that.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that Kuflink imposed a completion 
deadline of 31 August on Mr N and Ms Es sale. Everything Ive seen just points to Kuflink 
saying a contracted sale must be in place by then (with no mention of when that contracted 
sale had to complete by). Ive no reason to believe that if Mr N and Ms E had told Kuflink 
about the £675,000 offer and asked for its agreement to proceed with that offer, on the 
understanding it would complete by 4 September, then Kuflink wouldnt have agreed to that. 
As I said, it was in Kuflinks interests for Mr N and Ms E to achieve the highest sale price 
they could, and if waiting three days meant that would increase by £75,000 I see no reason 
to believe it wouldnt have agreed to that.
Having considered Mr N and Ms Es response to my provisional decision, and having 
considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr N and Ms E to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman