DRN-3200515
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the sale of a commercial and residential landlord insurance 
policy arranged by Momentum Broker Solutions Limited.
What happened
In November 2017, Momentum arranged landlord insurance cover for several 
properties owned by Mrs J with an insurer (that Ill call Insurer X). A year later, the 
cover renewed.
A fire then took place in one of the properties (that Ill call Property A). Mrs J made a 
claim to Insurer X. The claim was turned down by Insurer X, and it voided the policy due 
to misrepresentation (and returned the premiums to Mrs J). It said that when Momentum 
had taken out the policy (and again at renewal), it hadnt told it that the tenant living in 
Property A received financial support from the council, or that the tenant was unemployed 
and in receipt of benefits.
Mrs J made a complaint to Momentum, as she thought it hadnt given Insurer X the 
correct information about her tenant.
Momentum said that it had told Insurer X the occupant type was private rental and didnt 
think it had misrepresented any information. It pointed out that the tenant for Property A 
had a tenancy agreement with Mrs J, and so it thought that meant a private rental was in 
place. Unhappy with Momentums response, Mrs J asked this service to look into the 
matter.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Momentum ought to 
have been aware of the tenancy type for Property A, and told the insurer that information. 
She recommended Momentum ask Insurer X what they wouldve done if the correct 
tenancy type been declared, and then cover the cost of the claim if thats what Insurer X 
wouldve done.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2021. Heres what I said:
Mrs J had a management company that managed all of her rental properties. They found 
the tenants and collected the rent, and then paid the rent to Mrs J. So Mrs J wasnt aware 
which tenants were in receipt of state benefits, or which tenants had their rent paid by the 
council. She also wasnt aware of the employment status of any of her tenants. All of that 
information was held by the management company.
Momentum had carried out a fact-finding exercise with the management company in 
2015, and was aware that some of Mrs Js tenants received benefits.
As I understand it, Property A was added to a previous policy held in 2016 with another 
insurer, and it was untenanted at the time. Then when the tenant moved into Property A 
later in 2016, Momentum made the previous insurer aware that the tenant type was 
professional/income support. The majority of the tenants rent was paid by the local 
council, with the tenant making up the remainder. The tenant was unemployed and in 
receipt of state benefits. There was a tenancy agreement in place between Mrs J and the 
tenant.
Then in November 2017, Momentum obtained a new quote with Insurer X. It did so via a 
software platform used by a number of insurance intermediaries to obtain quotes from 
several insurers. Momentum was asked the occupation type. There were several options 
available, including council support and private rental. Momentum selected private 
rental. Insurer X accepted the application and the cover went into force.
When the policy renewed a year later, Momentum arranged the renewal through the 
same software platform. On that occasion, there were some further options available. 
Council support and private rental were still available. Though there was also the 
option to select unemployed or unemployed with benefits. Momentum again selected 
private rental, and the renewal was allowed.
Insurer X says that Momentum ought to have made it aware that the tenant was having 
their rent paid by the council, and that they were unemployed and in receipt of state 
benefits. Insurer X says that if it had known this information, it wouldnt have offered Mrs J 
the policy in 2017, or in 2018.
Momentum argues that it could only provide one response to the occupant type, 
even if more than one option applied. Momentum says that because there was a 
tenancy agreement in place between Mrs J and her tenant, then it was correct to 
select private rental.
Momentums representative has provided this service with a document from Insurer X 
which gives guidance on the occupant types. Though this document didnt exist when Mrs 
Js policy was taken out and renewed (and doesnt include the occupant types that are 
relevant in Mrs Js case), so I havent taken it into account.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Momentum to say that a private rental agreement was 
in place, given that a tenancy agreement existed between Mrs J and her tenant, rather 
than any third party (such as the council). However, the important point here is that 
because this was a commercial policy, the relevant law that applies is the Insurance Act 
2015. That meant Mrs J (or Momentum on her behalf), was required to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to Insurer X when taking out the policy, or at renewal.
In other words, Momentum needed to tell Insurer X everything they knew, or ought to 
have known, that would influence it in deciding whether to accept the risk. Alternatively, 
Momentum needed to give Insurer X enough information to put it on notice that it 
needed to make further enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
Momentum has expressed concerns about the software platform, and that it wasnt clear 
to it that Insurer X wanted to know about all possible options. However, that would only be 
relevant if the law that applied here was the law that affects misrepresentation in 
consumer contracts (which takes into account how clear and specific the questions asked 
were). But thats not the case here.
The point for me to therefore consider is whether Momentum failed to disclose 
material circumstances which it knew, or ought to have known.
When the policy was taken out in 2017, Momentum either knew, or ought to have known 
from its discussions with Mrs Js managing agent, that the tenant was having some of 
their rent paid by the local council.In applying for the policy, Momentum was aware that one of the available options included 
council support. Im therefore satisfied it should have known this information was 
material, and therefore ought to have been disclosed to Insurer X. Whilst I appreciate it 
could only select one option on the software platform, it couldve contacted Insurer X 
directly about this, but didnt do so. The same could be said to apply at renewal, because 
at that time, the options also included whether the tenant was unemployed, or 
unemployed on benefits.
Consequently, I think Momentum failed in its duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to Insurer X on Mrs Js behalf.
Momentum explains that there was an arrangement in place between it and Insurer X, 
whereby Insurer X was aware that some of the landlord policies that Momentum 
arranged had tenants that were in receipt of state benefits. Momentums representative 
says that it was agreed between the two parties that Momentum would select private 
rental as the occupant type for those tenants, as there would still be a tenancy 
agreement in place between the tenant and the landlord.
Ive looked carefully at the information provided to this service in respect of the 
arrangement between Momentum and Insurer X. Having done so, this doesnt show that 
there was an agreement between the parties that Momentum would select the occupation 
type as private rental and not tell Insurer X about other material circumstances.
Momentum has also raised concerns about Insurer Xs explanation that it wouldnt have 
offered cover to Mrs J, had it known that her tenants rent was being paid by the council, 
or that the tenant was unemployed and in receipt of benefits.
Id like to reassure Momentum that before making a provisional decision on this matter, I 
obtained further information from Insurer X. Having done so, Im satisfied Insurer X has 
shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy to Mrs J in 2017, or at renewal in 2018, 
had it known the relevant information.
As a result of Momentums failure in its duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, Mrs J 
has experienced a financial loss. I say that because if Momentum had given Insurer X the 
material information, then Insurer X would have refused to offer cover. Mrs J would have 
likely either renewed with her previous insurer, or obtained cover with another insurer. 
Which means that when the fire broke out, she would have had insurance cover in place. 
Consequently, that means Mrs J has been prejudiced by Momentums actions.
Mrs J hasnt been able to have all the repairs completed on the property (though I 
understand shes paid for some), and so hasnt been able to rent out the property since 
the incident.
My understanding is that Insurer Xs reserve on the claim was £39,000. Given the amount 
involved in arranging the repairs, I dont think itd be appropriate for Momentum to try and 
estimate how much an insurer wouldve paid. Instead, I intend to require the parties to 
choose and instruct a loss adjuster to assess how much Insurer X wouldve paid under 
the claim had the policy not been voided, and then pay compensation to Mrs J equivalent 
to that amount.
Although I appreciate Mrs J wouldnt have taken out cover with Insurer X had the material 
information been declared by Momentum at the outset - for the purposes of establishing 
how much should be paid in compensation, it seems reasonable to base this on Insurer Xs policy terms.
As an alternative to the above, if both parties are willing to settle the matter at a figure of 
£39,000, then they should let me know in response to this provisional decision.
I also intend to require Momentum to pay Mrs J £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of the matter.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I reached a final decision.
Mrs J responded to say she accepted my provisional decision, and would be willing to 
accept £39,000 settlement in order to put the matter behind her. She said that if 
Momentum were not agreeable to that, then she explained which costs she would like the 
loss adjuster to take into account. Mrs J also explained that shes in the process of selling 
the property so that she can recoup the money she had to spend on the repairs, and that 
she would have kept the property under different circumstances. Finally, Mrs J said she 
hasnt received the premiums that Insurer X say they returned to Momentum. 
Momentums representative responded with the following main points:
It doesnt accept my provisional decision. It thinks the only fair outcome should be 
for Insurer X to provide a full indemnity to Mrs J. It maintains that Insurer X has 
wrongly declined cover for the claim.
It says that even if I consider that Insurer Xs decision to void the policy was 
correct, it isnt responsible for incorrect details being provided to Insurer X.
As there was a tenancy agreement between Mrs J and the tenant, this guided 
Momentums decision to select private rental. It thinks Insurer X had the 
opportunity upon receipt of this to make further enquiries, but it didnt do so.
It says it can only be aware of what might constitute material information to an 
insurer, if the insurer informs it of this.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Momentums representative has repeated previous arguments that it considers Insurer X to 
be at fault. It says Insurer X has underwritten similar risks where the tenant was in receipt of 
state benefits and/or was unemployed, and has provided evidence of that from March 2017. 
Momentum has also provided a document that it says was a Scheme Outline between 
Insurer X and Momentum, which it thinks shows that Insurer X was willing to cover non-
standard business.
As I said in my provisional decision, I obtained further information from Insurer X to establish 
whether it would have offered cover to Mrs J, had it known the relevant information. We cant 
share that information with Momentum, as it relates to a separate complaint that Mrs J has 
against Insurer X. 
Though based on the information provided to me by Insurer X, I was satisfied that Insurer X 
wouldnt have offered the policy to Mrs J, even if it was sometimes willing to underwrite risks where a tenant was in receipt of benefits under a different product.
Ive looked at the Scheme Outline that Momentum has provided. This document isnt dated, 
and isnt signed by Insurer X. The document has a section called Underwriting Approach. 
Under this section, theres a heading Property Owners. It mentions how student lets will be 
declined (presumably on another software platform) but can be written in branch. It then 
says Overall, [Insurer X] will accommodate existing non-standard business and maintain 
this approach in similar proportions as the current book.
Whilst Momentum has provided evidence to show that Insurer X was willing to underwrite 
some risks where a tenant was in receipt of state benefits in March 2017, Insurer X has 
pointed out that this wasnt under Mrs Js book of business and also predated the rollover of 
this book of business to Insurer X. 
Even assuming that the Scheme Outline document was an agreement between Momentum 
and Insurer X and related to the book of business which included Mrs Js policy, Momentum 
hasnt shown that Insurer X was willing to offer new cover under that book of business where 
a tenant was receiving council support or was unemployed. Insurer X maintains that it 
wouldnt have done so. 
Momentum says that when it selected private rental on the software platform, then Insurer Z 
had the opportunity to make further enquiries, but didnt do so. 
The Insurance Act 2015 requires Momentum to tell Insurer X everything it knew, or ought to 
have known that would influence Insurer X in deciding whether to accept the risk. Or, 
Momentum needed to give Insurer X enough information to put it on notice that it needed to 
make further enquiries. 
Im not persuaded that by selecting private rental, this put Insurer X on notice that it needed 
to make further enquiries about the occupant type. I therefore remain satisfied that 
Momentum failed to make a fair presentation of the risk, as it didnt tell Insurer X material 
information that it knew or ought to have known.
Momentum says it can only be aware of what might constitute material information if the 
insurer informs it of this.
The Insurance Act 2015 explains that a circumstance or representation is material if it would 
influence the judgement of a prudent insurer in determining to take the risk. It then gives 
examples of what might be considered material circumstances, which includes special or 
unusual facts relating to the risk, or anything which those concerned with the class of 
insurance and field of activity in question would generally understand as being something 
that should be dealt with in a fair presentation of risks of the type in question.
The insurer therefore isnt required to specifically tell the applicant (or the broker on their 
behalf) what is considered material information. Though in any event, given that Insurer X 
(via the software platform) asked for the occupant type, and one option was council support 
(then in the 2018 renewal, another option was unemployment), I think its apparent that 
Insurer X considered this to be material information. Im also satisfied that those concerned 
with this class of insurance would generally understand occupant type as being something 
that should be dealt with in a fair presentation of risks.
Overall, I remain satisfied that Momentum failed in its duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk, and that Mrs J has incurred a financial loss as a result.
Momentum hasnt said whether it would be willing to offer Mrs J a settlement of £39,000, though Mrs J has confirmed she would accept this. I will therefore leave this up to the parties 
to decide.
Mrs J explains that shes in the process of selling the property, in order to get back the funds 
that she spent on the repairs. If the parties choose not to settle for £39,000 and instead 
require a loss adjuster to be involved, then that loss adjuster would need to decide on the 
appropriate settlement based on the information that Mrs J can provide regarding the 
damage. 
Mrs J has mentioned some costs that she would like the loss adjuster to take into account. 
Though as I said in my provisional decision, the loss adjuster would work out a settlement 
based on Insurer Xs policy terms. 
Mrs J says that Insurer X returned the premiums to Momentum, and Momentum hasnt 
passed them on to her. If thats the case, then Momentum wont be able to deduct that 
amount from the settlement. Ive taken that into account in my award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Momentum Broker Solutions 
Limited to do the following:
Pay for a loss adjuster (jointly chosen by it and Mrs J) to assess how much 
Insurer X wouldve likely paid for the claim had the policy not been voided. This 
would take into account policy limits, and the policy excess.
Pay compensation equivalent to that amount to Mrs J. If the premiums were 
returned to Mrs J when the policy was voided, then it can deduct this amount 
from the settlement. Though if Momentum received the returned premiums 
from Insurer X and didnt return them to Mrs J, it cant make a deduction from 
the settlement for this.
As Mrs J has paid for some repairs herself, it should pay interest on those (so 
long as those expenses wouldve been covered by the claim) at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date the invoice/s were paid to the date of 
settlement*.
As an alternative to the above, both parties can settle for £39,000 if they wish.
Pay Mrs J £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced as a result of the situation.
*If Momentum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman