DRN-3813178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA paid only part of their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs M  have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. In December 2021, Mrs M booked accommodation in the UK for ten adults for a 
trip for 25 March 2022 to 28 March 2022. The trip was to celebrate Mr Ms birthday.
On 24 March 2022, Mrs M took a test for Covid-19 and on 25 March 2022 she was 
informed that the test result was positive. Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip. The 
accommodation provider wouldnt refund the accommodation costs. Mr and Mrs M made 
a claim against their travel insurance policy. 
AWP paid only a portion of their claim. It said that the policy covers the costs of the 
account holder, their partner, and dependent children, as they are the insured individuals 
on the policy, irrespective of the amount they paid for the accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they paid for the accommodation and others were invited to join 
them at no expense. They want AWP to settle their claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that shed proceeded 
on the basis of information received from Mr and Mrs M as she hadnt received 
information from AWP. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs M had shown that they 
paid the accommodation costs, so its reasonable for AWP to settle their claim in full and 
pay interest on the outstanding amount. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed with the investigator. We didnt receive a response from AWP. As 
there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
AWP provided this service with information in a form we couldnt access. We asked 
AWP to resend the information, but it didnt respond. Ive proceeded on the basis of the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Section 1  Cancellation or curtailment
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000 [] for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses, due to any of the 
following necessary and unavoidable events:
Cancellation of the trip []
Insured person/You/Your
The holder(s) of the account and their family. Cover can be extended to include an extra 
person travelling with the account holder and/or their partner, when the upgrade has been 
paid to include them on the policy.
Family
The account holder, their partner (both aged 79 or under) and dependent children.
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding                      
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that AWP treated them fairly or reasonably 
in its handling of their claim. I say that because:   
Its not in dispute that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms trip was an insured event 
under the policy. The matter for me to decide is whether AWP acted fairly and 
reasonably in paying only part of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
The benefits of the policy apply only to Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs Ms family 
members who they hoped would join them on the trip are not insured under the 
policy. 
Mrs M booked the accommodation and Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs M paid 
for it. Mr and Mrs M have also provided copies of messages from Mrs M to the 
family group inviting guests and saying that she would bear the cost of the 
accommodation. So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M paid for the accommodation 
and didnt seek a contribution from their guests. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs M paid for irrecoverable unused 
accommodation costs which are recoverable under the policy. Theres no basis on 
which AWP can fairly and reasonably pay only a proportion of Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim.
Putting things right
In order to put things right AWP should pay the remainder of Mr and Mrs Ms claim, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions. As Mr and Mrs M have been kept out of the use 
of money due to them, AWP should also pay interest on the additional sum they now pay at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date Mr and Mrs M made their claim, to the 
date it makes the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take 
the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman