DRN-3476462
The complaint
Mr C complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with his pre-authorisation claims 
under his private medical insurance and about its decision not to approve all the claims.
What happened
Mr C has had international private medical insurance with BUPA for many years. He lives 
abroad but has his medical check-ups in the UK.
On the 24 August 2021 Mr C sent BUPA a request for pre-authorisation for the following:
Consultant Cardiologist review
Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan requested by his consultant cardiologist 
Pathology test 
Consultant Haematologist review.
BUPA didnt immediately approve the requests and asked for more information. Mr C was in 
constant contact with BUPA and on 29 August 2021 it told him it pre-authorised the 
pathology test, but Mr C didnt receive the formal approval. BUPA told him it hadnt approved 
the scan as it believed the previous scan excluded coronary artery disease so the scan was 
no longer required. Mr C sent BUPA an email from his cardiologists secretary with some 
information about his condition. But on 2 September 2021 BUPA said it needed specific 
information, which it detailed, about why the scan was necessary. On 1 September 2021 
BUPA had authorised the cardiologist consultation and haematologist consultation.
Mr C complained to BUPA about its handling of his pre-authorisation claims and that it hadnt 
approved the scan. 
BUPA accepted it incorrectly told Mr C it had sent him the pathology test pre-authorisation 
and hadnt promptly addressed his points about the cardiology and haematology pre-
authorisation. It paid him £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service. 
But BUPA considered it had correctly declined the pre-authorisation claim for the scan on 
the information it had. It said it wasnt questioning Mr Cs consultants opinion but for it to 
pre-authorise treatment the claim needed to be eligible under the policy. It hadnt received 
the medical report outlining the clinical need for the scan, as it had asked for. If Mr Cs 
cardiologist could provide the information it would reassess the claim. 
Mr C complains that when he asked for pre-authorisation BUPA put up obstacles and asked 
questions which only a health professional could answer. He thought it was wrong for 
BUPAs health specialists to decide what to authorise and what to decline instead of 
accepting his consultants recommendation. He said BUPA hadnt properly responded to his 
concerns and the amount of compensation it offered wasnt enough for the impact of its 
actions. He said his true financial loss was his flight costs to the UK and accommodation 
costs as he ended up returning to where he lived without the scan being done and BUPA 
had put his health at risk by not authorising the scan.
Our investigator said BUPA had acted fairly.
Mr C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he believes his policy 
wording said the scan was covered if recommended by his consultant, his consultant had 
recommended the scan so BUPAs decision was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs made several points about his disappointment with how his policy works. Our 
investigator explained to Mr C the areas were able to consider and we dont have the power 
to tell an insurer how it should run its business. So I wont address all the points Mr Cs 
made, Ill focus on his main concerns about how BUPA handled the claim and it not pre-
authorising his claim for the scan.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. BUPA accepts there were issues with how it 
dealt with the pre-authorisation claims but I think its offer of £200 compensation for Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience due to the issues was fair. I also think it reasonably declined the 
pre-authorisation claim for the scan on the information it had. Ill explain why.
The policy details that some, but not all, treatment needs to be pre-authorised and BUPA 
encourages pre-authorisation claims for all conditions. I understand why Mr C prefers to 
seek pre-authorisation before taking treatment.
The policy also sets out that BUPA can ask for more information to support a claim before 
providing the pre-authorisation. So BUPA acted within the policy terms when it asked for  
more information as part of its assessment of the claim.
Mr Cs referred to the benefit table in the policy document which says BUPA will pay in full 
for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and positron emission 
tomography (PET) when recommended by your consultant or family doctor. 
Mr Cs point is that his consultant had recommended the scan and Ive seen the consultants  
referral letter of August 2021 which says Mr C needs to have a repeat nuclear myocardial 
perfusion scan (or exact equivalent).
But for the scan to be covered by the policy it needs to be covered by the policy terms and  
the recommendation by the consultant alone doesnt mean BUPA has to automatically pre-
authorise the claim. Thats because the policy sets out what it covers:
Treatment that we cover
For us to cover any treatment that you receive, it must satisfy all of the following 
requirements:
it is at least consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice 
in the country in which treatment is being received
it is clinically appropriate in terms of type, duration, location and frequency, 
and
it is covered under the terms and conditions of the plan.The policy also says the treatment must be medically necessary, which the policy defines 
as:
treatment, medical service or prescribed drugs/medication which is:
(a) consistent with the diagnosis and medical treatment for the condition.
(b) consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice.
(c) necessary for such a diagnosis or treatment.
(d) not being undertaken primarily for the convenience of the member or the treating 
medical practitioner.
BUPA said it wouldnt pre-authorise the scan on the information it had as it wouldn't expect 
such a scan to be repeated every two years, particularly when the previous result was 
negative. So BUPA hadnt been able to decide the clinical eligibility of the scan in Mr Cs 
circumstances. It detailed the information it needed so it could decide whether it considered 
the scan was clinically appropriate.
I find BUPA acted within the policy terms and fairly in requiring that further information and 
as it didnt receive the information it reasonably continued to decline the pre-authorisation 
claim for the scan. BUPA has said if Mr C provides the information it will reassess the claim, 
which is fair.
Mr C was stressed and inconvenienced because of BUPAs delays and poor service, which 
BUPA accepts. Mr C says BUPAs actions may have put his health at risk. Ive seen no 
evidence to support his suggestion and I can only look at what happened, not what could 
have happened. Even if there was evidence to support his suggestion, as Ive explained, 
I think BUPAs decision was fair. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments about the flight and accommodation costs he 
incurred. But, as I think BUPAs decision about the claim for the scan was fair theres no 
basis on which I can reasonably say BUPA should compensate Mr C for the cost of the trip 
to the UK he took or a future trip if it approves the pre-authorisation once he provides the 
further information about the scan that it requires. In all the circumstances BUPAs offer of 
£200 compensation for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience was a reasonable amount.  
I understand that BUPAs paid Mr C the £200, if not and Mr C wishes to accept he should 
contact BUPA direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman