DRN-1423971
The complaint
Ms G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when she applied for a credit card on a 
postal application form.
What happened
Ms G complained to this Service. She initially said she didnt know she had PPI until she 
made the complaint. But more recently she said that although nothing was explained to her, 
she thought it was advisable to have cover on her credit card. 
Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldnt be upheld. Ms G disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Ms G, so Ill explain why.
Capital One and Ms G both say she applied for the credit card and PPI on a postal 
application form. She said no-one explained anything to her at the time of the sale and that 
she wouldnt have agreed to it if it had been explained. I have seen Ms G's credit card 
application form. It was addressed to her so I can reasonably assume the form was sent to 
Ms Gs home and she completed it without talking to Capital One staff. So it doesn't surprise 
me that Capital One staff were not around to explain anything to her.
I can see from the copy of the original postal application form that Ms G signed the form to 
say she wanted to be enrolled in the payment protection scheme. I did see that the form 
had Ms G's personal details and her annual salary. So I can reasonably assume that Ms G 
completed these details and the PPI Yes tick box on the form. I noted she could have 
ticked "No". So as she had that clear choice, I think PPI was shown to be an optional 
product. So I think its likely Ms G knew she had a choice about taking out PPI and ticked 
the box because she wanted it. 
Capital One said the sale was non-advised - and this is most likely as there was no 
interaction with Capital One staff for Ms G's postal application. For non-advised sales, 
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Ms G, it just gave her information about PPI. 
But the information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI.
Capital One told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Ms 
G would have received some documents with the application form that would have given 
her the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. That being said even 
if Capital One did give all the information Ms G needed to make an informed choice, I think 
she would have taken the policy because at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI due to her age, country of residence and employment 
status.
I dont think she would have been caught by any of the main things not covered 
by the policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a 
successful claim. So I dont think that more detailed information about the 
exclusions would have put her off from buying PPI.
Ms G said she didnt have any savings, but she told us she would get sick pay 
from her employer. So I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in 
addition to her employee benefits if she made a successful claim. And I think she 
could have seen PPI as a useful benefit.
I dont know how Capital One explained the PPI cost and benefits to Ms G. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 2000, so I dont think that more 
detailed information would have put her off from buying PPI. So as I think she chose to 
have PPI because she wanted it, I think she bought the policy as it was probably of benefit 
to her.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional. And I think 
the information was probably clear enough for her to make an informed decision. So 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman