DRN-2201161
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed the payment of his
uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (lump sum) and didnt respond to his
correspondence causing an increased tax bill, investment loss and significant distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr M wrote to Aviva stating hed like to take his pension as a lump sum
and requested the relevant forms. As Aviva sent the wrong information to Mr M, he sent
another letter. Mr M continued to chase Aviva for this information until they sent him the
forms requested in December 2018  after they had raised a complaint on his behalf due to
the poor service he had received.
Aviva also explained that once the lump sum payment had been made, they would calculate
any financial loss that may have occurred as a result of their delays and would put this right
 in addition to compensating Mr M for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M completed the relevant forms and returned them to Aviva by post and requested his
P45 to be sent to him as soon as possible. Taking stock of his finances and in the firm belief
that the lump sum would be paid in the current tax year (by 5 April 2019), Mr M decided to
start the process to encash a separate pension and instructed that pension provider to make
that payment in the following tax year (after 5 April 2019). Mr M said he wanted to ensure his
taxable income was taxed at the basic rate of 20% and not the higher rate of 40%.
Throughout January and February 2019, Mr M sent a number of chaser letters to Aviva. In
March, he sent two more (including one by recorded delivery). He also explained that he
wanted his lump sum payment to be split between the two tax years.
Concerned that he hadnt heard from Aviva and with the end of the tax year fast 
approaching, at the end of March Mr M and his partner made calls to Aviva. At the beginning
of April, Aviva informed Mr M they hadnt received any of his letters since the one he sent in
December 2018; and it was agreed that copies of the letters Mr M had sent would be re-sent 
via email. This was done that same day.
Concerned that the lump sum wouldnt now be paid by 5 April (which was, by this time a few
days away) Mr M decided to bring forward the encashment of his other pension and
instructed the other pension provider to make the payment by 5 April 2019. This instruction
was successful.
A further chaser email was sent to Aviva on 3 April and the forms Mr M had previously sent
in December were also re-sent. The cover email asked when the lump sum payment would
be made. On the 5 April Mr Ms partner called Aviva to get an update and was informed that
no split payment would be made, and the one lump sum payment would reach Mr Ms
account on 8 April.
Aviva initiated the payment process that same day and generated the P45  meaning his
lump sum payment although received on 8 April (tax year 2019/20), was deemed to be paid
on 5 April (tax year 2018/19).
Aviva then assessed whether Mr M had suffered any financial loss due to their delays. They
found that during the period the payment was delayed (from December to April), Mr Ms
pension had increased in value by £1224.32. Aviva explained to Mr M that due to him having
selected a lump sum payment, they wouldnt have been able to split the payment as
requested. In addition to their apology for the poor service Mr M received, they sent him a
cheque for £250 for the inconvenience caused, in an attempt to resolve the complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with this and returned the cheque. Maintaining that it was due to the
delays caused by Aviva, they didnt have the time to split his lump sum payment. He
explained that he held Aviva responsible for his increased tax bill (£1228.87) he now had to
pay in relation to the encashment of his other pension being brought forward.
Mr M further explained that as his pension with Aviva increased in value by £1224.32, this
neutralised the increased tax bill of £1228.87. And so, he was seeking £1250 from Aviva as
a gesture of good will. In his letter, he stated that if unable to resolve the matter with them,
hed refer it to us, and the sum being sought would increase to £2500.
Unable to resolve the matter with Aviva, Mr M brought the matter to us. He informed us that
he was seeking £2500 due to the:
Seven months delay regarding his lump sum payment;
Significant personal financial loss as a direct consequence of the delay;
Ongoing time burden to resolve the issue;
Financial loss due to the delayed lump sum investment; and
Loss of opportunity to minimise income release amount liable for higher rate tax.
Aviva confirmed that had there been no delays, the lump sum payment should have been
within 4-5 weeks of his original request. One of our investigators looked into the complaint
and stated that whilst Mr M had suffered delays, he had gained financially as a result. They
explained that Aviva were not responsible for the higher rate tax Mr M had to pay as they
had paid the lump sum in the correct tax year and in line with their processes. They
concluded that the £250 offered was a fair offer.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked that four specific points be considered:
Aviva solely and directly caused the substantial delay of several months in the 
payment of the lump sum;
In having to deal with the delay, Mr M and his partner endured a considerable burden 
of undue inconvenience and stressful upset (which intensified over time);
The loss of investment income with specific reference to the ISA (at a saving rate of 
1.5%) hed planned to invest his lump sum into; and
The financial remedy Aviva should pay as a result.
Mr M explained that a revised figure of £1300 would be reasonable. £300 with reference to
the growth he said he would have benefited from if he had invested the lump sum into the
ISA for six months. And £1000 for the time he and his partner spent dealing with this
(charged at £8 per hour); the cost of home office and the general inconvenience and
stressful upset caused.
Our investigator then asked Aviva to complete a redress calculation. Taking into
consideration any additional payment of 8% simple interest we would expect them to includein their calculation for financial loss; explaining that this calculation should be from the date
Mr M should have received his lump sum.
Aviva provided a breakdown of this showing Mr M should have received his payment on 18
October (had his original request been actioned). They explained that at this point he would
have received £35,447.96. Adding 8% simple interest to this figure from October to April (the
length of the delay) this brought the figure up to £36,760.99. Due to the increase in the value
of his Aviva pension, in April Mr M received £39,837.46.
Our investigator informed Mr M that hed made a gain of over £3000 as a result of the delay
and so, they remained unpersuaded by his argument. Mr M was unhappy with this and
maintained he should receive compensation to the (reduced) sum of £1300. He also pointed
out that he was unsure why wed said the pension gain had changed from £1224.32 to over 
£3000 and so this has been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Mr M has provided a vast amount of detail in support of his view and I would like to assure
him that whilst I have read the information provided, and it has formed part of my thought
process, I have only made reference to what I have deemed to be crucial and therefore most
relevant to my decision. Using the four specific points raised by Mr M, I will set out my
considerations below.
Delays caused by Aviva
Aviva caused significant delays, which as a result caused Mr M much distress and
inconvenience. And their failure to respond to his numerous correspondence certainly made
the situation worse. It was a straight forward request, which by Avivas own admission
should have taken 4-5 weeks to carry out, but instead took seven months.
Aviva have acknowledged the poor service they have provided Mr M, and they fully accept
the delays that occurred were due to their actions and fell short of the standard expected.
So, I do not need to consider this point any further.
Financial loss
Mr M is of the view that as his pension with Aviva increased in value by £1224.32, this
neutralised the increased tax bill of £1228.87. However, I still need to consider this point
when deciding whether he has suffered any financial loss.
When Aviva wrote to Mr M in April, they explained that if he had received the lump sum in
December 2018, he would have received £1224.32 less than the amount he received in April
2019. It isnt clear why they have used December 2018 as the time Mr M would have
received his lump sum. However, I assume that this is because it was when he had been
sent and then returned the relevant documents in order to get the lump sum paid. But it is
clear that the reason he received the relevant documents in December was due to Avivas
earlier delays.
Aviva has confirmed that if they had carried out his initial request in a timely manner, they
should have been able to surrender the funds under Mr Ms policy within 4-5 weeks of his
initial request in September, so by 18 October 2018. However, I do not agree with these
timescales. Five weeks from 10 September brings us to 15 October.
Aviva have not been able to account for the additional three days and so have confirmed
that Mr Ms fund as at 15 October would have been £55,418.75. They have also confirmedthat had no errors occurred, the lump sum payment Mr M would have received on 15
October would have been £38,359.66. As we know, Aviva caused significant delays and
during this time, his pension increased in value, meaning he received a lump sum payment
of £39,837.46 in April 2019.
As a result, it isnt right to compare the payment Mr M would have received in December to
what he actually received in April. The comparison should be between what he would have
received on 15 October and what he actually received in April. Our investigator stated Mr M
had received over £3000 more because they also took into consideration the 8% simple
interest per year, Aviva would have had to pay on the £35,447.96 he would have received on 
18 October, for the period of which he was deprived of his funds (October 2018 to April
2019).
However, it has been established that the lump sum would have been paid three days
earlier. And Mr M has told us that he had planned to invest this into his ISA at an interest
rate of 1.5%. I have no reason to doubt Mr M regarding this. In these particular 
circumstances, I therefore think its appropriate to use the 1.5% interest we know Mr M lost
out on rather than a more generic 8%. This equates to £271.14.
With this in mind, the total figure (including the interest Mr M would have earned from his
missed ISA investment opportunity) should have been calculated as £38,630.80. Therefore,
Mr M received £1206.66 more than he would have, had his Aviva pension not increased in
value over the delayed period. I would like to point out, that if the opposite were true and his
pension had decreased in value, I would direct Aviva to meet the shortfall plus the relevant
interest.
The reason Mr M had to pay a higher tax bill is because he received his Aviva pension and
the other pension in the same tax year. This happened due to a combination of two key
factors. Firstly, that after having given written instruction to Aviva to make a split payment of
his lump sum (between the two tax years), Mr M then brought forward the encashment of his
other pension. Secondly, that Aviva failed to respond to this request, which meant Mr M
wasnt aware receiving a split payment wouldnt be possible.
Mr M has carefully explained that he felt the need to bring forward the encashment of his
other pension, as by the 1 April he didnt think Aviva would make the payment in the current
tax year (before 5 April). He has also clearly set out why he wanted to receive his lump sum
as a split payment, in that he was trying to mitigate his tax liabilities, which was a reasonable
thing to do. And in the absence of confirmation from Aviva that a split payment was
possible, it would seem an assumption was made by Mr M that his written instruction would
be carried out.
Aviva have said they didnt receive the letters Mr M sent to them between January and
March 2019. However, all the letters Mr M sent were addressed correctly and I note he even
sent one by recorded delivery towards the end of March. I am therefore of the view that it is
more likely than not that Aviva did receive these letters, but for whatever reason did not take
the appropriate action; which would have been to explain that a split payment wouldnt be
possible. Had this been done, I think it is unlikely that Mr M would have brought forward the
encashment of his other pension.
Alternatively, Aviva could have arranged for the lump sum to be paid in the following tax
year. I therefore think Avivas poor customer service and lack of communication, is the root
cause of the increased tax bill Mr M received.
On the matter of investment loss, Mr M has explained hed planned to put his lump sum
payment into an ISA at an interest rate of 1.5%. As the payment arrived in his account on8 April, he wasnt able to take advantage of this and was seeking £300 to cover this financial
loss. I have no reason to doubt Mr M had every intention of utilising the ISA and its
associated interest rate as he has clearly set out the careful considerations, he had given to
his finances at the time. That said, I have already included the 1.5% interest rate in my
calculations, and so this need not be considered any further.
Whilst Mr M has benefited from Avivas delays by £1206.66, this does not cover the overall
loss of £1228.87 (for the increased tax bill). Mr M provided a detailed explanation of his tax
bill in his letter to Aviva dated 6 May 2019 and I am persuaded by his calculations. This
therefore, leaves a difference of £22.21 to be considered (£1228.87 less £1206.66). I
therefore, think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to make a payment to Mr M
regarding this difference.
Stress and inconvenience caused to Mr M
I note Mr M has specifically requested that he be reimbursed for his time spent dealing with
this matter. But we dont typically make compensatory awards for the complainants time
spent, based on an hourly employment rate. I do not doubt that having to chase Aviva over
an approximate six-month period, would have been frustrating and time consuming to Mr M.
And I can understand that not receiving responses to a financial matter, that was
understandably important to him, would have been distressing and worrying.
In considering how to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused, I must
consider the overall impact of Avivas actions on Mr M and be fair to both sides when
deciding the appropriate compensation award, if any.
Financial remedy to be paid by Aviva
Aviva have already attempted to pay Mr M £250 in acknowledgement of the notable delays
and general poor customer service he received. However, Mr M is seeking £1000. The
awards we make as a service are moderate. In these particular set of circumstances, I
cannot agree that £1000 would be a fair and reasonable amount. It is agreed that the service
Mr M received was unacceptable. And its accepted that this caused Mr M months of
frustration and inconvenience.
However, I also have to take into account that Mr M was looking to reinvest the lump sum
into an ISA. I dont want to underplay the importance of Mr M wanting to plan his finances,
however, the impact of the delays was less than if for example he was looking to take the
lump sum as a source of income or if the delay had caused him any financial hardship.
I appreciate that Mr M wasnt able to make phone calls to Aviva and sending letters might
have been his preferred method of communication. I can see that Mr M spent lots of time
writing numerous letters, with great detail, which would have taken him a long time.
However, I dont think this was necessary. He could have sent much shorter reminder
letters, informing Aviva that responses were still outstanding. I also note that Mr Ms partner
made contact with Aviva by email and phone towards the end of the tax year, which Mr M
could have possibly asked her to do earlier as well. So, I think Mr M could have mitigated the
time spent on chasing Aviva.
Taking all of the above into account I would say that the £250 offered was a fair offer and it
is broadly in line with what I would expect to be offered under such circumstances. However,
Aviva havent gone far enough in considering how to put things right. In addition to the £250
for the distress and inconvenience caused, Aviva should also pay to Mr M £22.21 plus 8% 
simple interest.The response to my provisional decision
Aviva have accepted my provisional decision and asked from what date the simple interest 
should be applied.
Mr M doesnt agree with my provisional decision in its entirety. He has said that December 
was the earliest that he would have started the encashment process as thats when he 
received the fund value information hed requested. As such, he has asked that I use 
December as the baseline for the fund value, which would show £1,224.32 growth. Rather 
than 15 October, which would show £1,477.80 growth.
Mr M accepts the ISA investment calculation of £271.14, based on the opportunity having 
been lost from October. However, he has now said that as December should be the 
baseline, he accepts this will reduce this figure. He has provided an approximate revised 
figure of £180. 
Mr M says the increased fund value (£1,224.32) doesnt cover his losses (increased tax bill 
£1,228.87 and ISA investment £180). There is a loss of £184.55. And Mr M maintains that 
Aviva should pay £1000 for the undue inconvenience and stressful upset. So, it is clear 
Mr M thinks the total payment awarded to him should be £1,184.55. 
Weve also asked Mr M more than once, when he paid the increased tax bill; to assist Aviva 
with their 8% interest calculations. In response he has recapped why the tax bill increased 
and explained that he assumes the tax bill date of 5 April 2019 should apply. He hasnt said 
when he paid his tax bill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has attempted to clarify why the baseline for the fund value should be December. But 
Ive reviewed the letters sent to Aviva at the time. In Mr Ms letter dated 22 September 2018, 
he stated he was most likely to proceed with full encashment of [his] Policy with minimum 
further delay. And Im satisfied he had intended to start the encashment process 
immediately. I have to decide whats most likely based on all the evidence. And I think his 
intention at the time was to access his funds as soon as possible, once Aviva had provided 
the information, he had requested in September. 
Aviva has accepted they delayed the process and have said it would have been completed 
by 15 October if everything had been actioned correctly. For that reason, I still think the 
baseline for the fund should be 15 October 2018 and as such £1,477.80.
With reference to Mr Ms arguments for £1,184.55 to be awarded to him, he hasnt provided 
any new information for me to consider. As such, Im not persuaded that the amounts stated 
in the provisional decision are unreasonable or unfair. Therefore, I still think £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £22.21 plus 8% simple interest with regards to the 
tax bill, is a fair and reasonable award in these particular circumstances. 
The 8% simple interest should be calculated from the date Mr M paid the increased tax bill  
not from when it became due. Mr M has said a tax bill date of 5 April 2019 should apply, but 
hasnt said when he made the payment, despite our direct questioning around this. As we 
havent been provided with the payment date (only an assumed tax bill date), Im unable to 
say when the interest should be calculated from. Therefore, unless Mr M provides evidence of the payment date to Aviva within 60 days of the 
date of this decision, Aviva will not be expected to calculate and pay the 8% simple interest 
with reference to the £22.21. Although they will still have to pay £22.21 for the reasons I 
provided in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr M:
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if they havent already done so; and
£22.21 with reference to the increased tax bill; 8% simple interest should be paid in 
line with the above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman