DRN-3951878
The complaint
Mr Ks complains is that Etika Finance UK Limited applied a default to his credit file while his 
complaint was being investigated.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Mr K received a benefit linked to his life insurance product which was financed 
through a credit agreement with Etika Finance. I note his comments that he didnt 
understand that the agreement with Etika Finance was a serious financial agreement. 
But he was sent confirmation of his application being accepted and the agreement 
Mr K e-signed sets out that it is a fixed sum loan agreement and includes all the key 
terms and information about what can happen if payments are missed. Therefore, I 
think Mr K was provided with the information he needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to enter the credit agreement.
Mr K was unable to access the benefit he signed up for and contacted the life 
insurance provider. I note Mr Ks comments about the service provided by the life 
insurance company and also the issues he was having with the company that would 
have provided the benefit. But this complaint is against Etika Finance and so I am 
only considering whether the actions taken by Etika Finance were reasonable.
Mr K was in dispute with his life insurance company when he received letters from 
Etika Finance, but I do not think this means it was reasonable for him not to take 
action. Mr K was sent a notice of sums in arrears in July 2022 and a default notice 
dated 20 August 2022. The default letter clearly states that action needs to be taken 
and that the letters shouldnt be ignored. The letters set the actions that needed to be 
taken and the consequences of not doing this. Therefore, I find Mr K had the 
information available to him to prevent the default being applied. As he didnt make 
the payments required in the letters, I cannot say that Etika Finance did anything 
wrong by taking further action.
Mr K spoke to Etika Finance about the issues he was experiencing. On the calls on 
21 July and 15 August 2022 Mr K is told that not making his payments could have an 
adverse effect on his credit file. On the call on 21 July, he was told that the life 
insurance company would need to cancel the agreement. Etika Finance contacted 
the life insurance company and on the call on 15 August Mr K was told that the life 
insurance company hadnt agreed to cancel the credit agreement and that he 
remained liable for the payments. Given this, I find Mr K was aware that he needed to 
make the payments due under the credit agreement and that not doing so could 
affect his credit file.
Etika Finance applied a default to Mr Ks credit file on 8 September 2022. As this was 
after the date set out in the default notice and I find that Mr K was given adequate 
warning of what could happen if payment wasnt made, I do not find I can say Etika 
Finance was wrong to take the action it did.
For the reasons set out above, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman