DRN-3090132
The complaint
Miss O complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined her claim on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to pay her claim.
 
What happened
Miss O took out a motor insurance policy with Haven through an online price comparison 
site. When her car was stolen from outside her house, she tried to claim on her policy. 
Haven declined her claim and cancelled her policy. When Miss O complained, it said shed 
answered the question shed been asked about where her car was stored overnight 
incorrectly. And also that she hadnt correctly stated her annual mileage. And that it 
considered these to be deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentations, which entitled it 
to refuse her claim. 
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation regarding where the car was kept 
overnight. But she didnt think this was deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. 
She didnt have enough evidence to say that Miss O had exceeded her mileage limit. She 
said Haven should consider Miss Os claim. And, if it decided to settle it, it should do so 
proportionately, with interest, and also consider her consequential losses. 
Haven didnt respond to the investigators view and so the complaint has come to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
I can see that Miss Os policy also contained an endorsement that said that theft of her car 
wouldnt be covered unless it was stored in the stated location overnight. But Haven hasnt 
relied on this to decline her claim but on misrepresentation. And so Im satisfied that I should 
consider this complaint under CIDRA. 
Haven thinks Miss O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in his application via a comparison site that the overnight storage location of her 
car was a garage. And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the 
application and I agree she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked 
what the overnight storage location was and given various options. There were images for 
each option, but I cant see that they were further defined. But I think this was a reasonably 
clear question asked by Haven through the comparison site Miss O used.
Miss O chose garage and shes explained that this was because shed been keeping her car 
in a locked compound behind her house. But I think this is clearly not a garage. And I think 
Miss O should reasonably have chosen other in answer to the question. She could then 
have provided further information if required. And so I think this means Miss O failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she said the overnight storage 
location would be a garage. 
Haven has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Miss O had not 
made this misrepresentation it would have at least charged her a higher premium. This 
means I am satisfied Miss Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
But I dont think Miss Os misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
This is because I think Miss O considered her parking place as equivalent to a garage as it 
was secured. And I think she could have been given further guidance when she was asked 
the question. So Im satisfied that Miss O made a careless misrepresentation of where she 
kept her car overnight. 
Haven also thought Miss O had misrepresented her annual mileage. But I dont agree as I 
cant see that it has established the mileage that Miss O drove whilst she was insured by 
Haven. So I think its unfair and unreasonable for Haven to rely on this to decline the claim. 
Miss O made a careless qualifying misrepresentation about the overnight storage of her car 
and Haven would have charged a higher premium if Miss O hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. The available remedy under CIDRA is that Haven will have to consider 
the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. And so I think it was unfair for Haven to 
decline Miss Os claim.
Miss O has been without her car and her settlement for some time. So I think Haven should 
reasonably add interest to any settlement from the date it declined the claim to the date of 
settlement. 
Miss O has also incurred travel costs as she hasnt been able to afford to replace her car. So 
I think Haven should reasonably consider compensating Miss O for her consequential losses 
when considering her claim. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Haven wasnt entitled to decline Miss Os claim in accordance with 
CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think allowing Haven to rely on it to consider Miss Os claim and settle it proportionately if it 
accepts it produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Putting things rightI require Haven Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Consider Miss Os claim for the theft of her car and, if it accepts it, pay a settlement 
proportionate to the amount of premium she should have paid without the 
misrepresentation of where she stored her car overnight. 
2. Interest should be added to any settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date the claim was declined, to the date of settlement.
3. Consider Miss Os consequential losses, such as her commuting costs, when 
considering her claim.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Haven to take off tax from this interest. Haven must give 
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman