DRN-3868233
The complaint
Mrs S complains about delay and other issues concerning her subsidence claim to Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), started in October 2019. The claim was mostly dealt 
with by loss adjusters though for convenience I shall mostly refer to RSA throughout.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs S reported cracking in her property. She had had two previous claims 
for subsidence, in 1996 and 2006. Some cracking reappeared in 2009, she didnt have to 
pay a policy excess for this as she says it was regarded as a continuation of the 2006 claim. 
She reported further cracking in 2010 but this wasnt regarded as the subsidence continuing.
RSA arranged for an arborists report. That report identified two possible causes of 
subsidence, Mrs Ss hedge, and a neighbours tree. RSA communicated with the neighbour 
over the removal of the tree, and agreed to fund the removal of the hedge for Mrs S. This 
was carried out in August 2020 (following a pause during lockdown). However the neighbour 
didnt want to remove their tree and said that RSA didnt have enough evidence to show it 
was the cause of the subsidence.
Further monitoring was carried out, to establish whether the property was then stable 
following the removal of the hedge.  In March 2021 a further site visit took place. Further 
repairs were identified and the matter was referred to the subsidence consultant. It was 
explained Mrs S that on present evidence the removal of the neighbours tree couldnt be 
justified, nor could the need for a root barrier. I understand that monitoring continued. Mrs S 
was frustrated that a notice had apparently been served on the neighbour but the loss 
adjusters hadnt retained a copy. She was advised that if necessary this would be served on 
the neighbour when it was established that the repairs could go ahead.
Mrs S complained in January 2022 that she had heard no further from RSA. She was then 
advised that asbestos testing would need to take place before the repairs could start. This 
was in May 2022. A further reading of the monitoring check showed that there was still some 
downward movement and it was advised that monitoring continued.
In July 2022 Mrs S advised that the back door and other doors were sticking, RSA arranged 
emergency repairs.
Mrs S referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in July 2022. RSA issued 
a final response letter (FRL) in September 2022. It said that though it couldnt waive the 
excess, there had been avoidable delays in dealing with the claim and paid total 
compensation of £450 (£200 from RSA and £250 from the loss adjusters)
Mrs Ss complaints are:
She should not be required to pay the £1,000 excess, since the cracking is in the same 
area as the 1996 claim.
She had to deal with lots of different people, and as result of the matter not being dealt 
with in a timely manner, many errors have been made. There were long delays and gaps 
in communication.
She has been given differing opinions about the work that is needed and needs to be 
assured that the works will be appropriately carried out and that measures are taken to 
ensure it will not happen again.
She found the conversations with the neighbour to be convoluted and confusing. She 
needs to receive a copy of any notice sent and some reassurance that it will be 
enforceable at law.
The claim is still continuing. Our Investigator advised that we could only look at matters up to 
the FRL of 16 September 2022. She was of the view that RSA had acted reasonably in its 
proposals to deal with the matter. She also said it had paid a reasonable amount of 
compensation to address its and its loss adjusters shortcomings.
Mrs S disagreed, pointing out that she had evidence to show the cracking was in the same 
place as before. She also said that all the emails she had been forwarding to the Investigator 
showed that there had been no change in the service she has been receiving from RSA/its 
loss adjusters. So she would like that evidence to be considered now.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs S has told us that she is still suffering the same problems over lack of 
communication and that she still has had no reassurance about the neighbours tree. She 
wants this to be considered. However, in an ongoing claim its not realistic for me to make 
any findings or directions on ongoing matters. This is because those matters are still moving 
and it would be impractical to ask RSA for its response to every issue. We cant carry out the 
handling of the claim. So I have to confirm that in this decision, I will be limiting my findings 
to issues that occurred up to and including RSAs FRL of 16 September 2022. 
£1,000 excess
Mrs S understandably doesnt want to pay another excess as she believes the cracking 
relates to the same areas of subsidence as in 1996, so argues this is a continuation of the 
same claim. RSA has said that due to the time that has elapsed, any previous claim would 
be dealt with as a separate incident. It sees no reason to waive the excess.
Mrs S was with a different insurer in 1996. Whilst cracking may be in the same area Ive 
seen no documentary evidence of this, and regardless of its location, the actual area of 
cracking may not be relevant to the present claim.. On present evidence, vegetation, 
including a hedge and possibly the tree is said to be the cause and that is likely to be at a 
very different stage of growth than in 1996. If the nature of the previous repairs was the 
issue (which I dont think is the case) then RSA isnt liable for that. So its not reasonable for 
me to say that RSA should waive the excess.
poor communication
It must have been frustrating for Mrs S to have to talk to so many different people in an 
attempt to find out what was happening. And it is clear that, since the hedge removal was carried out, there were long periods of time when nothing seemed to be happening and 
Mrs S had to spend time chasing matters up. RSA has confirmed that there were avoidable 
delays in instructing contractors and in reviewing the schedule of works. Having said that, 
I believe RSA was trying to see if the neighbour would consent to having the tree removed, 
and in the meantime, right up until May 2022 monitoring was continuing (and it was 
proposed that it continue). RSA said in its FRL that the property was stable after May 2021, 
which I dont think is the case. I think RSA was mistaken about that. And I think continued 
monitoring was reasonable. So at least up until September 2022, when the FRL was issued, 
repairs couldnt yet get under way. Ive noted that RSA and its loss adjusters have paid a 
total of £450 to Mrs S and I think that that is reasonable under the circumstances.
differing opinions
In this matter which is still ongoing there were a number of site visits. And I understand that 
contractors on site may have offered an opinion to Mrs S that was later referred to a 
subsidence consultant who may have said something different. And things may have 
changed in the course of the claim. I understand Mrs Ss desire to ensure she gets the right 
advice and that appropriate measures be taken to rectify the damage. But, as Ive said this 
claim is still continuing so there is little I can do to ensure RSA acts appropriately at this 
stage. All I can say is that it is obliged to carry out an effective and lasting repair.
neighbours tree
I think a lot of time has been spent on traying to persuade the neighbour to remove the tree, 
even continuing after the FRL  but to no avail.  RSA says a notice was served on the 
neighbour warning them of their liability if the tree is found to be causing the damage. 
Regrettably it appears that the loss adjusters havent retained a copy. At the point of the FRL 
the results of monitoring and particularly looking at tree roots hadnt produced enough 
evidence to justify removal. However RSA has said that at the time of commencing repairs it 
will serve a notice as appropriate. At present it cant say that for example installing a root 
barrier is an appropriate step to take.
I know Mrs S wants to know if such a notice could force the neighbour to remove their tree  
that all depends on the evidence still being obtained through monitoring. Having said that, I 
think RSAs approach to serving (or reserving) such a notice is reasonable. I cant look at 
what happened after the FRL, but it seems to me that RSA will have to consider very soon 
whether it will need to take action against the neighbour, propose some sort of repair which 
will avoid that difficulty or deem the property to be stable. Which is likely highly dependent 
upon the then available evidence.
I am sorry that I cant provide a satisfactory answer to Mrs Ss continuing problems with her 
claim, though as Ive alluded to it does seem that sufficient monitoring will soon be said to 
have taken place. If Mrs S has further complaints about RSA which she cant resolve then 
she will have to put them to it, and if necessary refer them back to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
My final decision
I dont propose to take any further action, but just record here that RSA has paid £450 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman