DRN-3684082
The complaint
Mr L complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim he 
made on his motor warranty.
Reference to Red Sands includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ls car suffered a breakdown, so he made a claim on his motor warranty held with Red 
Sands.
Red Sands declined his claim. Initially it said the part that failed (the clutch) wasnt covered. 
But it later acknowledged the clutch was covered, but not if it was burnt out. And it said the 
details it got from the repairer said the clutch had burnt out  so it didnt think the claim was 
covered.
Mr L wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. An investigator didnt think Red 
Sands had acted unfairly, so they didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint be upheld.
But Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision which said I was thinking of upholding Mr Ls complaint. The 
reasoning was as follows:
The terms of Mr Ls policy clearly say Mr L is covered for failure caused by wear and 
tear, with the exception of burnt or worn out clutch parts
The repair note from the repairer clearly states clutch inop burnt out. But theres 
no more detail than this.
The repair note lists a number of items, including the clutch plate, flywheel and 
cylinder. Its not evident which part(s) is(are) burnt out.
The above point is important, because the policy covers Mr L for the clutch, but 
doesnt cover him for burnt out parts. All the parts claimed for are clutch parts but its 
not clear what exactly is burnt out, so Im not persuaded declining the entire claim is 
reasonable based on this description alone.
Mr L has provided a letter from his repairer saying that a burnt clutch plate would not 
cause the clutch cylinder to fail, but a failed cylinder would cause a clutch to burn out. 
Red Sands has been asked to comment on this but have not done so.
This point too is important. Because if a failed part caused the clutch plate to burn 
out, then I think it would be reasonable to pay the claim. Alternatively, if the clutch 
burning out caused the other parts to fail, then declining the claim would be fair. Its 
Red Sands responsibility to evidence why it need not pay a claim. And Im not 
satisfied its done this.
I said Id consider further evidence sent before 2 September 2022, but that I was thinking of 
requiring Red Sands to pay Mr Ls clutch claim, minus the policy excess. I said I was also 
thinking of requiring Red Sands to pay 8% simple interest on the payment, from the date Mr 
L paid the invoice, to the date Red Sands pays him. 
Mr L agreed with my provisional decision.
Red Sands responded. In summary, it said it should have done further investigation to find 
out what had burnt out. It said had it done so, it would have been better placed to fairly 
assess the claim and make a finding on which part of the clutch failed. It said it agreed that a 
failed cylinder could cause a burnt clutch plate, but that a burnt clutch was unlikely to cause 
a failed cylinder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr L and Red Sands broadly agreed with the reasoning set out in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  To put things right I require Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mr Ls clutch claim minus any policy excess. Payment should include 8% simple 
interest to be calculated from the date Mr L paid the invoice to the date Red Sands 
pay him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman