DRN-3384769
The complaint
Mrs G says that HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt let her reduce her overdraft limit and unfairly 
applied charges and interest to her account.
 
What happened
Mrs G emailed HSBC in February 2021 to say that she wanted all the charges applied to her 
account since 2010 to be refunded. In this letter she also detailed an issue shed had in 
March 2019 when shed been able to repay the overdrawn balance of her overdraft and had 
asked for her overdraft limit to be reduced. Mrs G says HSBC refused to reduce her 
overdraft limit, and as a result she went on to use the overdraft again and incur further 
charges. At the same time, Mrs G contacted us about her complaint. As HSBC hadnt yet 
responded to Mrs G we forwarded her complaint form on to HSBC and asked for its 
response. HSBC did not uphold the complaint, so Mrs G referred her complaint back to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Gs concerns, she explained that he didnt think 
HSBC had acted unfairly. Mrs G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 February 2022. Mrs G did not agree with my findings, 
she remains unhappy that in her view HSBC has been dishonest and has provided her with 
extremely poor service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mrs Gs complaint. 
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
having considered everything provided, and having looked at how Mrs Gs account 
operated and the charges applied in the six years prior to her complaint, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive looked at what happened when Mrs G contacted HSBC in March 2019. At this 
time Mrs G had received some inheritance and was able to repay the overdrawn balance of 
her account in full. Shortly after repaying the balance she phoned HSBC to ask if should 
reduce her overdraft limit to £200. Mrs G says she was told she could not reduce her 
overdraft limit until her account had been in credit for 6 months. She says that as a result of 
this she ended up using her overdraft again and therefore incurring more charges for using 
the facility. 
Ive listened to the phone call Mrs G had with HSBC about her overdraft facility. And HSBC 
did advise her that she couldnt reduce her limit over the phone on that occasion. However, 
the adviser did tell her that she could reduce her limit by going online and offered to talk her 
through that process. Mrs G declined the advisers offer. 
With this in mind I dont agree that HSBC refused to reduce Mrs Gs overdraft facility. It told 
her that it was unable to reduce the limit over the phone, but it also explained what she 
needed to do to reduce the limit herself online, and I think HSBC clearly explained that the 
requirement to be in credit for 6 months wasnt something that affected online overdraft 
reductions. It was Mrs Gs decision not to follow that advice and to continue to have the 
overdraft facility on her account. 
And HSBC has offered to pay Mrs G £200 to recognise that its customer service regarding 
this issue could have been better. With all this in mind, Im satisfied that overall HSBC did 
make it clear what Mrs G needed to do to reduce her limit and that it has taken appropriate 
steps to recognise any failures in the service it provided.
However, Mrs G has also told us about her financial difficulties both before and after March 
2019. And HSBC wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs G if it continued to 
apply any interest, fees and charges to her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, 
that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs G fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that HSBC did treat Mrs G unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I cant see that there were any obvious signs of financial difficulties that 
should have flagged to HSBC that Mrs G might need some help. 
I want to be clear here that Im not saying Mrs G wasnt in financial difficulties, but while I 
accept that Mrs G was using her overdraft regularly, the amount being credited to the 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, the overdraft was regularly repaid by credits to 
the account. So I dont think this was enough to flag to HSBC that it ought to review her 
account in more detail, or that should have alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did.
HSBC didnt make any further comments following my provisional decision. But Mrs G 
remained unhappy and reiterated the issues that had caused her concern. Specifically, 
Mrs G is unhappy that HSBC initially told her it could not find a recording of her conversation 
with the bank in March 2019. She also says HSBC told her it would not stop customers from 
repaying their overdrafts when she feels this is exactly what it did to her. Overall, Mrs G feels 
that the level of service HSBC has provided to her falls far below what she would expect.
Mrs G also maintains that she was in financial difficulties and therefore feels that the charges 
applied to her account should be refunded.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G has said, and I agree that there are points when the 
service Mrs G received from HSBC could have been better. I also acknowledge that HSBCs 
initial inability to locate a recording of her conversation with it will have caused her additional 
frustration. But overall I feel that the £200 HSBC has already paid to Mrs G for the failures in 
its service is appropriate to recognise what happened here, I wont be asking it to pay her 
anything more.And I dont think that what HSBC said to her about allowing customers to repay their 
overdrafts was untrue. Mrs G did repay her overdraft, I acknowledge that her overdraft limit 
wasnt removed, but thats not the same as preventing her from repaying her overdrawn 
balance. Once Mrs G had repaid her overdraft in March 2019, she could have chosen not to 
use the overdraft limit that remained on her account.
Turning to Mrs Gs comment that she didnt use online banking, in her conversation with 
HSBC in March 2019 the staff member she spoke with offered to talk her through the 
process so she could reduce her limit online, but Mrs G refused that assistance. While I 
acknowledge that Mrs G wasnt allowed to immediately remove her overdraft limit on the 
phone, she was told of other ways she could reduce it  either online or by maintaining a 
credit balance for a period of time and then calling the bank back to reduce it on the phone. 
So overall I dont think the bank prevented her from reducing her overdraft limit.
Lastly, I acknowledge that Mrs G has said she was in financial difficulties throughout this 
period, but as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the way she was managing 
her account would have flagged to HSBC that she was experiencing difficulties. And in the 
absence of any contact from Mrs G to say she was struggling  in fact there was a 
conversation with the bank in 2019 when Mrs G categorically said she was not struggling 
financially  I cant see anything that makes me think HSCB should stepped in to stop Mrs G 
from using her overdraft. So as I previously explained, I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to 
continue to add the charges and interest it did.
I know that this will be frustrating and disappointing for Mrs G, but having considered all that 
she has said, I still dont think HSBC needs to do anything more here, so Im not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman