DRN-4457526
The complaint
Mr E is complaining about 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money (247). He says 
they shouldnt have lent to him because the repayments werent affordable.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr E took out a hire purchase agreement with 247 to finance the purchase of a 
car. He paid a deposit of £300 and borrowed £4,600  the cash price of the vehicle was 
£4,900. The agreement required Mr E to make 60 monthly repayments of £138.95. 
Mr E complained to 247 in January 2023, saying theyd lent to him irresponsibly and 
shouldnt have given him the unaffordable loan. He said hed had outstanding County Court 
Judgments (CCJs) and several defaults at the time of the agreement. And he said he had 
several other credit card debts as well as being regularly in his overdraft and close to the 
limit. Mr E said it should have been clear to 247 that he was relying on credit for his day to 
day living costs. He added that hed had to take out further debts to prioritise his car 
repayments and received further CCJs on these.
In response, 247 said theyd checked Mr Es credit file and he met their lending criteria. So 
theyd obtained Mr Es most recent payslip and confirmed his monthly average income as 
£1,672. They said theyd carried out a telephone interview with Mr E to discuss his income 
and expenditure and credit commitments, as well as his CCJs. And they reviewed a 30-day 
bank statement, which suggested Mr E had a surplus of over £300. 247 added that Mr E had 
made payments on time until July 2020 when he asked for, and was granted, a payment 
holiday due to a change in circumstances. They said theyd then granted him a further 
payment holiday in November 2021 and he asked for a settlement figure in January 2022. 
They felt Mr Es payment profile supported the lending decision theyd made.
Mr E was unhappy with 247s response and brought his complaint to our service, adding that 
hed kept up with payments to 247 but at significant detriment to his finances and his mental 
health.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He said 
he wasnt satisfied 247 had completed proportionate checks but he felt the agreement was 
likely affordable for Mr E and 247 could have fairly decided to lend to him.
Mr E appealed our investigators view. He said our investigator hadnt considered the value 
of his debts as a proportion of his income. And he thought our investigator had made 
unreasonably low allowances for food and fuel when considering his income and 
expenditure. He asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaint came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2023. In that, I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did 247 carry out proportionate checks?
247 said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Es credit file;
checked his income to payslips;
spoke with Mr E on the phone to confirm his monthly expenditure and discuss his 
credit commitments; and
reviewed one months bank statements.
247 havent provided a copy of Mr Es credit file but theyve told us it showed Mr E had 
two active credit cards, with balances totalling around £800. At the time of the application 
Mr E had recently missed one payment on one of these credit cards. On the call with Mr 
E, he told them 247 that this missed payment was due to a mix-up and was a one-off 
issue. Its clear from that call that 247 also found Mr E had some old defaults (all from 
2017) and two CCJs, one dated 2016 and one dated 2018. Mr E assured 247 that these 
were again caused primarily by administrative issues  mainly changes of address. He 
told them he was paying around £200 per month across all of the defaults and CCJs. 
Ive looked at Mr Es copy of his credit report and I can see the total defaulted balance 
was around £2,500 and his 2018 CCJ was for £321. The date of the credit report means 
the 2016 CCJ is no longer reported. I cant see any other issues which might have 
indicated Mr E was in financial difficulties in 2019. And I think it was reasonable for 247 to 
have accepted Mr Es explanations of why his accounts had defaulted.
CONC says that its not reasonable for a firm to rely on a customers statement of their 
income without some sort of third party confirmation  but it has no corresponding 
guidance for expenditure. By implication therefore, Im inclined to say it is reasonable for 
a firm to rely on a customers statement of their own expenditure. 
247 checked Mr Es income to third party documentation and asked Mr E how much he 
spent on each category of non-discretionary living expenses, other commitments (e.g. TV 
subscriptions) and credit commitments. Ive listened to the phone call and Im inclined to 
say it was a comprehensive assessment. 
Finally, 247 looked at one months bank statements. Theyve said Mr E was operating 
within his overdraft limit and there were no returned direct debits in the timeframe they 
looked at. Ive looked at the statements for the same timeframe and also cant see any 
returned direct debits or other indicators that Mr E might be in financial difficulties or that it 
might be irresponsible to lend to him. The statements do show Mr E regularly made use 
of his arranged overdraft  but many people choose to manage their finances this way 
and on its own this wouldnt be enough to say 247 shouldnt have lent to Mr E.
In summary, 247 carried out comprehensive checks including an income and expenditure 
assessment based on third party evidenced income and Mr Es own assessment of his 
expenditure at the time. Im inclined to say their checks were reasonable and 
proportionate.Did 247 make a fair lending decision?
When 247 checked Mr Es income they said they used the year-to-date figure on his 
payslip and calculated a monthly average - but because it was an April payslip, there was 
no difference between the year to date and months figures. The payslip included some 
weekend overtime  which Mr E told 247 he only worked occasionally. But the amount 
included for overtime (before tax) was only around £156, so I think its reasonable to say 
Mr E would have earned at least £1,550 per month without any overtime.
Looking at the income and expenditure assessment 247 put together, I can see they 
mostly included the figures Mr E told them over the phone. The exceptions to this are as 
follows:
Utilities  Mr E told 247 his utilities totaled £180 per month and he contributed half, 
but 247 included the full £180 in the assessment.
Food shopping  Mr E told 247 he contributed half of the £200 per month cost  but 
247 included £125 (rather than £100) in the assessment.
Travel costs - Mr E told 247 he contributed half of the £20 per week cost  but 247 
included £86 per month in the assessment.
Each of these exceptions increased the estimate of Mr Es expenditure, reducing the risk 
of the loan being unaffordable. So I cant say it was unreasonable for 247 to increase 
these figures. 
247 also included an estimate for the amount Mr E paid against his credit cards each 
month  they calculated this at 3% of the credit card balance at the time. Im inclined to 
say 247 should have used a higher figure for Mr Es credit card repayments  at around 
3% this doesnt appear to allow for Mr E repaying these amounts within a reasonable 
time period as required by CONC 5.2A.12R. I think a figure of around 5% would have 
been more appropriate. But this would only have increased 247s estimate of Mr Es total 
monthly expenditure by £16. 
In total 247 estimated Mr Es total expenditure including credit repayments at around 
£1,340. As Ive explained above, Im inclined to say they should have increased this by 
£16, giving a figure of £1,356. And I think they should have used a figure of around 
£1,550 for his income. But that would still leave Mr E with net disposable income of 
around £200 per month to cover emergencies and discretionary spending. So Im inclined 
to say 247 made a fair lending decision and Im not inclined to uphold Mr Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision so my final decision is unchanged from 
those findings.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about 247 Money Group 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman