DRN-2598842
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has failed to 
advise her on her motor insurance, which she says could have financial consequences for 
her.  
What happened
Admiral contacted Mrs R to inform her a claim had been made against her motor insurance 
policy. At the time Mrs R says she was unaware of the incident. However, later that day Mrs 
R discovered it was her son who had been driving her car and he had caused damage to a 
third-party vehicle. Mrs R has confirmed to Admiral that her son did not have permission to 
drive the car and her son was uninsured.
Mrs R says Admiral failed to answer her question when they notified her of the claim which 
she said could have financial consequences for her. She asked, if she chose not to 
prosecute her son for taking the car without her consent could that have financial 
implications on her. Admiral told Mrs R that they could not advise her whether she should 
prosecute her son.  
Mrs R did not tell Admiral whether she would prosecute her son. So, they indicated to her 
that they would assume she would prosecute her son and they would record this in their 
systems. Admiral indicated to Mrs R that it would ask their underwriting team to speak with 
her to discuss this further, but this was the wrong team at Admiral, resulting in no one 
responding to her. 
In the meantime, Admiral settled the costs for repairing the damage with the third party, prior 
to the matter potentially going to court. Mrs R was asked to sign a consent and indemnity 
form. She didnt sign this form and had asked for some support in understanding what she 
was signing. Admiral obtained a completed assignment and agreement form from the third 
party, which allowed them to settle the claim with the third party and transfer the right of 
recovery from the third party to themselves. Admiral could then seek to recover their costs 
from Mrs R. 
Admiral have responded to Mrs Rs complaint directly and have paid £150 in compensation 
where they accepted, they could have provided a better service. They said:
It is Mrs Rs choice whether to prosecute her son, but they have accepted they did 
not provide further information to her to the support the claim. They said the query 
was passed internally to the wrong team. 
They had not spoken to Mrs R to explain the consent and indemnity form. They said 
their process was aligned with normal industry practice and they said the form was 
accompanied by a detailed letter that explained the purpose of the form.
Our investigators view was to not uphold the complaint. He thought £150 paid by Admiral 
was reasonable compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Mrs R rejected our investigators view as she said she had been given incorrect advice, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R responded to the provisional decision and said she was disappointed with the 
outcome.
Mrs R summarised her points, she said:
I have been honest with Admiral, however I believe that Admiral made mistakes 
which, despite having opportunities to correct and make good they chose not to. 
Admiral, upon receipt of my written complaint could and should have redirected my 
claim to Fire & Theft, yet despite acknowledging their errors chose to allow the claim 
to continue using the wrong route, therefore ensuring there was no further 
communication with me.
I believe you think I tried to ignore this issue. Yet as I hope you can see from my 
response, if anyone ignored anything then Admiral appear to have.
Admiral have a responsibility. They are the professionals. I am a nurse, my 
knowledge relating to the implications of claims is extremely limited, therefore I 
should have been advised and assisted correctly. I am a victim in this also!
Despite numerous communications with Admirals Underwriting department 
reminding me I could not claim for damage to my vehicle, and me reminding them 
there was no damage, not one Admiral representative understood what the status of 
the incident was. If just one of those representatives had read the case and had 
gained an understanding maybe they could have realised that the case was in the 
wrong department and could have corrected the previous mistakes and passed the 
case to Fire & Theft.
Admiral are asking me to pay a claim of which I have absolutely no idea of costs. 
There was no visible damage to my vehicle, hence my lack of knowledge of the 
accident. They have failed to provide me an understanding of what has been paid as 
well as any of the details of the incident. To just require a substantial payment 
without a breakdown of any costs is not acceptable, yet I feel you think this is fine?
Mrs R also said, that if Admiral had explained correctly that she would be held liable for her 
sons actions, she would have reported the incident to the police. However, she said in order 
to do this she would have required details related to the collision, and she said she still 
doesnt know which police force area the collision occurred, nor does she have any 
information at all related to the third party.
Admiral did not respond to the provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has made several points in response to the provisional decision. These points were 
considered in making the provisional decision and some contributed towards the trouble and 
upset payment been set at £150. Unfortunately, the points do not bring anything new to the 
case and so dont influence me to change my decision.
However, Mrs R has said that an [incorrect] assumption was made in the provisional 
decision and she has now clarified that she would have reported her son to the police if she 
had known she would be held liable for the costs. The concern I have is that Mrs R has known this for some time during the period of this complaint and I have still not seen any 
signs suggesting she is going to prosecute her son. Mrs R says she doesnt have any 
information about which police force to contact, but she did know her car was taken by her 
son without her authority. I think this is enough information for the police to start an 
investigation, should they have been made aware of the situation. Therefore, whilst I do think 
Admiral could have dealt with this claim better (which I have awarded compensation for), I 
still dont think it is reasonable to expect them to settle the claim for third party damage and 
for that reason I dont uphold this part of the complaint.   
My final decision
 I partially uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay additional compensation of £150 for trouble and upset caused as Admiral should 
have intervened and provided more support and guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman