DRN-2889524
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how Bank of Scotland plc handled his mortgage accounts 
following his bankruptcy in March 2011. The mortgages were held with Birmingham 
Midshires (BM) and The Mortgage Business (TMB), both of which are trading names of 
Bank of Scotland plc.
He says incorrect information has been recorded on his credit file, hes received letters about 
mortgage accounts that he is no longer liable for, and the council tax wasnt paid for a 
property he no longer controlled.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
.
I trust Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things 
independently without taking sides.
It isnt in dispute that the information reported to the credit reference agencies by Bank of 
Scotland has been incorrect over the years, so I dont need to comment further  or make 
any findings  on that. All I need to think about is how to put things right.
For clarity Bank of Scotland should ensure all Mr Bs accounts are reported as:
In default on the date of his bankruptcy (March 2011).
Part satisfied on the date he was discharged from bankruptcy (March 2012).
That should be the case for all the mortgage accounts Mr B held with BM and TMB at the 
point he went bankrupt. As the date of discharge is over six years ago all his mortgage 
accounts should now not be reported to the credit reference agencies.
I understand Mr B would like the mortgages for the properties he has retaken control of to 
be reported going forwards, but because  due to his bankruptcy  he is no longer liable for 
those debts that isnt something Bank of Scotland can do. Thats not to say that Mr B can 
choose not to make the payments with no repercussions, as if he misses payments such 
that any account reaches the threshold for repossession then Bank of Scotland still has its 
security to fall back on, but due to his bankruptcy Mr B isnt liable  as such  for the debts 
and therefore Bank of Scotland cant report anything to the credit reference agencies about 
them (good or bad).
Bank of Scotland has told us it has received numerous complaints from different 
consumers that incorrect information is showing with the credit reference file provider that 
Mr B has been using. In Mr Bs case account *700 was showing twice, but with different 
information. Bank of Scotland has said that complaint needs to be directed to the credit 
reference file provider in question as the error is its end, not Bank of Scotlands end.
Mr B has said that hes been unable to obtain credit due to the misinformation that has 
been reported by Bank of Scotland over the years. Hes mentioned car finance and a 
mobile phone, that a relative had to take out for him, and that hes been unable to get a 
mortgage to buy further properties, or to remortgage his existing properties.
Whilst I understand Mr B feels he would have been able to obtain credit on favourable 
terms were it not for this information, unfortunately that is something we would never be 
able to prove such that we can quantify any specific financial loss. Mr B has lived abroad 
for many years, and still does, and any information on his UK based credit file wouldnt 
have impacted him obtaining credit from a provider there as a credit file doesnt travel with 
you abroad.
Mr B would have been able to build up his credit in his new country of residence, just like 
any other ex-pat would do. And any UK based lender may well have had issue with the fact 
Mr B had lived abroad for so long, as there can be eligibility criteria around being a UK 
resident and a need to provide proof of living at a UK address. Whilst Mr B used a relatives 
address for correspondence purposes, it would be incorrect to declare that on any 
application for credit and instead he would have needed to declare his true address 
abroad. There would be some credit providers that didnt have an issue with that, but it 
wouldnt have been a case that all lines of credit would have been available to him.
It may be Mr B has spent enough time in the UK to keep his UK residency status, but even 
if that were the case we still cant quantify any financial loss Mr B can be proven to have 
incurred because of, and which can be solely attributable to, the information Bank of 
Scotland reported to the credit reference agencies.
I understand the matter of the unpaid Council Tax bill for one of the properties that Bank of 
Scotland had responsibility for has now been resolved, with Bank of Scotland paying Mr B 
the amount he paid to settle that bill.
There clearly has been confusion about the status of some of the properties, and Bank of 
Scotland has admitted it instructed a debt collection agency when it shouldnt have done so 
as Mr B  due to his bankruptcy - wasnt liable for the debts that remained when his various 
properties were sold in possession for a shortfall.
Mr B has been very clear that he doesnt think Bank of Scotland should contact him at all 
about the properties that he didnt take back into his control, but thats not the case. The 
various properties remained in his name (as owner) with the Land Registry, and the 
mortgages were still held in his name. Whilst he wasnt personally liable for the debts 
(albeit the debts were secured on the properties, and so Bank of Scotland could try to 
recoup some of its money when those properties were sold), his name remained on the 
mortgage accounts and therefore correspondence would be sent to him.
As an example, the letter in November 2020 sent to Mr B by Bank of Scotlands solicitor 
said the property which had the mortgage *339 was being handed back to Bank of 
Scotland by the LPA Receiver, and that Mr B could get in contact to see if he could come 
to an acceptable arrangement so he was able to take back possession of the property. 
That seems a fair communication, as Mr B had the option to take back possession of the 
property if he was able to meet the criteria  just like he did with the other properties in 
2018. There was, of course, information that was incorrect in that letter as it was a 
standard letter for a property that is being handed back to the lender from an LPA Receiver 
 such as that Mr B would be liable for the debt, and that the credit reference agencies would be notified of any repossession. I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland to put in place 
bespoke letters for Mr B, it is enough that it has told him he can ignore anything that isnt 
relevant to him.
Bank of Scotland couldnt suppress the letters on just some of the accounts that are held in 
Mr Bs name  that is, the ones he hadnt retaken control of  without it also supressing the 
letters on the accounts he did control. Some stages of litigation and possession 
automatically trigger certain letters to be issued, and that isnt something Bank of Scotland 
could stop happening. Instead it told Mr B he could safely ignore those letters that arent 
relevant to him due to his bankruptcy and situation.
Until the properties are sold Mr B does own all of them  including the ones he no longer 
controls. If Mr B feels his Trustee in Bankruptcy  or the Court - did anything wrong in 
relation to the properties and the Land Registry registration, then that is something he 
would need to take up with them directly, but I can see the Land Registry simply shows Mr 
B was the owner of the various properties (even those he no longer controlled) and that 
Bank of Scotland held a charge on the properties as mortgagee. That is what matters to 
Bank of Scotland, and what matters for this complaint. As both the owner of the properties 
in question, and the person named on the mortgage accounts, Bank of Scotland has to 
keep Mr B informed of certain actions even if control of the properties rests with an LPA 
Receiver and/or Bank of Scotland directly.
All that said, Bank of Scotland was wrong to pass a shortfall debt to a debt collection 
agency, which led to a home visit. Whilst Mr B has referred to it as his home address and 
an invasion of his personal space, I understand the visit in question was made to Mr Bs 
relatives address that he uses for correspondence (with any post then being sent onto his 
address abroad).
When considering any distress and inconvenience caused I can only consider that in 
respect of the person who is eligible to complain (ie the customer of the financial provider). 
Here that is Mr B. Ive no power to consider any distress or inconvenience caused to any of 
Mr Bs family, even if that was due to the matters being dealt with here.
Mr B has also mentioned a letter received just before Christmas about a £96,000 shortfall 
debt, which didnt enable him to relax over Christmas. Whilst clearly that letter shouldnt 
have been sent, Im satisfied that Mr B has been aware since long before that letter was 
sent that he wasnt liable for that sum and that any such letters were a mistake.
It isnt in dispute that Bank of Scotland has got things wrong, and that matters have been 
protracted over a number of years. To date Bank of Scotland has paid the following 
compensation sums to Mr B for this matter:
£500 in 2017,
£150 in 2018,
£200 and £500 in 2020,
£650 later in 2020 in accordance with our investigators assessment of the 
complaint.
So a total of £2,000 in compensation has been paid to Mr B in respect of this matter.
We recently asked Mr B what he wanted to resolve matters (other than his credit file to be 
corrected) and he said he wanted £5,000 to reimburse him for various letters his solicitor 
has had to write on his behalf, and £5,000 compensation for the impact on his life.Ive considered this very carefully but Im not awarding Mr B the £10,000 hes requested. Ill 
explain why.
I cant award Mr B the £5,000 hes requested for letters written by his solicitor for two 
reasons. Generally we say it is a persons choice to get legal representation. We are a free 
service and Mr B could have referred matters to us rather than paying a legal 
representative. Mr B did refer a complaint to us in 2017, but then he didnt progress the 
credit file aspect of that after our investigator said we couldnt consider the main bulk of his 
complaint. This complaint was then referred to us in March 2020. Had a complaint about 
Mr Bs credit file, the debt collectors and the council tax bill been referred to us before then 
we could have investigated and resolved things just as we are now. A solicitor wasnt 
needed, and I cant see any aspect where a letter from Mr Bs solicitor has resolved any of 
these matters.
In any event, even if a solicitor was needed Mr B has said I dont have a copy of the 
invoices from the solicitor and whilst he may feel his estimates of both the number of 
letters sent and the likely cost of each letter is reasonable, without evidence of what costs 
were incurred and for exactly what, along with proof Mr B paid those costs, we wouldnt be 
able to make any award.
I now turn to Mr Bs request for £5,000 compensation for the impact on his life. As Ive 
explained above, Bank of Scotland has already paid £2,000 to Mr B for these issues, so Im 
considering if £2,000, £5,000 or a different sum entirely is a fair sum.
To be clear here Im not considering any potential financial impact on Mr B  such as the 
fact he couldnt get UK credit whilst abroad, or the cost of his legal letters  as Ive already 
explained why I cant make any award for those. Im just thinking about the practical and 
emotional impact on Mr B personally  often referred to as distress and inconvenience.
The award of compensation for distress and inconvenience is fairly subjective  theres no 
exact scale as it were. We have some fairly broad bandings, which we publish on our 
website at www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress- 
or-inconvenience.
The fifth band is described as An award  of up to £5,000 and that says:
An award of over £1,500 and up to around £5,000 is appropriate where the mistakes 
cause sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to 
daily life typically lasting more than a year. A mistake that has an extremely serious short- 
term impact could also warrant this level of compensation, but usually youd expect some 
ongoing or lasting effects.
Examples at the higher end could include where the effects of the mistake are irreversible 
or have a lasting impact on someones health or even resulted in a personal injury.
Im satisfied the total award due (including that already paid) sits within this band so I need 
to decide the actual amount within that band. As Ive already explained, I cant consider the 
impact on Mr Bs relatives of a debt collection agent visiting their home, and I must keep in 
mind that whilst Mr Bs credit file has been impacted for a number of years he has been 
living abroad for that time, so the day-to-day impact hasnt been as great as it would have 
been for someone living and working in the UK throughout. Thats not to say Im at all 
minimising the impact it has had on Mr B as clearly this has gone on for far too long, but 
these are all things I need to keep in mind when deciding on compensation.
Having considered everything Im minded to order Bank of Scotland to pay Mr B a further £250 compensation (on top of the £2,000 already paid), which takes the total 
compensation for these issues to £2,250.
Both parties confirmed they accepted my provisional findings. Mr B asked if a clause can be 
inserted to say that if Bank of Scotland fails in its duty to report correctly that a further 
punishment would be made. As our investigator explained, that isnt something were able to 
do but if Mr B accepts this decision it will be legally binding, so he would be able to enforce it 
in court if he needs to do so.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the full file afresh I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc to report all Mr Bs mortgage 
accounts (both those held on properties he controlled and ones held on properties he didnt 
control) to show them as:
In default on the date of his bankruptcy (March 2011).
Part satisfied on the date he was discharged from bankruptcy (March 2012).
No further credit reporting should be made about any accounts after that date, 
whether that is positive or negative.
As the date of discharge is over six years ago all Mr Bs mortgage accounts should now not 
show on his credit reference file when a search is made by a potential new lender.
Bank of Scotland plc should also pay Mr B a further £250 compensation (on top of the 
£2,000 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman