DRN-2661878
The complaint
 Miss A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), carried out a poor standard of 
repair under her home emergency insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 Miss A contacted BG to report a leak in her home. It sent an engineer who found that the 
leak was due to a plumbing issue and organised for another engineer to attend to fix it. That 
engineer attended and changed a pipe, but Miss A didnt see him complete the work or 
leave. 
Later that day, Miss A discovered that there was more water on the floor than before, so she 
contacted BG and reported this. Miss A said that the leak happened because the engineer 
had failed to shut off the water and failed to ensure that the system was fully drained. And 
she knew this as she still had running water and the original leak was very minor. 
Miss A complained to BG as she felt that the engineer who attended to repair the leak had 
made it worse and this caused damage to her property and possessions. She estimated that 
the replacement of her items would cost around £1,000. BG sent another engineer who 
found that there was no leak but high levels of water present.
Miss A describes that despite contacting BG to report the leak, it did nothing to help clean 
up. She said that BG attended to inspect the items that were damaged before advising Miss 
A to throw them away, which she did.  Miss A felt that BG were responsible for the damage 
caused to her property and her possessions, so she raised a complaint. 
In its final response, BG said that it wasnt responsible for the damage to the items nor to her 
belongings and that Miss A should contact her home insurers to make a claim. It did offer to 
pay for the cost of a replacement microwave, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss A wasnt happy about the outcome and referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator ultimately upheld her complaint. He said that BG hadnt been able to provide 
enough evidence to show that the engineer carried out the repair properly. Nor that the water 
was drained off and contained whilst the repair was being carried out. So, he concluded that 
the leak was in part, caused during the second engineers visit. 
He said that BGs offer to replace the microwave was fair and he recommended that BG pay 
£100 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. Finally, he said that the £1,000 that 
Miss A sought for the damaged items, were not properly corroborated and so he couldnt 
fairly ask BG to reimburse Miss A for this or any additional cost to her damaged wall and 
floor.
BG accepted our investigators view. 
Miss A didnt accept his view regarding her damaged possessions. She said that she had 
provided BG with a full inventory of the items that had been damaged. Also, that BG had 
attended her home and took photos of the damaged items and told her to throw those items 
away (as many were electrical, and water damaged) which she did. And as she didnt have 
the items, nor could she take photos of them, she felt that she had properly substantiated the 
loss. She believed that BG were also responsible for the damage caused to her wall and 
floor. So, Miss A asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Miss A, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The first engineer that BG sent to assess the leak concluded that a plumbing engineer would 
be needed as there was no leak from the central heating system. Miss A describes the leak 
as very minimal (which is corroborated by the first engineers notes). There was no mention 
on the job notes that the stop cock was closed and the pipework fully drained. So I think its 
more likely than not that the initial leak was very minimal as Miss A described. 
The second engineer attended. I asked BG to provide me with a further report to see what 
work the engineer conducted whilst he was there. BG couldnt provide this further report as it 
said that its engineer couldnt recall the job. The only report that was provided said: no 
fresh water available. Cut out leaking pipe and fitted section of copper pipe to stop leak. 
Miss A said that after the second engineer had left, she found that there was a significant 
amount of water and she concluded that as it was this engineer who had repaired the 
section of pipework and replaced it, he failed to turn off the water, so he caused the second 
leak. In the absence of any other evidence from BG to the contrary, Im persuaded by Miss 
As account that the additional leak, happened during the second engineers visit. 
I have been provided with a photograph that shows the damaged microwave. BG had 
agreed to reimburse its cost as a goodwill gesture. But Miss A would like £1,000 for the 
belongings she said were also damaged. 
Miss A said that those items were photographed and inspected by BG, who told her to 
dispose of them as many were deemed unsafe. Miss A said that she did as directed by BG 
and didnt think to photograph the damaged items as she believed that BG had accepted 
liability. But I think that Miss A would still have the responsibility to prove her loss either by 
taking photographs of the damaged items or providing evidence of their cost. 
BG was asked to provide any report or photographs taken during the inspection. As well as 
any email correspondence between the parties about the inspection. It said that there was 
no report or any other information that it could provide regarding the inspection. But it did 
provide some photos taken by its contractor.
Miss A provided email correspondence that showed that BG had arranged an inspection to 
take place, as well as an inventory of the items damaged. But despite this, I dont think Miss 
A has provided enough evidence to substantiate the loss. And Ill explain why. There was no 
evidence supplied of the value of each damaged item. There were no photographs that 
could show that that items were irreparably damaged.  I understand that Miss A said that BG had taken photos but she still had the responsibility to evidence her loss, which I dont think 
she did here. In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable for BG to reimburse £1,000 
for the items but as it offered to reimburse the cost of the damaged microwave, I think this is 
fair.
I have next considered the damage to the floor and walls. Miss A was asked to provide 
evidence to corroborate the damage, for example an assessors report. This hasnt been 
provided. 
BG said that following its contractors visit and inspection, the floor and walls were found to 
be the same quality as the unaffected floor and walls. Due to the lack of evidence to show 
that the walls and floor were damaged as a result of the leak, I dont think its reasonable for 
BG to cover the cost of the repair. If Miss A can supply proof of damage to the walls and 
floor, then this could be considered by BG. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think its fair for BG to reimburse Miss A for the cost of the microwave. I have no 
doubt that this experience would have been distressing not least as Im told that Miss A had 
to clean up all the mess that occurred following the escape of water. For this, I think its 
reasonable that BG pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse the cost of Miss As microwave.
Pay £100 by way of apology for the trouble and upset caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman