DRN-2297867
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In February 1995 Ms S filled in a dual credit card application that shed received in the post 
and at the same time she applied for PPI. 
Barclaycard issued her with two credit cards and the policy protected her card monthly 
repayments if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with our adjudicator and asked 
for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
Ms S mainly complained that it wasnt ever explained to her that having PPI was optional  
she thought that the PPI box was pre-ticked and she had to take it out. She also told us that 
she didnt need PPI to protect her card repayments as she had good sick pay through work 
and savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons.
I think that Barclays made Ms S aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. 
It doesnt look to me like any of the options on the application form had been pre-printed. 
And in any event, the application form Ms S completed had Yes and No PPI options. So 
Ms S wouldve known it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. 
And I can see the Yes option is marked with a tick on the form Ms S signed. So, I think its 
likely she decided at the time that PPI would be useful and she chose to add it to her 
Barclaycard accounts.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have PPI. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about 
what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Barclays told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Ms S took 
out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use later  so I think its likely 
that in all main respects the policy that Ms S took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Ms S wasnt eligible for the policy. And although 
there were likely some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Ms Ss case when she took out PPI. So, I dont think having more information about things 
the policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. 
Ms S had good sick pay entitlement through work. She told us that she wouldve had full sick 
pay for 6 months followed by 6 months' half pay from her employer. 
But the policy couldve paid more than her minimum card repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Ms S 
mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as she wouldve only 
had half her usual pay after 6 months off work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Ms Ss card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
The policy couldve cleared the balances outstanding on her Barclaycards at the start of the 
claim if she claimed successfully for the full 12 months. 
I dont know if Ms S wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of savings 
shes mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful.  
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Ms S if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
So I still think that think the policy offered her useful cover. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost or what it might pay out if 
Ms S made a claim. But, even if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually 
cost on a month to month basis, Ms S chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  
so she seems to have wanted it. 
The policy appears to have been affordable for her when she took it out  and she couldve 
cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed or she didnt want to keep paying for it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Ms S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation. 
And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-sold.
But Barclays said it would pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms S, 
that was unfair. To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also 
pay back to Ms S any extra interest she paid because of that. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay back to Ms S the extra she paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Ms S 8%* simple interest on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. (And if it has already done this then 
Barclays doesnt need to pay Ms S anything more).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman