DRN-2083751
The complaint
Mr W has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him more than £4,500 for a 
number of transactions which he didnt authorise.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr W was abroad with a group of friends on an organised stag weekend. He 
went out drinking on 13 July which was their final night before a morning flight back home. 
He and friends went to a strip club which had been organised by their tour company. 
Mr W held both a Barclays current account and a Barclaycard credit card. He used the latter 
rarely. The previous transactions had happened 10 months previously. He also didnt check 
his online banking too frequently. He had checked his current account status about a week 
before his trip abroad.
Mr W used his debit card for drinks in the bar. This was for €22. He then switched to his 
credit card and at 22:31 Barclays declined a transaction for £215.80. They texted Mr W to 
ask if hed made that transaction. He responded by texting Y back to Barclays. They texted 
back to say he could continue to use his card. A transaction for £215.80 was then approved 
at 22:34. Mr W doesnt dispute he entered his PIN authorising this transaction 
Following this transaction a further nine transactions were made on Mr Ws Barclaycard over 
a three hour period until his card kept being declined. Mr Ws credit limit was £5,000. 
Barclays declined four transactions for lack of funds.
Mr W has told us  and Barclays  that his drink had been spiked and he had limited 
memory of what happened that evening. He did know hed gone to a separate, and possibly 
locked room, for a dance with one of the women at the club. Hed thought this was going to 
cost him €40. He denied making any further transactions with his card or being able to 
remember exactly what had happened or how he got back to his hotel. Nothing similar 
happened to any of his friends who left the club without him.
Barclays didnt believe Mr Ws story. They felt hed switched to using his credit card to make 
sure he had enough money to buy the services being offered to him. They thought hed 
authorised all the transactions.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She could see authentication hadnt been 
completely done by PIN. She also believed Mr Ws testimony was credible, although she 
noted that transactions had been spaced out. She couldnt see why Mr W would willingly 
spend £5,000 when he was on a limited income and generally careful with his finances. She 
asked Barclays to refund £4,619.12 to Mr Ws credit card account, as well as pay Mr W £60 
in compensation.
Barclays disagreed with this conclusion. They felt this pattern didnt match what was 
normally seen when a collusive merchant was involved. Theyve asked an ombudsman to 
consider Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I'll explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations and the Consumer Credit Act are the relevant pieces of 
law here. These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise 
payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do often apply but not specifically here 
where Mr Ws credit card was used. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in 
rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer 
made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we 
generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr W have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 24 April 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my 
decision. I can reassure Mr W and Barclays Ive considered the file thoroughly, including 
what Barclays said following our investigators view.
The following summarises what Ive considered in coming to my conclusion:
Theres no dispute Mr W was abroad in a bar on 13-14 July. There is a lower-value 
transaction for drinks as I'd expect to see in cases like these. This was completed 
using Mr Ws debit card. 
I dont doubt Mr W now believes he was drugged, as that's the only explanation he 
can think of to explain how the transactions may have taken place. But its just as 
likely hed drunk way too much. Theres no medical evidence to show what may have 
caused Mr Ws condition but Ive got no issue with what hes told us in general terms. 
Hes also confirmed he didnt feel right for a few days afterwards and certainly was 
unsure of what had happened when he reported his card lost to Barclays on 14 July.
Mr W doesnt dispute entering his card and PIN into a terminal for the dance he was 
expecting to cost him €40. He was also given a beer and a shot around this time. He 
didnt notice what price he was being charged and has told us he was being 
distracted by the women in the room. I dont think thats surprising in the 
circumstances. 
I agree with our investigator here though that as Mr W entered his PIN  regardless 
of the amount he thought he was agreeing to pay  he was consenting under the law 
to that transaction. This was the transaction authenticated at 22:34.
Mr W has no memory of what happened after this nor can he recall how he got back 
to his hotel. Barclays has questioned this. I think its likely Mr W was turfed out of the 
club when his card kept getting declined for lower and lower amounts. He found his way back to the hotel to pick up any luggage and his friends helped him get to the 
airport.
Mr W did not have his credit card when he came to sufficiently to think about what 
may have happened.
There are some inconsistencies between the stories Mr W has told us and Barclays. 
Thats not whats driven my decision here but Ive certainly taken this into account.
Barclays has suggested that any collusion by the merchant wouldnt normally mean 
the pattern of transactions would be spaced by 15-20 minutes. If I was being flippant 
Id suggest theyd never seen Hustlers but more seriously I think the thing about 
fraud patterns is they change regularly and there is no guarantee only one pattern 
exists.
Barclays has also told us they believed when Mr W turned to his credit card for 
further use, this was because he was expecting to spend considerably more than the 
amount in his current account. Ive seen nothing to back up this assertion.
Like our investigator, I believe a key factor is Mr Ws testimony. Nearly £5,000 was 
spent. This is a considerable amount of money. I cant see why Mr W would willingly 
spend that amount  or in fact what hed be purchasing for that amount  when hes 
on a limited income. It seems unlikely that hed be relying on Barclays agreeing to 
pay him this amount back.
Barclays has drawn our attention to the reputable travel agent who organised this 
break for Mr W and his friends. Theyve argued they wouldnt be sending customers 
somewhere that may be ripping off its customer base. Im sure they wouldnt be 
sending customers, who were looking for a cheap and cheerful break, to somewhere 
thats charging £5,000 for three hours entertainment either. Barclays would argue 
that this was Mr Ws choice but I dont believe the facts support this.
The other aspect that is key for me is how these transactions were authenticated. 
Theres no dispute the genuine card was always used. In addition Barclays has said 
authentication was done by a mix of PIN and signature. Their original audit 
information only showed signature authentication but Barclays then provided a 
further version showing a mix of authentication. I have to say I find this surprising.
Barclays didnt approach the club in question to verify what was purchased at the 
time. I appreciate they had no grounds to chargeback the transactions as fraud 
because they were completed using the genuine card along with additional 
authentication. But it was still open to them to have raised a merchant dispute about 
what was bought. This has meant potentially valuable evidence doesnt exist. So, for 
example, no signature check could be done.
Even if Mr W is lying to us  and I have considered this possibility  and he was 
actually buying additional services in the club, Im still confused why these would all 
be different amounts. The transactions look odd. Transactions happen at roughly 15-
20 minute intervals after 22:34 (which wouldnt be massively surprising if Mr W was 
buying something other than alcohol). But each transaction was for a slightly different 
and rising amount until transactions started to be declined. This looks deliberate to 
me and would be highly unusual when drinks  or even services  often cost exactly 
the same time and again.
Having considered all the evidence and on balance, I dont believe theres enough to show 
Mr W authorised these transactions. There seems to have been plenty of opportunity for a 
repeated compromise to have taken place without Mr Ws knowledge as demonstrated 
above.
Putting things right
Having decided the transactions were not made or authorised by Mr W, Barclays will need to 
put things right.  Mr W has told us himself that he did enter his PIN for the first transaction. So as explained 
above, I wont be asking Barclays to refund that amount.  
However that means £4,619.12 needs to stop being charged to Mr Ws credit card account. 
Since the transactions were debited in July 2019 I can see Mr W has been making minimum 
repayments on his card to limit any damage to his credit record. I believe more than £222.25 
has been repaid so Barclays will need to refund any excess to Mr W along with 8% simple 
interest from the dates Mr W paid the money.
Any interest and charges related to the disputed transactions will also need to be removed 
from Mr Ws account.
Our investigator awarded £60 compensation to Mr W as well. Im going to increase that to 
£150. This must have caused Mr W a good deal of worry and concern.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Write off £4,619.12 worth of disputed transactions which were charged to Mr Ws 
Barclaycard account;
Remove any interest and charges related to those transactions;
Refund any payments Mr W has made to his account over and above £222.25;
Add 8% simple interest to those payments from the dates of the direct debits to the 
date of settlement; and
Pay Mr W £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman