DRN-2960607
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the premium 
for his motor insurance policy when he moved house and changed job. Hes also unhappy 
about the way it dealt with his complaint.
The policy was administered by another business. But Advantage was the insurer, and was 
named on the certificate of insurance.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy for his motorbike. He paid the premium for the policy 
in full up-front. Around half way through the policy year, he moved house. He phoned 
Advantage and told it about his up-coming move. Advantage quoted a premium for the 
remainder of the policy year that was considerably higher than the original premium.
A few days later, Mr S spoke to Advantage again. He explained that once hed moved, his 
motorbike would be kept in a locked garage. He also explained that hed be starting a new 
job. Advantage issued another quote, taking into account this additional information. The 
new quote was around half the previous one, but it was still significantly more expensive 
than Mr Ss existing policy for the remainder of the policy term.
Mr S is dissatisfied that Advantage quoted such a significant increase in his policy premium. 
He considers that it left him with no realistic choice but to move to another insurer, and hes 
unhappy that this meant that he didnt build up any no-claims discount during the time that 
he was insured with Advantage.
Hes also told us hes unhappy with the fact that Advantages agent set up two separate 
complaints to deal with his concerns, which he says was confusing. And he believes it was 
unfair to suggest that he should apply for a policy as a new customer. He says the 
experience left him feeling unvalued.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Advantage on 15 July 2021. I said:
Advantage calculated the risk it considered that Mr S presented as a policyholder when he 
originally took out his policy, and it charged him a premium to reflect that risk. When he 
moved house and changed jobs, it considered the overall risk to be higher.
We generally think its fair for an insurer to recalculate the premium part-way through a 
policy if a policyholder has a significant change in their circumstances. This is known as a 
mid-term adjustment. But where an insurer decides to make a mid-term adjustment, we can 
look at whether its calculated any change in premium fairly.
Im satisfied that Mr Ss change of address amounted to a significant change in his 
circumstances from an insurance point of view. Advantage recalculated the premium to 
reflect the change in risk. Advantage has provided records from which Im satisfied that it 
regarded Mr Ss new address as a significantly higher risk than the address hed lived at 
when he originally took the policy out. I cant say that this was unfair.
When Mr S spoke to Advantage again a few days later, he provided details of the new job he 
was going to be starting, and told it hed be keeping the motorbike in a locked garage. These 
factors, combined, resulted in a significant reduction in the quote.
The first quote that Advantage gave Mr S took into account his new address, but not his new 
job, or the fact that hed be keeping the motorbike in a locked garage, as opposed to a 
driveway, where hed previously kept it. The second quote took all three factors into account. 
Its apparent that between them, the new job and the way the motorbike was to be stored 
had the effect of reducing the quote significantly. I would expect the fact that the motorbike 
was going to be kept in locked storage would have led to a decrease in the quote. But I cant 
be sure how each factor contributed to the reduction.
Weve asked Advantage for a breakdown of how it calculated Mr Ss new premium. But its 
explained that because he didnt go ahead with the quotes, it no longer has the underwriting 
data it used to generate them. I dont think thats unreasonable, given that Mr S didnt accept 
the quote. But without the data from the time, I cant know whether the change in job also 
affected the quote, and if it did, whether it made it higher or lower than it would otherwise 
have been. And Im unable to say that Advantage unfairly increased Mr Ss premium.
Im satisfied that the premium refund Advantage gave Mr S was fair and in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy. But its clear that cheaper cover was available. Mr S has 
paid significantly less for insurance with his new insurer than Advantage quoted to carry on 
insuring him after his move. In situations like this, where the increase in premium results in a 
significantly higher cost than the consumer would have to pay to get cover elsewhere, Id 
expect the insurer to waive any cancellation or administration fees and refund unused 
premium. So Advantage should refund the £35 cancellation fee it charged Mr S.
But Im not satisfied that I can reasonably require Advantage to do more than that. I cant 
fairly hold it responsible for the fact that Mr S didnt build up any no-claims discount during 
the time that he was insured with it. Mr S would have been entitled, under the policy terms, 
to a no claims discount if he didnt make any claims during the full year that the policy was 
originally due to cover. But Mr S cancelled the policy before the year was complete. I can 
understand why he did so, but Ive explained that Im not satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably when it increased his premium. So 
I dont find that theres anything that Advantage needs to do in respect of this part of Mr Ss 
complaint. Ultimately, it was for Mr S to decide whether to continue with the policy with the 
new premium or to cancel the policy and take out a new one.
Its true that Advantages agent set up two separate complaints to deal with Mr Ss concerns. 
The first dealt with the additional premium that Mr S was quoted, and the second concerned 
Mr Ss dissatisfaction with the refund and the fact that he hadnt built up any no claims 
discount during the part-year he was insured with Advantage. But I can see how this 
happened and I dont think that it was unreasonable to set up a second complaint to deal 
with different issues. Nor do I think it likely that it would have caused Mr S any significant 
inconvenience.I dont consider that Advantages agent was unfair in suggesting that Mr S apply for a policy 
as a new customer. I acknowledge that Mr S says the experience left him feeling unvalued. 
And I can understand his frustration at the thought that Advantage might have been willing to 
offer him a lower premium as a new customer, but that the clock would effectively have been 
re-zeroed as far as accumulating a no-claims discount was concerned. But Im satisfied that 
the suggestion was made in a genuine attempt to help resolve the situation. It was for 
Advantage to decide the terms on which it was willing to continue to offer insurance to Mr S 
after his move. In the end, Mr S chose to insure elsewhere.
Further submissions
Mr S and Advantage have both commented on my provisional decision.
Mr S says, in summary:
He still doesnt see why the cost of insurance would be significantly cheaper for a new 
customer, given the same risk.
His change of job was technically a transfer. Following the move, he worked for the same 
company, and on the same terms as he did before he moved. His job has no bearing on 
motorcycling. Advantage wasnt able to record his job accurately on its systems. So if it 
viewed his job as carrying a risk loading, that was unfair too.
Despite the policy terms, he still feels he should receive a pro-rata refund of the policy 
premium. He accepts that Advantage provided cover for the time his policy was in force. 
But he doesnt think its fair that he should be charged for the period of roughly six 
months of the original policy term that remained after the policy was cancelled.
Advantage isnt happy with my provisional view that it should refund the cancellation fee. Its 
pointed out that Mr S cancelled the policy after the 14-day cooling off period. And under the 
policy terms, this meant that it was entitled to charge a cancellation fee of £35. Its referred 
to the relevant terms in the policy booklet, and says the information is also included in the 
welcome pack sent to policyholders. It says that nowhere in the policy terms does it state 
that the cancellation fee wouldnt be charged if a change of details resulted in a higher 
premium.
Advantage says Mr S wasnt forced to cancel the policy, and had all the information to 
enable him to make an informed decision. The policy terms included wording warning the 
policyholder that if they made changes to the policy, additional costs may be incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not satisfied that theres a good reason to depart from the findings I set 
out in my provisional decision. Ill deal with each partys comments in turn, starting with what 
Mr S has said.
I understand Mr Ss frustration that Advantage might have been willing to offer him a better 
deal if hed applied for a policy as a new customer after his move. But it is for insurance 
companies to decide on what terms they are willing to insure. And Advantage was entitled to 
offer favourable terms to new customers. This is a common practice and while I can 
understand that it may have made Mr S feel under-valued, I dont find that Advantage did 
anything wrong in this respect.As I explained in my provisional decision, because Mr S didnt accept the quotes from 
Advantage after his move, it didnt keep hold of the underwriting data it based them on. And 
as I said, I dont think thats unreasonable. I understand Mr Ss point that his job was 
technically a transfer. And I realise that hes dissatisfied that there was no exact match for 
his occupation on Advantages systems. But without the underwriting data, I have no way of 
knowing how his job affected the premium he was quoted.
Advantage has explained that under the system that it applied when Mr S had his policy, 
cancellation refunds were worked out on a set percentage basis because its common for 
motor cyclists to insure their vehicle for the warmer months and then cancel. This has the 
potential to leave Advantage out of pocket. The refund structure also encourages riders to 
continue the policy for the year and earn no claims discount. Even though Mr S may not 
have been a seasonal rider, Im satisfied that Advantages explanation of its reason for 
giving non-pro-rata refunds is reasonable. And I cant fairly interfere with its decision to give 
Mr S a limited refund, in line with the policy terms.
Turning finally to Advantages objection to refunding the cancellation fee, I accept that the 
policy document set out clearly what would happen if Mr S cancelled the policy. And I accept 
that this included the charging of a cancellation fee of £35 and a non-pro-rata refund. Ive 
explained that Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair of Advantage to calculate the premium refund 
as it did. But in this case, the difference between the premium Advantage was proposing to 
charge Mr S for continuing to insure him after his move, and the premium that he was able to 
find elsewhere was so significant that I remain of the view that it was unfair of Advantage to 
deduct a cancellation charge from the refund.
Putting things right
Advantage should refund the cancellation fee of £35 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to refund the cancellation fee of £35 to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman