DRN-3386904
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W took one loan with Everyday Lending. It was approved for him on 22 May 2019 for 
£3,100 repayable over 36 months at £247.09 each month. The total charge for credit was 
£5,795.24 which meant that the total amount to repay was £8,895.25. 
Everyday Lending responded to Mr Ws complaint and said that it used an average monthly 
income of £2,924.66 and had calculated, using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data, 
Mr Ws living expenses. It added a buffer figure to that as well which it describes as a sum 
to accommodate unexpected minor changes to those costs. Everyday Lending described 
Mr Ws approximate monthly expenditure  as £1,687.49 and so it had calculated Mr W had 
a disposable income of £990.08. 
Everyday Lending said it carried out a credit search and looked at a payslip and reviewed 
up to two months bank statements from a customers primary bank account. It also says 
that it knew Mr W was going to use the capital of the loan to consolidate some of his payday 
loans and other credit. 
Mr W has said that he did not appreciate the interest to be paid; he thinks that Everyday 
Lending used his salary plus overtime income rather than his basic salary; and Mr W has 
referred to his addiction problems and has said this was overlooked despite being apparent 
in the bank statements he submitted to Everyday Lending when applying for the loan. Mr W 
also says he felt pressured into taking the loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and wrote to Everyday Lending twice to 
explain why she considered that the loan had been lent to Mr W irresponsibly. Everyday 
Lending disagreed and sent reasons why, all of which I have reviewed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr W  would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks 
have shown that Mr W  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr W and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr W. In practice this meant that Everyday Lending  had to ensure that making the 
payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr Ws loan application was for a relatively large amount of £3,100 and as Everyday Lending 
would have known, the full amount to repay was just under £8,900 and Mr Ws indebtedness 
was to be spread over three years. So, Id consider that a full financial review of Mr Ws 
finances was the proportionate level of checks Id expect to see.
In relation to Mr Ws income, I know that Everyday Lending had copies of Mr Ws bank 
statements and his April 2019 salary was around £2,500 and the May 2019 payslip  a copy 
of which I have seen (partially legible) - does show a basic salary plus separate amounts for 
at least three lots of overtime. So, I do think that Mr Ws overtime was known by Everyday 
Lending at the time the loan was approved. 
Ive seen recent and earlier submissions from Everyday Lending which suggest the checks it 
did were proportionate but I disagree when it used ONS data to calculate the living expenses 
when it had two months of bank statements from Mr W giving it the opportunity to do a 
detailed income and expenditure analysis. And I do not consider it fair or reasonable that Everyday Lending thinks that asking for two 
months worth of statements from Mr W and then reviewing a shorter period was right, which 
is what Everyday Lending has suggested to our adjudicator.
It was clear from Mr Ws situation that he had multiple loans from high cost lenders as well 
as a history of taking those loans which was information Everyday Lending had from its 
credit search results. He had current debt commitments and he was requiring more debt. 
The bank statements made it clear that Mr W was a gambler (accepted by Mr W) and the 
bank statement evidence which showed that Mr W regularly took loans from other high-cost 
lenders likely meant that these loans were feeding his gambling. And Id expect a 
professional lender to have appreciated that likelihood. Even if Everyday Lending disagrees 
with this, I do know that it had enough information to consider it an issue to investigate. 
I have seen an email exchange between Mr W and Everyday Lending in which it accepted 
that it knew of his gambling at the time he applied and its response to Mr W was: however 
the total amount of the gambling does not exceed your disposable income.
I have demonstrated from the information I gained from Everyday Lending and which I have 
set out in the what happened section of this decision, combined with the facts gathered 
from the bank statements, that the disposable income Everyday Lending used was based 
on ONS data and not on the actual information it had on its own files during Mr Ws 
application process. And so, I do not consider that Everyday Lending did carry out a full 
financial review for what was, in effect, an £8,900 repayment obligation. 
And for Everyday Lending then to use the same disposable income figure against which to 
judge whether the gambling transactions were acceptable to it or not seems illogical and not 
thorough enough when it had the clear information before it at the time it was approving the 
loan from which it could calculate everything with precision. 
As for the loan consolidation point raised by Everyday Lending  I have not seen enough to 
show me that it advanced the capital funds to Mr W knowing that he was going to repay the 
other loans and/or I have not seen any evidence to show that it had planned to make 
arrangements to pay down those other loans before advancing the capital to Mr W. And so 
without that important element in place, I do not think it satisfied itself that Mr W was going to 
do that debt consolidation and so I do not think that Everyday Lending should have lent to 
Mr W with that element absent.
And I have enough information from Mr Ws financial details to recognise that Mr W was not 
going to be able to repay this loan easily and potentially without having to obtain further 
credit to do so. Id consider that to have been contrary to the regulations relating to 
responsible lending and so I uphold Mr Ws complaint in relation to the irresponsible lending. 
On Mr Ws point about the interest being high  that is a commercial element of the lending 
business and I am not able to make any findings relating to how a financial business comes 
to make those commercial decisions. So, I make no finding on this point. 
As for Mr Ws point that he felt pressurised into taking the loan, Ive no evidence that 
Everyday Lending exerted any pressure. And so, I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Mr W has received the £3,100 capital and its right that he repays that sum. I think Everyday 
Lending should:remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr W as payments towards the capital sum of £3,100;
if Mr W has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable arrangement for the balance to be paid to it by Mr W. In these 
circumstances it seems that Mr W has paid more than the £3,100 capital and so 
I doubt this is required; 
remove any negative payment information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have set out in the putting things right part of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman