DRN-3333513
The complaint
Mr G says Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) irresponsibly lent to him. He says he wasnt properly informed 
about the contract. He also says that Oplo knew he was having repayment problems with his 
existing debts and it sold the loan knowing this. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Oplo provided to Mr G. In January 2016 Mr G borrowed 
£10,000 from Oplo. He was due to make 60 repayments of £331.82. He would repay a total 
of £19,909.20. Mr G is still repaying the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint. She thought Oplo shouldnt have given Mr G the 
loan. This was because, even though the loan was for debt consolidation, Mr G would also 
still be repaying a significant amount to all of his creditors. So, he would be unlikely to be 
able to afford the repayments. 
Oplo disagreed. It said that it made proportionate checks and these showed that the loan 
was affordable. 
As no agreement has reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Oplo, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr G would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Oplo did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G and that as 
a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Oplo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked Mr G about his income and 
expenditure. It also verified some of the information Mr G provided about his income and his 
other creditors. using a credit reference agency. 
Based on the term of the loan and the repayment amounts, I think Oplo should have fully 
reviewed Mr Gs finances. I dont think its checks went as far as this. However, as our 
adjudicator said, I dont have enough information to say what Oplo wouldve seen had it 
made further checks.  
Ive gone on to closely look at the information Oplo obtained before lending to see if it was 
right for Oplo to think Mr G could sustainably repay this loan. 
Oplo recorded that Mr G had an income of £2,200. His general expenditure was recorded as 
being around £1,000. So, before any debt repayments, Mr G had around £1,200 of spare 
income.  
Its been established that Mr G already had a large amount of other credit before he took this 
loan. He had a mortgage of just over £70,000. He had other high cost credit loans of around 
£17,500. And he had credit cards, and other revolving credit accounts, that had balances of 
around £17,000. Mr G had taken the Oplo loan to consolidate three of his outstanding credit 
cards which had combined balances of around £9,000. I do accept that this consolidation may have led to Mr G paying a lower amount each month. 
But its not clear to me if this would the most cost-effective way to repay his debt. There 
would be a real chance here that the interest on the new high cost loan would turn out to be 
higher than the credit card interest it replaced.  
And Mr G still had a lot to repay each month. This is because, even if I use 5% of the 
remaining credit card balances, or 3% as Oplo thinks it is reasonable to do, then Mr G would 
still be paying not far short of £1000 a month to all of his credit. This is a very high amount of 
his income and its likely that Mr G would run into problems later on because of this.
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that the information Oplo had makes it safe to say 
Mr G would be able to repay enough of his existing debts for this loan to have made a 
difference. Put as simply as I can, he already owed too much for this new loan to do this. It 
looks like his financial situation would have remained precarious after this loan. 
So, I dont think that Oplo could say with any degree of confidence that taking the new loan 
would allow Mr G to make the loan repayments sustainably. And I dont think it was 
responsible to lend. 
Ive also thought about whether Oplo acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
But Oplo needs to put things right as I think it irresponsibly lent this loan.
Putting things right
Oplo now needs to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mr G as payments towards the capital amount of 
£10,000.
If Mr G has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Oplo should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr G.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put things 
right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman