DRN-2929802
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) 
undervalued their car when handling a claim on their joint motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident that wasn't his fault. Direct Line said the car he shares with 
Mrs B wasn't economical to repair. It ended up valuing the car at £5,506, having instructed 
an engineer to give a report, together with consulting recognised motor valuation guides. 
Mr and Mrs B didn't think Direct Lines valuation was fair, considering the non-standard 
features they paid extra for when first purchasing the car. Together with the additional 
money they spent maintaining the vehicle shortly before the collision. 
Direct Line said it wouldnt increase its offer, having taken all of the necessary factors into 
account. As Mr and Mrs B thought this was unfair, they referred their complaint to this 
service. When doing so, they provided research and arguments for why the cars value 
should be adjusted to reflect the differences in age, mileage and level of optional extras. 
Overall, they were confident the car was worth more than £5,506. 
Upon reviewing everything, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied 
that the industrys main car valuation tools had given an accurate valuation of the car, taking 
account of its condition. So, it was reasonable for Direct Line to have suggested an offer in 
keeping with these recognised guides and it didnt need to increase the £5,506 any further. 
Mr and Mrs B dont agree. Theyve submitted that its unreasonable for Direct Line to place 
such a high reliance on the valuation guides, considering the condition and spec of their car. 
Because Mr and Mrs B dont agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its important to point out that this services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an 
individual vehicle is. When deciding this case, my role isnt to specifically value Mr and      
Mrs Bs car. Rather, what Ive considered is whether Direct Line has applied the terms of 
their policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
According to Mr and Mrs Bs policy, Direct Line had to pay the market value of the car, less 
the applicable excess. Contractually speaking, I see no reason why it couldnt reach this 
settlement amount using the recognised valuation guides. And its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. So, in this 
case, Id need to be persuaded that it was unreasonable for Direct Line to adopt this 
approach, and/or there was a particular reason why it needed to go against normal practice. 
The valuation the guides generate are based on the advertised prices of similar cars with 
similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. Its fair to say that they capture an 
extensive amount of data  which is why they are so often used by insurers. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B think this valuation is unfair, because they say the guides 
dont reflect the fact that their particular car had a significant number of optional extras and 
was in excellent condition. However, the guides do give an option to adjust the cars value by 
considering optional extras. This allows for non-standard equipment to be accounted for, 
which may or may not add to the value of the car at the time of the loss. 
Upon reviewing the information input into these tools, Im not led to believe that any key 
features were missed or incorrectly entered. The car is one that the guides are able to 
reference with reasonable accuracy. And the adjustments have been made to account for all 
of the optional extras. With this in mind, Im satisfied theres an accurate valuation available 
using the guides  so Direct Line did not act unfairly in using them here.  
Whats more, Direct Lines settlement considerably exceeds the average valuation across 
the different guides used. Its agreed to offer this on the basis that this will provide for the 
condition of the car at the time of the loss. So, although Mr and Mrs B have highlighted that 
theyd paid around £800 towards the maintenance of the car shortly before the accident, Im 
not convinced that Direct Line needs to increase its offer under these circumstances. 
To conclude, I can appreciate that its important to Mr and Mrs B to be given a fair 
settlement. But overall, Im satisfied Direct Line has followed a fair process in reaching its 
valuation. Ultimately, it followed the standard industry approach here  and I dont think Ive 
seen enough to say it was unreasonable for it to do so for this claim. It follows that I do not 
require it to do anything further for this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman