DRN-2929029
The complaint
Ms M says that a travel system she bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because she paid 
for it using credit provided by Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRGCS), she says 
it is liable to meet her claim.
What happened
In April 2020 Ms M bought a baby travel system through the Argos Direct website. The 
system could be configured for various uses  as a travel cot, a buggy, a car seat and so on. 
Ms M paid for it using credit provided by HRGCS, a company in the same group as Argos 
Direct.
Ms M was not happy with the system. Specifically, she said that the colours did not match, 
the brake would apply itself and she could not fit the car seat in her car. She tried to return it 
but was unable to arrange a collection; Argos Direct would not accept a return instore 
because the item had been ordered online. By the time Ms M was able to contact Argos 
Direct, it said that she was too late to return the item. Matters were further complicated by 
the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms M referred the matter to HRGCS and then to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered what had happened. She was however not satisfied that HRGCS was contacted 
within the time that Ms M would have been eligible for a refund and did not recommend that 
it do any more to resolve the complaint. Ms M did not accept the investigators findings and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I agreed with the investigators overall conclusions but, because my reasons for reaching 
those conclusions were a little different, I issued a provisional decision, so that I could 
consider any further evidence which might be provided. 
I noted that, where goods are ordered online, customers can generally return them, even if 
they are not faulty, but they have a limited time in which to do so. I commented however that 
the issue of whether Argos Direct should have accepted a return is not one on which I 
should comment.
If, however, the travel system was faulty, Ms M would be able to bring a claim against 
HRGCS, because it provided the credit with which Ms M paid for it, under arrangements it 
has with Argos Direct. I discussed the issues which Ms M had raised about the quality of the 
product. I said:
Ms M says first of all that the colours of different parts of the system did not match. She 
has supplied photographs and that does appear to be the case. However, the 
manufacturers website indicates that they are not supposed to match. Some parts of 
the system are black and (in this case) some are green. I believe that it did meet the 
description given to it.
As far as the brakes are concerned, Ms M has explained that because they are located 
on top of the rear wheels, they close unexpectedly. It is not however clear to me why 
that should be or that it means that the system is not of satisfactory quality. Indeed, Ms 
M has herself described this as a design issue, rather than something that is wrong with 
her particular item. That is, it appears that in this respect the travel system performs as 
it should.
Having looked at other reviews of the same system, it appears that the car seat part of 
the system may need some kind of adapter before it can function properly. Again, Ms M 
has not really explained or demonstrated what the problem is here. I can see that using 
an adapter with a system that a customer might expect to be easy to use is awkward 
and annoying, but again it appears that it is operating in the way it was designed to 
operate. That is, I do not believe I can fairly say that the system is not of satisfactory 
quality or is not fit for purpose.   
I invited Ms M to provide more evidence about the quality of the travel system, since much of 
the discussion about her concerns had concentrated on the returns process. Neither she nor 
HRGCS has provided any more evidence or arguments, however. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have received no further evidence in response to my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to depart from it. I am not persuaded that the travel system was not of satisfactory 
quality or that it was not fit for purpose. It also met the description given to it. I am satisfied 
therefore that HRGCS treated Ms Ms claim fairly.   
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman