DRN-3753608
The complaint
Mrs M complains HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd (HSBC) recommended a flexible with- 
profits bond which was too low risk and failed to place it in trust.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were recommended the bond in July 2001 by HSBC after receiving a payment 
from a separate policy. They understood the bond was to be placed in trust. Mr M has sadly 
passed away since the complaint was brought to our service, and Mrs M is represented in 
her complaint. The representative has said the sales letter shows the funds would have been 
invested considering the objective of capital growth and a balanced attitude to investment 
risk. He feels this means a moderate risk. It was discovered the bond had not been placed in 
trust and the bond was sold in January 2019 for £58,541. A complaint was made to HSBC.  
HSBC responded to the complaint and accepted the bond hadnt been placed in trust. They 
made an offer to put things right. This wasnt accepted and the representative contacted our 
service to ask us to investigate.  
Our Investigator agreed the bond should have been placed in trust and said HSBC should 
provide an indemnity to cover any inheritance tax (IHT) liability which may arise on second 
death, and which would have otherwise been mitigated. However, our Investigator felt the 
advice regarding the bond was suitable, including the level of risk HSBC recommended. 
 
The representative didnt agree with our Investigators view. So, the case has been passed 
to me to decide. In summary, the representative said:  
The windfall which was received was meant to be included in the existing trust and 
this is shown in HSBCs report.  
The existing trust was wound up in 2002 and had the investment been included the 
funds would have been distributed to the beneficiaries of the trust at that time. 
 
The Investigator wrongly concluded the investment would have continued. The 
majority of funds were held in the existing trust and £356,000 was distributed when 
the trust was wound up. Therefore, Mr and Mrs M would have wanted to also 
distribute this smaller proportion and there has been a loss to the beneficiaries of the 
trust because these funds were not distributed.  
It is illogical for the Investigator to conclude that HSBC suggested winding this 
original trust up in 2002 because the Investigator also suggested that HSBC as a 
trustee had no responsibility to suggest winding up any trust until the representative 
got involved in 2018.
  
HSBC should have suggested putting the windfall money into the original trust as 
cash and incorrectly put this fund into a lower risk. Mr and Mrs M had a high-risk 
attitude and HSBC confirmed this with their questionnaires. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A considerable amount of time has passed since the policy was sold. This means we dont 
have all the information from the point of sale. This isnt unusual in the circumstances. So, 
Ive relied on the information I do have which includes a copy of the Financial Planning 
Report which was sent to Mr and Mrs M on 26 June 2001 to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened on balance.  
Id also acknowledge the time the representative has put into making submissions to our 
service. I want to assure him Ive considered everything submitted by both parties. Where a 
specific point is not mentioned, its not because Ive not considered it but simply because I 
dont think I need to refer to it to reach the right decision here.  
Recommendation
  
Ive reviewed the recommendation letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs M in June 2001. The 
letter confirms Mr and Mrs M had a windfall payment from Scottish Widows. The letter 
confirmed their objective to achieve capital growth, and this was the focus of the 
recommendation because circumstances had arisen inadvertently.  
I appreciate the representatives concerns about the risk rating and I recognise the 
representative has provided a Financial Planning Report from 2013. He has confirmed this is 
the first time Mr and Mrs M were correctly assessed as having a high-risk attitude.  
However, the letter from 2001 refers to the advisor having had a conversation with Mr and 
Mrs M about the recommendation. And it confirms the recommendation took into account Mr 
and Mrs Ms balanced attitude to risk. There isnt anything to show they wanted to invest in a 
higher risk product at that time. 
 
Whilst we dont have a copy of an assessment or questionnaire from around the time the 
recommendation was made, I think this is more likely to be because of the passage of time 
rather than HSBCs failure to appropriately determine Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk. The 
reference in the letter to a balanced attitude to risk satisfies me its likely HSBC made an 
assessment here. And as Mr and Mrs M went on to accept the recommendation, Im not 
persuaded they had concerns about their rating. 
 
Ive seen a copy of the fund factsheet from December 2017 which shows the range of assets 
the fund was invested in. I can see 22% of the fund was invested in UK equities and 29% in 
overseas equities  but this would change over time. With-profits bonds use smoothing to 
even out returns over time. This means its likely they were generally seen as lower risk 
investments at the time. However, Im satisfied the bond invested in a range of assets, so I 
think it was suitable for those with a balanced attitude to risk. 
 
Overall, Im satisfied this recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. It met with their 
objective to achieve capital growth and was also appropriate for the level of risk they were 
willing to take.  
Trust 
A key part of the recommendation was that the bond would be held in trust to mitigate future 
IHT liability. Its been accepted that HSBC did not do this as agreed. I also recognise that 
this meant they did not monitor the investment and the representative has also raised 
concerns HSBC should have advised the trustees to surrender the bond sooner. 
 However, Im mindful this was a with-profits bond and as such I wouldnt expect HSBC to 
initiate a switch to a higher risk fund. Im satisfied HSBC have explained this was a hold 
product and so switching funds would undermine the benefits of such policies. For example, 
the smoothing and potential for a final bonus. Also, the evidence doesnt show me 
circumstances warranted such a switch. So, I cant conclude anything would have happened 
differently had HSBC correctly monitored the trust.
  
Existing trust 
Ive considered the representatives comments and I note he feels strongly the evidence 
shows the bond was intended to be placed in the existing trust. He goes on to say the policy 
would have then been surrendered and distributed to the beneficiaries in 2002 when that 
existing trust was wound up. Ive noted the provider states the original policy was 
surrendered in 2004. 
 
I cant say exactly what would have happened had the policy been included within the 
existing trust or whether this was possible. But on balance I dont think its likely the bond 
would have been surrendered (or the trust wound up) in 2002 (or even 2004 taking the latest 
date) because this was only within a short time of the bond being taken out.
  
The financial report doesnt indicate that Mr and Mrs M anticipated they would need access 
to the funds. The recommendation letter suggests the investment should be held for at least 
five years which would allow it to meet Mr and Mrs Ms objective for capital growth. So, Im 
unable to conclude the bond should have been included in the existing trust or would have 
been surrendered sooner had it been included in the existing trust.
  
Advice to distribute the bond 
Additionally, Im not persuaded it was for HSBC to initiate the surrender of this bond. It 
should have been placed in trust and had it been it could have been distributed at a time 
which was most suitable. Im satisfied this was ultimately a decision for Mr and Mrs M who 
had personal knowledge of the circumstances and who had also been appointed trustees. 
For these reasons, I dont agree HSBC are responsible for the capital gains tax which arose 
when the bond was surrendered.
  
Putting things right
HSBC should have put the bond in trust. The bond was surrendered in January 2019 for 
£58,541.58 which was split equally between Mr and Mrs M. This could give rise to an IHT 
liability, and this will only be known when both Mr and Mrs Ms estates are valued.  
Mrs Ms share of the bond was gifted away in January 2019, so will be a fully exempt 
transfer by January 2026. However, the representative and HSBC have accepted Mr Ms 
portion could not previously have been gifted. This is because Mr M had lost capacity and 
had a lasting power of attorney in place. The representative has let us know that since 
bringing the complaint to our service Mr M has sadly passed away. 
Ive reviewed all of the correspondence provided and this includes discussion about what the 
most suitable trust would have been to achieve Mr and Mrs Ms aim. We dont have all the 
information from the point of sale, so we dont know exactly what trust was intended to be 
used. 
 
HSBC initially made an offer based on the bond being held in a loan trust. However, they 
received correspondence from the bond provider which confirmed the trusts available would 
have been an absolute or flexible nomination trust. Therefore, theyve agreed to offer an indemnity to cover any IHT which arises from the funds because the bond wasnt placed in 
trust. 
 
Therefore, HSBC should set up an indemnity to cover the potential IHT liability that 
otherwise wouldnt have been payable had the bond been placed in trust. This must include 
any IHT liability arising on the growth of the funds which have been invested since the bond 
was surrendered. Wed expect the representatives for Mr M to be able to evidence the 
portion of IHT payable on these specific funds when it arises and to be able to provide 
information to HSBC which demonstrates they reasonably sought to mitigate the IHT 
liability. 
  
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. Its not always 
possible to say exactly what would have happened with certainty. However, this remedy is 
the most pragmatic way to put things in as close to the position they likely would have been 
had the bond been placed in trust.
  
HSBC should also pay Mrs M £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and HSBC Trust Company (UK) Ltd should put things right in 
the way outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman