DRN-3876180
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the service received from Scottish Widows Limited (Clerical 
Medical). She says she requested information about her investment bond and there was a 
long delay caused by Clerical Medical in providing this. This, Ms G said, has caused her 
investment loss as well as distress and inconvenience in not having use of the money. 
What happened
Ms G held an investment bond with Clerical Medical. Ms G appointment financial advisers to 
look into encashing it. Ms G said that it was her intention to encash all of it as she had plans 
to use the money. Ms Gs financial advisers put in a request on 5 July 2021 to obtain 
information about the bond.  Clerical Medical had dated a response to this request as 15 
July 2021. But the financial adviser had not received it until some time later on 27 August 
2021.
The information that Clerical Medical sent was not complete and there were several 
questions asked by Ms Gs financial advisers that were not answered. Ms Gs advisers said 
it was unable to give advice to her to encash the bond until it had all of the information that it 
had asked for. 
There then was a prolonged period where Ms Gs advisers were requesting this information 
from Clerical Medical. There were several occasions when this happened, and this 
continued up to 10 March 2022 when Clerical Medical sent out another pack with further 
information in it. 
Whilst this information was being sought, Ms G also complained to Clerical Medical about 
how long it was taking and explained to it the impact it was having on her. Clerical Medical 
upheld Ms Gs complaint and offered a compensation payment for £150. It says this was 
because it provided poor service on this occasion. It said it had not provided information in a 
timely manner and for this it apologised. It then sent a second response; due to the length of 
time it had taken to respond and increased its offer of compensation by an additional £400. It 
said this was due to the amount of distress and inconvenience it had caused and how it had 
handled Ms Gs request.   
Ms G did not agree to this offer or Clerical Medicals response on either occasion. She said 
she received the first cheque for £150 but had not cashed it in. Ms G has recently confirmed 
that she has cashed in a second cheque for £400. She said that she acknowledged Clerical 
Medicals offer of compensation and the reasons why it had offered it. But she said that it 
had not considered the investment losses she had made on the bond. Ms G said the bonds 
value had gone down since her advisers had initially requested information and so she had 
made investment losses because of Clerical Medicals delay. She referred her complaint to 
our service. 
An investigator from our service looked into Ms Gs complaint. He sent his view to both 
parties and felt Clerical Medicals offer of £550 compensation was fair. He said although he 
was not disputing Ms Gs intention to sell the bond, he cant say that hed seen enough 
evidence that it was a definite choice of hers to do so.
Ms G disagreed and responded with the following points:
How could she evidence her intention to withdraw money from the bond when advice 
cannot be provided to encash it due to the lack of information?
On the flipside, if advice was given to encash the bond by her advisers, and this 
resulted in a tax liability would our service have sided with her?
Will our service be in touch with Clerical Medical regarding their timescales and the 
delay it caused?
If compensation is offered regarding distress and inconvenience, is our service 
saying she should have £0 compensation for the loss in value of her bond, even 
though it took a year for Clerical Medical to provide information that she needed?
As the parties are not in agreement, Ms Gs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Gs financial advisers asked Clerical Medical for information about a bond that she held 
with it. I can see why Ms Gs advisers would want all this information, in order that it could 
properly advise her regarding encashing her bond.
Ms G has outlined what her intentions were from the outset. She wanted to encash her bond 
as she needed the money for a few reasons that she has told our service about. She had 
enlisted the services of her advisers though, to see what her best route would be. Whether 
that be to encash it as soon as possible, delay encashing it or not doing so. There was 
potentially a tax implication on Ms G and so that is why she sought advice first before doing 
anything. And this is why her advisers requested detailed information from Clerical Medical. 
Clerical Medical has admitted it provided a poor service to Ms G in dealing with the requests 
from her advisers and for being responsible for the delays in providing the information it 
required. It has said sorry and offered to pay compensation to her for this for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It has offered to pay £550 to her and I can see why. It would have 
been a stressful and prolonged period of worry for her especially as she had made plans and 
had reasons why she wanted to encash the bond in the first place. I think Clerical Medical 
was right to offer compensation for the delay for distress and inconvenience to her, and I 
think the offer is fair in the circumstances.
As Clerical Medical has taken responsibility for the delay, I dont need to make a finding on 
this. But what I do need to consider and what is left outstanding, is whether Clerical Medical 
are responsible for any investment losses incurred by Ms G but for the delay that it caused in 
providing information to her advisers. 
As I have already mentioned, Ms G outlined from the start what her intentions were. She 
wanted to encash the bond. But that doesnt necessarily mean that she wouldve done so as 
soon as her advisers had received the information it needed from Clerical Medical. That was 
only one of the options going forward. The reason Ms G sought professional advice, was so that she could be sure that she was 
making the right choices in terms of any potential tax liability. So, with this this in mind, I 
dont think I can say on the balance of probabilities that Ms G wouldve encashed the bond 
sooner. She couldve also delayed selling it, depending on what the information received 
said, and also information received about her other investments. I do appreciate that Ms G 
wanted to sell the bond, but I havent been given enough information on this occasion from 
her to demonstrate that she wouldve more likely than not sold the bond sooner. On balance, 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Clerical Medical to pay investment losses for the reason I 
have given. 
Finally, Ms G has asked whether our service is going to contact Clerical Medical about the 
delays it has caused. As an ombudsman it is my role to consider the circumstances of Ms 
Gs complaint and make findings on the balance of probabilities in order to find a resolution 
that is fair and reasonable to both parties. I do not have a regulatory or punitive remit, that is 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Im sorry that it is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms G as she would have liked 
Clerical Medical to have paid her additional compensation. But for the reasons I have given, 
I dont think this would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
Putting things right
I understand that Clerical Medical has issued a cheque for £150 but Ms G has not cashed 
this in. I have been informed that this cheque has now expired. Ms G has cashed in a 
cheque for £400. Clerical Medical needs to now do the following:
Reissue a cheque for £150 and send it to Ms G. This will make a total of £550 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, with the £400 cheque already been 
cashed by Ms G.
My final decision
Clerical Medical has already made an offer to pay £550 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman