DRN-4348874
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings 
Bank (Charter) caused delays when she tried to transfer her Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) from another provider.
What happened
On 15 November 2022, Mrs B opened a fixed rate ISA with Charter and asked them to 
transfer over her funds from her existing cash ISA provider, who Ill call Company A. Charter 
wrote to Mrs B on 23 November 2022, explaining that theyd cancelled her ISA transfer 
request as Company A had advised them that the account couldnt be found using the 
details shed provided. They asked her to contact Company A for further information and 
explained shell need to complete a new ISA transfer request form if she wished to proceed 
with the transfer.
Mrs B wrote to Charter explaining that shed checked the details shed provided to them in 
her application against her Company A bank statement, and these matched. She was 
unhappy that the failed first transfer attempt meant shed lose out financially. She enclosed a 
paper ISA transfer form along with a copy of her Company A bank statement.
Charter processed Mrs Bs ISA transfer request again, which was successfully completed on 
14 December 2022. They responded to Mrs Bs complaint explaining that Company A had 
rejected her transfer request with the reason provided as no account found. They said they 
wrote to Mrs B to advise her of this, so they were satisfied they processed her initial ISA 
transfer request correctly and in a timely manner. 
They accepted they shouldve attempted to resubmit Mrs Bs ISA transfer request again 
electronically, after shed messaged them on 6 December 2022 confirming that the details 
shed provided initially were correct. They agreed they caused some delays in the ISA 
transfer by waiting to receive Mrs Bs paper ISA transfer form. 
They explained HMRC rules allow them 15 working days to complete an ISA transfer. So, 
they backdated Mrs Bs interest from 7 December 2022, which was 16 working days from 
the date of her initial application.
Mrs B complained to Company A about the delays theyd caused by rejecting her ISA 
transfer. She explained if her initial request had been dealt with correctly, then the transfer 
couldve been completed by 23 November 2022. She said her Company A account was only 
earning 1% per annum, whereas she couldve received 4.38% per annum with Charter. She 
asked them to compensate her for the difference in lost interest between the two accounts 
for 21 days, from 23 November to 14 December 2022, which shed calculated at £5 per day.
Company A said they werent responsible for the delays in Mrs Bs ISA transfer. In summary, 
they explained that theyd taken over Company B and Company C, but they all operated on 
different systems. They said the ISA transfer request was sent incorrectly to Company A 
instead of Company A with a X1 sort code. They thought that Charter shouldve checked 
The Investing and Savings Alliance (TISA) database to successfully transfer funds, but 
instead, they sent the request under the wrong option.
The ISA transfer request under Company A is for Company A accounts and they dont hold 
information about Company B (previously) accounts on this system so they felt theyd 
correctly rejected the transfer request as the account couldnt be found. They explained that 
when Charter sent the request the second time using the Company A with X1 sort code 
option, they completed it within a day, so they dont believe the failing was on their part.
Mrs B complained to Charter again with a copy of the response shed received from 
Company A. She explained neither Charter nor Company A were taking responsibility for the 
delays. She asked Charter to reconsider their position as she said the interest theyd 
backdated, only covered a fraction of what shed lost. 
Charter explained they were aware that Company A had recently taken over Company B 
and Company C. As a result, when Mrs B had to choose an ISA provider during her 
application, she was presented with the following options for Company A:
Company A
Company A  sort codes start with X1
Company A  sort codes start with X2
Company A Personal Financial Services Limited
Company A Unit Trust Managers Limited
They explained Mrs B chose the option named Company A although the details she 
provided showed she had a sort code beginning with X1. They explained that after she 
submitted her application, the transfer request was automatically sent in line with the 
instructions shed provided.
They said that since her ISA transfer request was sent to Company A and not to the 
dedicated option provided of Company A  sort codes start with X1, so Company A rejected 
her transfer request.
They confirmed that they shouldve been more proactive in resubmitting Mrs Bs request 
using the correct ISA provider option when she contacted them on 6 December 2022. They 
had decided to act as if her transfer request had been submitted to Company A under the 
correct ISA provider on 15 November 2023. And in line with the ISA transfer guidelines 
which states that it should take no longer than 15 working days to complete the transfer, they 
paid Mrs B interest from 16 working days of the date of her initial application, which they felt 
was a fair outcome.
Unhappy with Charters response, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. She 
explained she didnt recall the fine details of the web form when she completed her 
application but confirmed all the details she entered online matched the details shed given 
on her paper form along with the Company A bank statement. She thought the paper 
application was successful because it was handled by a human, but her online attempt failed 
as it was processed by a computer. She felt there shouldve been human intervention to 
check why the transfer had failed. 
She explained if prompt checks had been made at the time of her initial transfer, there 
wouldnt have been any delays. She asked to be compensated her loss of interest which 
shed calculated to be £105.02.
Our investigator said that the delays werent caused by Charter, but instead was due to Mrs 
B selecting the wrong ISA provider when completing her application. He thought Charter had acted fairly in backdating the interest to 16 working days after her application, so he didnt 
ask them to do anything else. Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
In summary, Mrs B said that she gave Charter the correct account details both times and it 
was their responsibility to route the ISA transfer application to her existing ISA provider 
correctly. She felt if simple checks had been made, either built into the software or by human 
intervention, her initial transfer request wouldve been successful, as was the case with her 
paper transfer form. 
She told us she hadnt kept records of the individual application screens, but doesnt recall 
multiple Company A options. She says she scrolled down the list of ISA providers and 
identified Company A which is the first mentioned on the list as the ISA provider as displayed 
on her Company A bank statement. She explained she wasnt expecting to enter a sort code 
at this point as there was a box for that further along the application. She feels her choice of 
Company A was the most sensible and logical. And if there was some indication that this 
option excluded accounts with sort code starting X1 she wouldnt have chosen it.
She said there wasnt any indication or error messages to flag up that her selected option of 
Company A was incompatible with the sort code and account number she subsequently 
entered on the form. She feels that Charters offer was the minimum permitted under the 
rules and believed that if her transfer request had been handled properly from the start, it 
wouldve been completed by 23 November 2022. She didnt feel that the failure of Charters 
system to check the consistency of the data shed entered on the form should be attributed 
to her. She thought Charter shouldve been aware that Company A were still operating 
separately to Company B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charter have shown the reason for the initial ISA transfer being rejected was that the request 
was sent to ISA provider Company A instead of Company A  sort code starts with X1. 
Mrs B completed her ISA transfer application online herself. Once her request was 
submitted, Charter automatically sent the transfer request to the ISA provider shed selected 
on the form along with the account details she entered. Unfortunately, Mrs B hadnt selected 
the correct ISA provider. This meant that the first transfer request was rejected.
I appreciate Mrs Bs reasoning for selecting Company A as per the branding information on 
her bank statement. However, Charter have shown that their online application forms 
provide a number of options under Company A  including the one most appropriate to her 
ISA as her sort code starts with X1. I think the onus was on Mrs B to ensure she selected the 
correct option. 
I wouldnt expect Charter to verify the details or manually intervene on each application 
before processing it, as its not unreasonable for them to rely on the information their 
customers provide on the online applications. 
Given that there were different options for Company A, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs 
B wouldve either selected the Company A  sort code starts with X1 as her sort code 
started with X1 or if she wasnt sure which option to select, that shed have contacted 
Charter to check to ensure her application was accurate. It was Mrs Bs decision to select the option she thought was most sensible and proceed on 
that basis. It follows, I cant fairly hold Charter responsible for this. Overall, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Charter processed Mrs Bs ISA transfer request based on the information 
she had provided on the online form.
I accept Mrs B provided the same information on her paper ISA transfer form and this was 
completed successfully. Given that the paper ISA transfer forms dont have the drop down of 
different ISA providers like the online application form, the responsibility to select the correct 
provider when completing the ISA transfer following Mrs Bs paper application was on 
Charter. I wouldnt reasonably expect Mrs B to have known to write Company A  sort code 
starts with X1 on her paper application form. 
The information on which ISA provider to send the transfer request to is available to Charter 
on TISA, which Id expect them to check before submitting Mrs Bs paper ISA transfer form. 
Im pleased to see that Charter correctly selected the ISA provider when processing Mrs Bs 
paper ISA transfer form and the ISA transfer was successful at the second attempt.
Although I dont think Charter can be blamed for the initial transfer being rejected and the 
delays that were caused as a result, I agree with Charter that they shouldve done more after 
Mrs B contacted them on 6 December 2022. When Mrs B confirmed to Charter that the 
account details were the same, this shouldve prompted them to check her application and 
TISA to re-submit the transfer request to the correct ISA provider.
Charter have already backdated the interest on Mrs Bs account to start from 7 December 
2022, which was 16 working days from the date of her initial application. I think this is fair 
and reasonable as Charter have 15 working days under the rules to complete an ISA 
transfer.
I understand why Mrs B feels her ISA transfer wouldve been completed earlier by 23 
November 2022, if her initial application wasnt rejected. I agree this was a possibility, but 
theres no guarantees that this wouldve happened. This is because, as mentioned, Charter 
have up to 15 working days to process the ISA transfer as they confirmed to her when she 
requested the transfer.
Even if I thought Charter were responsible for the delays caused by her initial transfer 
request being rejected, which as I already explained, I dont think they are, Id only expect 
them to reimburse Mrs B for loss of interest from 16 working days after the date of her initial 
application. 
All things considered, Im satisfied Charter have already resolved this complaint fairly by 
back dating the interest on Mrs Bs account. So, I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman