DRN-2928885
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded him all of the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an online scam.  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Os complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr O wanted to book flights for him and his family. He explains that hed carried 
out some research and found prices ranging from around £3,000 to up to £6,000. 
He told his friend about his future travel plans. His friend recommended a travel 
company that he had recently used to book flights and passed on Mr Os details. 
Mr O was contacted by the travel company and was given a price of £2,632 for 
his flights. Unfortunately, Mr O didnt know that he was dealing with a fraudulent 
travel company. Both Mr O and his friend were duped by the same fraudster.
After discussions with the fraudster, Mr O decided to go ahead. He paid a deposit 
of £1,000 on 6 November 2019 and made a further payment of £1,632 to pay the 
balance on 8 November 2019.
The fraudsters website displayed details recognised in the travel industry such 
as ATOL and ABTA logos.
The fraudster provided Mr O with a booking reference which he says confirmed 
that tickets had been booked for him with a major airline.
When the e-tickets did not arrive as expected, Mr O tried to contact the travel 
company but without success. He then contacted the receiving bank to see if any 
funds remained. When that was unsuccessful, he contacted HSBC for help. 
When HSBC first considered the claim, it said that it would refund half of the deposit Mr O 
had paid and that it had been able to reverse the £1,632 payment. But it never paid this 
money back to Mr Os account. It later said it would credit Mr O with a 50% reimbursement 
of each payment Mr O had made and offered him £50 compensation for the delay in 
returning those funds to him. 
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr O complained. HSBC considered his complaint under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme HSBC has 
signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The 
starting position under the Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to 
refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their requisite level of care. 
In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the customer: 
 ignored an effective warning; 
 made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for legitimate 
purposes; or 
 has been grossly negligent.
HSBC issued its final response on 5 November 2020. It accepted it could have provided 
Mr O with more scam warnings before he made the payments. But it thought it was fair in the 
circumstances to refund half of the money Mr O had lost. It said he could have done more 
research to ensure he was dealing with a genuine retailer, or he could have paid by credit or 
debit card, which offer some consumer protection. 
Mr O brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with HSBCs decision.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
issued his view on 10 March 2021. He did not think HSBC had been able to establish that 
Mr O did not have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or 
business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. He pointed out that the fraudster 
gave a plausible explanation for why the tickets were cheaper than the other quotes Mr O 
had obtained. He noted that Mr O had recalled that the sale was not pressured, and that the 
fraudsters approach mirrored the kind of interactions Mr O might reasonably have expected 
to have with a genuine travel agent. Our Investigator thought the fraudsters operation was 
credible and designed deliberately to provide reassurance. He pointed out that Mr O spoke 
with two people whom he thought were employees on the phone and that the specific flights 
he thought he was booking are on a scheduled service offered by a major airline. 
The Investigator concluded HSBC ought to have reimbursed the remainder of Mr Os loss 
under the provisions of the CRM Code at the time he made his claim. He said HSBC should 
now settle the complaint by refunding the outstanding £1,316 together with interest on the 
sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the date of 
settlement. 
There was some confusion around whether HSBC had received our Investigators view. 
On 12 April 2021, it confirmed that it had and asked for an extension to the response 
deadline until 23 April 2021. 
On 28 April 2021, HSBC responded with concerns about our Investigators position. It said 
that these flights were 50% cheaper than the other quotes Mr O had obtained, and this 
indicated that the price was too good to be true. It also debated whether Mr Os friend had 
actually used the travel company successfully. It also pointed out that the travel company 
was corresponding from an email address that wasnt an official domain.  
Mr O told our Investigator hed had a range of prices when obtaining quotations and this 
price wasnt far off from some of the quotes hed obtained. He provided copies of the emails 
his friend had received to confirm hed had contact with the travel agency. At the time Mr Os 
friend told him about the travel agency, the scam had not been uncovered. Mr O said that he 
did not have any concerns about the fraudsters email address because he saw it used on 
the fraudsters website, which also had logos for relevant trade associations and protection 
schemes.Our Investigator responded to HSBC on 13 May 2021. He provided copies of the emails 
Mr Os friend had received and also highlighted the information Mr O had been given which 
appeared to link to a booking being placed for his tickets with a major airline.
HSBC responded on 19 May 2021. It pointed out that there were spelling mistakes in the 
emails from the fraudster to Mr Os friend. It also felt the purported name of the travel 
company, FlightCheckinn was suspicious. It asked our Investigator to provide it with copies 
of the emails Mr O exchanged with the fraudster. It said it would like to review them before it 
made a decision on whether it agreed or not. 
On 7 June 2021, our Investigator provided the details the bank had asked for, 
notwithstanding the fact that HSBC should have asked for this information at the time it 
investigated Mr Os claim given it is integral to understanding how the scam unfolded.
HSBC has not responded further. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may: 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by 
a party to provide information requested; 
And that 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of any further response from HSBC, it is fair 
and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and/or to take 
account of HSBCs failure to confirm whether it agrees or disagrees with our Investigators 
view. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr O ought to have been reimbursed when he 
notified HSBC of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code. I believe he did, and for substantively the same reasons 
the Investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr O to 
have received a refund of the remainder of his loss at the time.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the Investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr O ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct HSBC Bank Plc to pay Mr O:
  the remainder of the money he lost as part of the scam - £1,316  within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus 
 interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) 
from the date HSBC declined Mr Os claim under the CRM to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman