DRN-1129739
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down his home contents insurance 
claim and reported him for fraud, which has impacted on his ability to get other insurance.
What happened
Mr S submitted an insurance claim for a wedding ring he said he had lost on the beach. UKI 
appointed loss adjusters, Loss Management Group (LMG), to assist with the claim. Mr S 
provided a valuation receipt as proof of ownership of the ring.
LMG had dealt with a previous claim from Mr S through a different insurer. In that claim, Mr 
S had been burgled and two rings had been stolen. These were his wedding ring and a ring 
belonging to his wife. LMG told UKI that the other insurer had replaced the rings, but Mr S 
had then returned them both and accepted a cash settlement instead. The valuation receipt 
that Mr S had provided to UKI was for the rings that had been returned.
UKI phoned Mr S to discuss his claim. It asked him to confirm the circumstances in which 
the ring was lost, which he did. UKI then explained that LMG had concerns about his claim 
because its records showed that, as part of the previous claim, both rings had been returned 
and the claim was settled by a cash payment. Mr S said that this was incorrect and that he 
had not returned the rings and he still had his wifes ring. He agreed to send a photo of that 
ring to show he still had it. UKI said that it would contact LMG to discuss what Mr S had said 
about the previous insurance claim.
LMG checked their records again and told UKI that it had provided them with partially 
incorrect information. Mr Ss wedding ring had been returned and a cash settlement was 
paid, but the other ring had not been returned. The other insurer also confirmed this 
information.
UKI spoke to Mr S and told him what LMG now said about the rings. It asked Mr S for proof 
that he had replaced the ring following the cash settlement in order to address its concerns 
about the claim.
Mr S did not provide any evidence that he replaced the ring. As a result, UKI decided that Mr 
S had deliberately provided inaccurate information. It cancelled his policy by relying on the 
fraud clause, which says:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or 
anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim: 
your policy may be cancelled 
we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
we may keep any premium you have paid.
 It said it would not pay the claim and would share details of the matter with fraud prevention 
agencies.
Mr S complained to this service. He said that he had not made a fraudulent insurance claim. 
He said that as a result of his insurance policy being cancelled, he could not get other 
insurance and his car insurance had also been cancelled.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that UKI had dealt with the complaint 
fairly.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr Ss main concern is that he is now finding it difficult to get insurance. I 
can understand this concern and therefore need to consider whether UKI reasonably in how 
it dealt with the insurance claim and in the action it took when it cancelled the policy.
Mr S provided a valuation certificate as proof of owning the lost ring. The certificate was 
actually for a ring that he had returned as part of a previous claim. It was appropriate for UKI 
to follow up on this as part of assessing his insurance claim. This included asking LMG to 
check again whether the rings had been returned as part of the previous claim, as Mr S did 
not agree with LMGs initial explanation of what had happened in settling the previous claim.
It also gave Mr S several opportunities to explain what had happened and prove that he still 
owned the ring that he previously claimed to have lost. Mr S did not provide any proof. I am 
also aware that when our investigator looked at the case, Mr S confirmed to him that he had 
received a cash settlement for the ring and then bought another to replace it. Mr S said that 
he would try and find evidence of buying it. He did not provide any evidence then either.
I have also taken into account that some time had passed since the previous claim and that 
Mr S might not have immediately remembered what happened about replacing his wedding 
ring as part of that claim. The information from LMG was also partially inaccurate, which 
might have caused Mr S some initial confusion. Ive thought about whether this might explain 
why Mr Ss explanation of what happened changed during this insurance claim. However, Mr 
S has been given a number of opportunities to show that this claim was genuine, but he has 
never provided any proof that he owned the ring that he says he lost as part of this claim. 
In the circumstances, I think that UKI acted reasonably in declining Mr Ss claim and 
cancelling his policy. It gave Mr S a number of opportunities to show that the claim was 
genuine and that he owned the ring. It did not decide that the claim was fraudulent and 
cancel the policy until it was satisfied that Mr S had been given time to provide evidence that 
the claim was genuine.
I have also thought about whether it was reasonable for UKI to share information with fraud 
prevention agencies. In the documents that form part of the insurance policy, it says:
We share or check your information with other organisations to help stop fraud and money 
laundering. These organisations include police and fraud prevention agencies in the UK and 
abroad. Well always follow the Data Protection Act if we do this.
We and other organisations also share or check your information to: Help us decide whether to give you, or people you live with, insurance or financial services
 Recover any money you owe us
 Check peoples identities.
Insurance businesses are required to provide accurate information to the agencies 
concerned with fraudulent claims. I think that UKI has acted correctly in sharing information 
with fraud prevention agencies and the policy explained the circumstances in which it would 
do so.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman