DRN-3193395
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Service Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance Limited (Barclays) didnt accept his request for a payment holiday on his loan 
account.
What happened
Mr R had a loan account with Barclays. In April 2020, Mr R requested a three-month 
payment holiday on the account because he was struggling to meet the monthly repayments 
because of the financial impact of Covid-19. Barclays accepted Mr Rs request for a three-
month payment holiday, and it was implemented on Mr Rs loan account such that the next 
required monthly payment would be due on 1 October 2020.
When the three-month payment holiday ended, Mr R didnt make the payments that were 
due on the loan and the account fell into arrears. Mr R did make a payment to clear the 
arrears, but subsequently didnt make later loan payments so that the account fell into 
arrears once again. Mr R then requested a further three-month payment holiday from 
Barclays, but Barclays explained that they were unable to offer the type of payment holiday 
to Mr R that hed requested because his account was in arrears. Mr R wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Rs complaint. But they confirmed that the type of three-month 
payment holiday that Mr R had requested wasnt available to customers whose accounts 
were in arrears such as Mr Rs loan account had been when hed made the request.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Mr R hadnt been 
eligible for the payment holiday that hed requested because of the arrears on his account, 
and so they also didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance which 
stated that eligible consumers who had been impacted financially by the Covid-19 pandemic 
should be provided with three-month payment holidays by their credit providers. This 
guidance was later expanded by the FCA to include the provision of a second three-month 
payment holiday to eligible consumers where the consumer remained in a difficult financial 
position after their first payment holiday as a result the impact of Covid-19.
Importantly, the FCAs stated aim in publishing this guidance was to protect consumers who 
had otherwise been able to meet the financial commitments of their credit, but who found 
themselves in financial difficulty at that time  solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
This means that the three-month payment holidays werent intended to be provided to 
consumers who were already in financial difficulty for other reasons when requesting a 
payment holiday, although the FCA did confirm that other forms of financial assistance 
should be considered by credit providers when approached for help by such consumers.
In this instance, Barclays contacted Mr R before his first payment holiday came to an end 
and advised Mr R that his loan payments were scheduled to restart from 1 August onwards. 
At that time, Mr R didnt contact Barclays to request a further three-month payment holiday 
on his loan. Unfortunately, Mr R also didnt make the payments that were due on the account 
on 1 August and 1 September, which meant that the loan fell two months into arrears.
Mr R did contact Barclays and made a payment to clear the two months of arrears, but 
following this the payments due on 1 October and 1 November also werent made, which 
meant that the loan account fell two months into arrears once again.
Barclays contend that this meant that, when Mr R contacted them in October to request a 
second three-month payment holiday, he wasnt eligible to receive a second payment 
holiday because his account was in a state of arrears.
Barclays position here seems reasonable to me, given that they payment holidays were 
never intended to be provided to consumers already in arrears  as explained above. 
However, Ive gone on to consider whether it can be fairly concluded that Mr Rs falling into 
arrears on the account following the end of the first payment holiday might be considered as 
an indicator that the account was in a continual state of financial difficulty because of the 
impact of Covid-19  regardless of whether Mr R informed Barclays as such or not.
But its evident from the account history provided by Barclays that Mr R had fallen into 
arrears previously on several occasions since the start of the loan in 2018 and therefore 
prior to the emergence of Covid-19 in early 2020. 
Because of this, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Mr R not making the 
payments that were due on the loan following the end of the first three-month payment 
holiday are indicative that Mr R was in financial difficulty solely because of the impact of 
Covid-19, and I say this because it appears that Mr R was experiencing continuing financial 
difficulty such that he couldnt make the payments due on the account at a time before 
Covid-19 had any impact.
Im also satisfied, from the correspondence records that Barclays have provided to this 
service, that Barclays informed Mr R before the first payment holiday expired that his 
contractual repayments were becoming due once again, and that Barclays contacted Mr R 
several times when his account subsequently fell into arrears. And I note that Mr R 
responded to Barclays arrears correspondence on at least two occasions before later 
requesting the second payment holiday about which he later complained. 
Barclays have also been able to demonstrate that they did offer other forms of financial 
assistance to Mr R at the time that his request for a second payment holiday was declined, 
but that Mr R chose not to complete the income and expenditure assessment that was 
required for Barclays to make an assessment as to what other forms of financial assistance 
might have been appropriate. It is, of course, Mr Rs right to choose not to provide income 
and expenditure information to Barclays. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to accept an offer of 
payment made by Mr R in these circumstances without such information, and I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr R by following their normal collections procedures aster 
this point.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays werent obliged to provide Mr R with the 
second three-month holiday that he requested when his account was two months in arrears, 
and Im also satisfied that Barclays did make fair efforts to offer alternative financial 
assistance to Mr R, but that Mr R declined to provide the information reasonably required by 
Barclays to allow those efforts to progress.
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the 
outcome that Mr R was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman