DRN-1770603
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Target Servicing Limited (Target) is pursuing him for payment of a 
loan. Mr M doesnt believe Target is entitled to seek payment. He is asking Target to pay 
compensation.
What happened
In 2008 Mr M took out a secured loan with a business which is no longer trading, which I will 
call WF. The loan was transferred to another business (CFS) in 2018. Target administers the 
loan on behalf of CFS.
In 2011 Mr M entered into a trust deed (a formal payment arrangement) with his creditors. 
This was discharged in 2016. The loan was not included in the trust deed.
Mr M said he looked into the background of WF and checked the land registry. He 
discovered his loan hadnt been registered. Mr M believes the loan is unsecured and should 
have been included in his trust deed  and so should have ended in 2016. 
Mr M has now stopped making payment on the loan. He is unhappy that Target has reported 
adverse information about this on his credit file. Mr M also made a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) and is unhappy with the response from Target. Mr M complained to Target.
Target didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had only taken over administration of 
the loan in 2018 and so wasnt responsible for anything that had happened before that  
including any issues with the land registry. Target explained that Mr M was bound by the 
loan agreement and legal charge. 
Dissatisfied with Targets response, Mr M contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint. He explained to Mr M that Target wasnt responsible for 
anything that happened before the loan was transferred to CFS in 2018. This included 
Mr Ms concerns about the original lender and registration of the legal charge, and whether 
or not the loan should have been included in Mr Ms trust deed.
With regard to the issues that did fall within Targets remit, the investigator was satisfied that 
Target was entitled to report adverse information to credit reference agencies where 
payments had been missed. The investigator noted the length of time Target had taken to 
respond to Mr Ms DSAR. He recommended a payment of £100 for trouble and upset 
relating to this. 
Target accepted the investigators findings, but Mr M did not. He acknowledged that the bulk 
of his grievances were actually with the original lender and his insolvency practitioner. But he 
nevertheless maintained that CFS was not entitled to recover the debt from him.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
Ive noted the points Mr M has made about his concerns relating to the validity of the loan. I 
will explain here that questions of whether or not a loan is valid and binding on Mr M is really 
a matter for a court, not the Financial Ombudsman Service. But in any event, the loan was 
taken out in 2008 and Target has only been responsible for administering it since it was 
transferred to CFS in 2018. I note Mr M has acknowledged that much of what he is 
concerned about pre-dates this and so isnt the responsibility of Target or CFS.
Given this, any concerns Mr M has about the validity of the original loan isnt something that 
falls within the scope of this complaint  which is about how Target has administered the 
loan since 2018. In relation to this complaint, Im satisfied that there is a secured loan 
agreement and a legal charge. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Target is entitled to 
ask Mr M to continue to pay the loan.
Mr M has not been making payments, and is upset that Target has reported missed 
payments to the credit reference agencies. But Target is under an obligation to provide 
accurate information about the payment history on an account. In the circumstances I dont 
think Target has done anything wrong in reporting missed payments against Mr M.
Putting things right
Im glad Target has acknowledged it took too long to respond to Mr Ms DSAR. I agree with 
the investigator that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Target Servicing Limited must pay Mr M £100 compensation for 
delay in responding to his DSAR. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman