DRN-2723649
The complaint
Ms J and Mr J are unhappy because UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their claim for 
a cancelled holiday.  
What happened
Ms J and Mr J paid a deposit towards a holiday travelling in a motor home in February 2020. 
They paid a £400 deposit towards the holiday which was non-refundable. The holiday was 
due to start on 27 June 2020 and end on 11 July 2020. Due to the restrictions placed by UK 
government on movement throughout the country, Ms J and Mr J could no longer travel.
On 3 June 2020, Mr J requested for the deposit to be refunded to them and for the holiday to 
be cancelled. The motor home provider said the deposit was non-refundable, but it offered to 
carry forward the booking as a gesture of goodwill because of the circumstances.
Ms J and Mr J said they no longer wanted to book another trip and wanted a refund of the 
deposit. So they put in a claim on their travel insurance policy to recover the cost of the 
deposit. They also said when the policy was due for renewal, Ms J was asked to upgrade the 
cover in order for costs for the both of them to be claimed for. She says she was given 
incorrect advice on this. 
Ms J and Mr J would like the claim paid and the premium for the renewed policy premium 
refunded as they think the advice given to them was incorrect. 
UKI said Ms J and Mr J were offered to use the holiday in the future so they havent suffered 
a financial loss. This means that they cant make a claim on their policy for cancellation as 
cover for any costs that are recoverable is excluded on the policy. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Ms J and Mr J brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and partly upheld it. With regards their claim for the 
deposit, she agreed that UKI hadnt acted unfairly in declining it. And with regards to the 
complaint about the policy renewal, she thought UKI should refund the premium paid by 
Ms J on renewal to upgrade the cover. This is because the advice given by UKI regarding 
the renewal policy and needing Mr J on it, for a claim to be accepted, was incorrect. 
UKI accepted the investigators assessment and agreed to refund the premium Ms J paid for 
the renewal and add 8% simple interest. 
Ms J and Mr J asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. They said in 
summary that they booked a holiday for a specific date in June 2020 and were unable to 
take that holiday. They werent able to recover the deposit from the motor home provider and 
the alternative to carry forward the holiday at a future date didnt represent a recovery of 
their costs.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether UKI declined the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and whether it did this fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Ive considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines. These say that an insurer has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unfairly decline a claim. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms J and Mr Js policy. The policy 
provides cover for cancellation made for a pandemic or epidemic defined as a natural 
disaster in the policy document. 
The motor home provider offered Ms J and Mr J to carry forward their deposit to a future 
holiday and date. Initially it said the holiday had to be booked by March 2021 and since then 
its extended this date to the end of 2022. 
I appreciate that Ms J and Mr J say they dont wish to travel to that destination any more and 
therefore this offer isnt useful to them. Ive also taken into account what theyve said about 
losing trust in the motor home provider. However, having considered the terms of the offer, I 
dont think it is so restrictive as the date by which they can book the holiday has been 
extended to the end of 2022. Therefore, I dont think the terms of the voucher are so 
restrictive that it would be unfair or unreasonable for Ms J and Mr J to accept it. As such, Im 
not persuaded it would be fair for UKI to pay the claim as Ms J and Mr J are still able to book 
the holiday by the end of 2022. 
In regard to the complaint Ms J and Mr J made about the advice given to them at the time 
the policy was renewed, UKI has accepted it could have done better. It therefore agreed it 
would refund the premium and pay 8% simple interest to Ms J and Mr J. I think this is fair 
and reasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied UKI has declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions, and in 
doing so, its treated Ms J and Mr J fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms J and Mr Js complaint about UK Insurance 
Limited in part and direct them to put things right by refunding the additional premium paid 
plus 8% simple interest from the date the premiums were paid to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman