DRN-2893916
The complaint
Miss L says Loans 2 Go lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss L says she took out the loan as she was desperate having just lost her job. She
expected a phone call after she applied online but the funds were transferred to her account
overnight and only then did she become aware of the cost of the monthly payments.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said the checks were not proportionate and better
checks would have showed Miss L was reliant on family and friends to meet her living costs.
And her credit file showed she had an arrangement to pay in place on a credit card that was
close to its limit. So she didnt think Loans 2 Go had made a fair lending decision.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying the credit file showed Miss L was up-to-date with her credit
commitments and she didnt make the lender aware she was struggling financially when she
applied. It asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
As I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator I issued a provisional decision to allow 
both parties to comment or provide further evidence before a final decision was reached. An 
extract from the decision follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Miss L before it approved the loan. It
checked her credit file and asked for details of her monthly income and expenditure. She
declared these to be £2600 and £330. It checked her income using an income verification
tool and used a lower figure of £1310 for its assessment. It increased her expenses to £821
after an internal review and checking her credit file. From these checks combined Loans 2
Go concluded Miss L had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
Given the term of the loan, and the discrepancy between the income and expenditure Miss L
declared and the checks Loans 2 Go did, I think it should have done further checks. In the
circumstances of this case I dont think it was proportionate to rely on averages or estimates
to amend what Miss L had declared. I think it needed to complete a fuller review of Miss Ls
actual financial situation.
However, its failure to do so doesnt mean the complaint should be automatically upheld. I
need to look at what Loans 2 Go was likely to have seen had it completed proportionate
checks. To do this I have reviewed Miss Ls bank statements from the months before her
application. Im not saying the lender needed to do this but its one way to understand what
better checks would most likely have shown. Having done so, I dont think it would have
made a different lending decision had it carried out proportionate checks. I say this I think
they show Miss L had enough disposable income to afford the loan. The adjudicator
suggested that Miss L was reliant on family and friends to meet her living costs. But I dont
think this is accurate. In addition to monthly income that averaged £1114 Miss L received
benefits of on average £716 and £600 child maintenance each month. The regulations allow
the lender to consider all other regular credits a customer may receive  like child
maintenance  as income. So her total income averaged £2431 per month.
I know Miss L told us she applied for the loan as she had just lost her job. But she received
her weekly salary on 27 March 2020 so unless she had disclosed this I cant see that Loans
2 Go could reasonably be expected to have been aware of her change in employment
circumstances.
It seems her fixed living expenses (rent, groceries, petrol, utilities, council tax, insurance,
water, telephony, tv licence) were around £1350 a month, and her monthly credit
commitments on average totalled £369. So on a pounds and pence basis it seems Miss L
had enough disposable income to afford this loan. However, the lender had to check more
than this. It had to make sure Miss L could repay the loan sustainably  so without borrowing
further or suffering any other adverse financial consequence.
Loans 2 Go reviewed Miss Ls credit file and concluded she was up-to-date with all her credit
commitments. The adjudicator thought the report suggested Miss L was struggling to
manage her finances as she had one arrangement to pay in place on a credit card that was
close to its limit, and she was making regular use of pay day loans.
Ive thought carefully about what the fair conclusion is based on Miss Ls credit file. It
showed she had a relatively low level of outstanding debt (£2011) and nine active accounts.
There were only two credit searches in the 12 months prior suggesting she wasnt applying
for multiple loans or cards. She had previously defaulted on one account, but this was some
years ago in 2016. Similarly the payday loans had largely been taken out over a year ago in
early 2019 and were settled. And Miss Ls credit utilisation on her credit cards had reduced
in the month prior to application. Overall, I dont think there was a level of adverse
information or overall indebtedness that should have led Loans 2 Go to be concerned the
loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss L.
I accept she may have had other borrowing that wasnt on the credit report Loans 2 Go saw.
The information a lender sees can vary from what a consumer may see on their own credit
report for a number of reasons such as timing and the fact not all lenders report to all credit
reference agencies. But its fair and reasonable for it to rely on the information in the credit
report it obtained.
It follows I dont think Loans 2 Go were wrong to lend to Miss L. I do sympathise that she
lost her job but based on what Loans 2 Go saw, or couldve seen, at the time of her
application I cant see there was any way for it to independently discover her employment
status had changed.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent found that it did. Miss L says she only became aware of the size of the monthly
payments after receiving the money. But the amount was clearly set out in the pre-contract
information and the loan agreement that she signed electronically before receiving the funds.
I note that it also responded promptly to her request for a reduced payment plan and it
seems discussion about that stalled as Miss L couldnt make an offer for it to consider, and
then raised this complaint.
Loans 2 Go responded saying it had no further comments. 
Miss L responded saying her situation at the time was not as it seemed. She had much more 
debt (three credit cards, a home shopping account and a PayPal account all at their credit 
limit, as well as three payday loans). The child maintenance payments from her ex-partner 
were to help cover her rent as she was struggling.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
Ive considered Miss Ls comments carefully, but they dont change my conclusion. Ill 
explain why. 
As I explained in the provisional decision it can be that the information a lender receives on a 
credit report can vary from the information an individual would see on their credit file. So I 
accept it is feasible Miss L had other debts at the time. But I cant reasonably expect Loans 2 
Go to have taken into account credit commitments that didnt show on the credit report it 
obtained. 
And as I said in the provisional decision  the detail is set out above - I dont think the report 
it checked showed a level of adverse information or overall indebtedness such that Loans 2 
Go should have been concerned the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss L.
With regards the child maintenance I remain of the view it would have been fair for Loans 2 
Go to take these payments into account as the regulations allow the lender to consider not 
just salary but all other regular credits an applicant receives. 
I am sorry Miss L lost her job but based on what Loans 2 Go saw, or couldve seen, at the 
time of her application I cant see there was any way for it to independently discover her 
employment status (and therefore income level) had changed, and so make a different 
lending decision.
It follows I am not upholding this complaint. I note there remains an outstanding balance on 
the account. I would remind Loans 2 Go of its obligation to treat Miss L positively and 
sympathetically when agreeing the most appropriate course of action as it is aware she is 
having financial difficulties.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman