DRN-3470225
The complaint
W complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) has proposed to 
settle a claim it made on his commercial property insurance policy. 
W is being represented in bringing this complaint by Mr S, on behalf of the director of W. But 
for ease Ive only referred to W in this decision. 
What happened
In February 2021, there was an escape of water at a property owned by W. It made a claim 
to UKI, which it accepted. But when assessing the claim, it found the property was 
underinsured.
UKI asked W to provide two quotes for the reinstatement works. It provided one from a 
company A, another from C. Having received them, UKI thought the quotes (of around 
£120,000 each) had been overstated. It instructed its own surveyor (S) who said it would 
cost around £54,000 to repair the damage caused. But due to the underinsurance issue, UKI 
said it would settle this proportionately. And it offered around £25,600.
W complained to UKI, it thought the settlement was too low. But UKI didnt agree to change 
its position so a complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the offer made by UKI was 
fair. W didnt accept that. It said it wasnt looking for the £120,000 to be paid, but the 
complaint was about the difference between Ws quotes and the one provided by UKI. W felt 
the work couldnt be carried out by UKI for the amount it quoted.
As W didnt agree, it asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
Ive already set out some of my findings to both W and UKI. I said looking at the schedule of 
works provided by W, and the one from UKI. I could only see one key difference. In some of 
the rooms, C has quoted for not only removing the flooring, but also the underlay and 
replacing the sub-flooring. This was based on UKIs loss adjuster report, which allowed for 
this work. 
But there is no mention of the cost of removing underlay and subflooring in UKIs costings 
from S. So I asked UKI for more detail on this. 
UKI has said this is because its surveyor, when assessing the damage, didnt think this extra 
work was necessary. UKI has said it places more weight on the surveyors opinion than that 
of the loss adjuster  as it is the surveyors area of expertise. I said it would have been 
helpful if UKI had explained this to W, as I cant see that its ever given any reason for why 
the costings of the two parties differ so much. But having considered UKIs comments, I told 
W I was minded to say its reasonable that the surveyor would be able to give a more 
accurate account of the damage, so I think the position reached by UKI on the flooring is a 
fair and reasonable one.
Ws response was that it never asked for the full £120,000 settlement. And W was told by 
UKIs loss adjuster not to carry out any work to the property, including drying it. It said this 
had made the damage worse. It also said it had never received the policy documents from 
UKI which set out its ability to reduce the claim in the event of underinsurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the property underinsured?
In order to assess whether the offer is fair, I first need to consider whether Im satisfied the 
property was underinsured. 
At the time of the escape of water, the sum insured on the policy was around £159,000. But 
when UKI attended the property shortly after the leak, it thought it had been underinsured. It 
said correct sum insured should be over £415,000. W seems to accept there is an issue with 
underinsurance but has said UKI didnt carry out a duty of care to ensure it was properly 
insured. 
The relevant law here is the Insurance Act 2015, which places responsibility on W to make a 
fair presentation of the risk. And having considered everything, Im satisfied there was a 
qualifying breach of the Insurance Act, as W didnt make a fair presentation of the risk. And 
UKI has shown it would have offered the policy at a higher premium had W given an 
accurate sum insured amount. 
So because UKI has shown it would have charged a higher premium, it is allowed to 
proportionately reduce the amount to be paid on the claim. UKI has shown it would have 
charged W more than double of the premium it paid for the policy. So in this case its 
proposed to pay 46% of the claim. In relation to the 46%, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly in 
reducing the claim settlement by this amount, due to the underinsurance. 
Has UKI shown the works can be carried out for the figure its quoted?
W has argued that the offer from is too low, as the quotes it received said it would cost in the 
region of £120,000 to repair the damage caused. So a proportionate settlement would be 
around £55,000. Whereas UKIs offer (taking into account the proportionate settlement) is 
around £25,600. So Ive next considered if the total claim amount calculated by UKI has 
been done so fairly and reasonably. 
When UKI attended the property in March 2021, its loss adjuster provided a scope of works 
of the repairs needed for the property. Due to the underinsurance issue, it asked W to 
provide two quotes. 
As far as Im aware, these quotes were provided on the basis of the loss adjuster report, 
rather than the contractors attending the property and assessing the damage. The first quote 
from A, is a one page quote that says strip out and re fit as per loss adjusters specification 
and lists a price of just over £126,000 exclusive of VAT. The other quote obtained by W, provided by C, does include much more detail on the repairs 
and costs. This came to £119,000 exclusive of VAT. But when UKI received these quotes, it 
thought they were too high and so instructed a surveyor to provide its own costings. The 
company used by UKI, who Ill refer to as S, provided a quote for around £54,500, inclusive 
of VAT.
As there is little detail of the costs involved in As quote, I havent placed much weight on 
this. So Ive compared the quotes from C and S to determine whether UKI has made a fair 
offer to settle the claim. Having done so, I consider the schedules to be largely similar, UKIs 
seems to include a few more areas of damage not noted on Cs schedule such as the rear 
entrance hall and reception, but they broadly agree on the main areas of damage in the 
building and the repair works needed. 
As set out above, the only difference I can note is in relation to the flooring. Having 
considered this again, with Ws comments, my findings on this are the same in that Im more 
persuaded by UKIs surveyor, S, comments that a repair to those areas was not necessary. 
And I find it likely that this is one of the reasons why S quote for the repair was lower than 
those provided by W.
Aside from that, its difficult to see why there is such a difference in what the parties think the 
work can be done for. UKIs estimate includes more detail as to what work needs doing, and 
it has been done by a party who visited the property, so I find this more persuasive than the 
quotes provided by W. Having reviewed the work needed in each room, it seems to me this 
is mostly plastering and redecoration needed, as well as fitting new flooring in various areas. 
So whilst I accept this is a large building with lots of rooms, an estimate of around £120,000 
for this work does seem too high to me. 
W has said it never asked for the full £120,000 to be paid. I accept it hasnt, but in order for 
me to say UKI should pay more, Id have to be satisfied its quote is too low. And from 
everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded thats the case.
Having reviewed UKIs quote from S, it has accounted for VAT and it has also confirmed its 
costings are based on the market rate (i.e. what it would cost W to have the works done) as 
opposed to any discounted rate UKI might be able to benefit from. So on balance, Im 
persuaded UKI has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle the claim, and so it doesnt 
need to increase the amount offered.
W has said it was told by UKI not to carry out any work to dry the property, which has made 
the damage worse. I havent seen any record of that. But even if I were to accept that was 
the case, I dont think its been shown that UKIs offer is too low. I havent been provided with 
any evidence from W  other than what it has said  about the damage now being worse. 
And UKIs surveyor attended the property and reviewed the damage in order to come up 
with its costs for repair. I also find that UKI told W from early on that there would be an issue 
with a settlement amount, given the underinsurance issue. And W does have a duty to 
mitigate its loss and not let the damage get worse. So overall I dont think UKIs actions 
mean it needs to increase the settlement amount in the circumstances of this case.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) to 
do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman