DRN-3054138
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloydss offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr W paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr W at the same time as he applied for his credit 
card. Mr W says he applied for the card online, but Lloyds has sent evidence to suggest it 
was sold by post. Ive seen a copy of the application form and it looks as though Mr W filled 
out an application form after it had been sent to him by mail. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Lloyds made it clear Mr W didnt have 
to take out the PPI. Looking at the application form, I can see that Mr W was presented with 
two equally prominent boxes  one to tick to say he wanted a policy and another to say he 
did not. I can see the yes box has been ticked. I think it would have been clear to Mr W that 
if he didnt want PPI, he could have just checked the no box. Overall, I am satisfied it would 
have been clear to Mr W that he didnt have to take the policy out if he didnt want it. 
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely information about the 
cover so he could decide if it was right for him.
I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for his circumstances. I say 
this because he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. For 
example, Mr W told us he was in good health when the cover was sold, so I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about Mr Ws employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Those representing Mr W made several submissions about what it considered were 
additional limitations about back and mental health conditions. However, I cannot see that 
there were any additional restrictions on such claims, as alleged by the representative. 
If Mr W had to make a PPI claim, I can see that 10% of his balance would have been repaid 
for every month he was off sick or if he lost his job. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 
months. Mr W hasnt told us about any sick pay from his employer. But it seems most likely 
to me that the PPI would have lasted for longer than his sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr W 
told us he didnt have any other means with which to meet his card repayments if he was out 
of work. So I can see how the PPI could have been helpful at what could have been a 
difficult time if Mr W was out of work. I cant say he would have acted differently if he had 
been given more or better information about the cover. 
Mr Ws representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Lloyds and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr W about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line 
with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr W paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr W 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not require it to take any further 
action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman