DRN-3137089
The complaint
Mr G says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Lendable provided the following loan to Mr G:
start datemonthly 
instalmentsloan amount 
(plus loan fee)monthly 
repayments Total amount 
payable 
14 June 2020 48 £8,020 £278.56 13,142.61.
Mr G mainly said that if Lendable had done a full credit search and seen all his credit history 
it wouldnt have accepted his loan application. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. In brief summary, he thought the 
information Lendable had gathered showed that the loan was affordable for Mr G and he 
thought the checks done had been proportionate. So our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view so his complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr G that 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. I appreciate this isnt the outcome he was hoping for but I hope that 
setting out my reasons will help to explain why this isnt a complaint I can fairly uphold. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mr G complaint.
When Mr G applied for this loan, Lendable asked him for information about his finances and 
carried out a credit check. Lendable checked what hed said about his salary by doing its 
own background checks with a credit reference agency and recorded that his minimum 
monthly income was around £3,600. It relied on information it obtained that showed Mr Gs 
committed expenditure suggested the loan would be affordable for him.
Lendable relied substantially on the information it acquired from credit reference agencies 
and in particular, what it saw in the credit checks it obtained at the time of application. Mr G 
hasnt sent me any details about his income and expenditure at the time and I havent seen 
anything else to make me think that Lendable had any reason to think that Mr G would have 
any difficulty meeting the loan repayments he had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Lendable carried out showed that Mr G wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no recent defaults on his record. 
Mr G says Lendable shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to him 
and that other credit reports from different companies support what he says. But I think its 
fair to say that information Lendable had gathered tended to suggest that Mr G seemed to 
be managing his credit without any particular signs that he had a serious debt problem. 
Whilst the credit checks Lendable obtained showed that Mr G had other outstanding credit 
he seemed on the whole to be managing his debt well. His balance to limit ratio was just 
80% - he had an outstanding balance of around £9,000 on his cards with more than £2,000 
worth of available credit left still to draw upon had he wished to do so. The report noted that 
in the previous 12 months hed had a couple of missed payments but these had been made 
up and payments had been up to date during the three months running up to Mr G applying 
to Lendable for this loan.
I think it was potentially concerning that Mr G had been using his credit card to obtain cash 
advances  but it looked like his dependency on this method of obtaining credit seemed to 
be reducing. I also think there was a question about why someone with his level of income 
would need to rely on using expensive credit to the extent Lendable could see that Mr G 
seemed to be doing. But it wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. These wouldnt 
necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. 
And there could be a number of legitimate reasons why Mr G might choose to take out a 
high cost loan. Lendable has told us that it took into account that the loan purpose was debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr G would use the loan to repay other outstanding debt. I 
think that wouldve seemed plausible and a reasonable use of the money, especially as Mr G 
said his bank had declined to lend. I think in these circumstances Lendable was reasonably 
entitled to take a view that this suggested Mr G was borrowing specifically to help him 
manage his finances more responsibly  it looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that 
on the figures it worked out and that he could have used its loan to help him with his plans to 
restructure his debt. 
I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Gs credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income. Or that anything that Ive seen revealed in the credit checks Lendable carried 
out was enough for me to say that it shouldve realised it needed to find out more before 
lending, for instance, by doing more checks into his credit history or asking Mr G to prove 
what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had said (or 
omitted to say). 
Id expect Lendable to decide Mr Gs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that different searches can reveal different 
things and information Mr G might see when doing his own credit checks, including other 
short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check done by Lendable when he 
applied for this loan. 
Mr G has mentioned that he doesnt understand why a loan application to his bank was 
refused yet he was accepted by Lendable. But lenders are entitled to choose the level of 
business risk they are willing to incur. High cost loan providers are typically used by people 
who fail to meet selection criteria set by mainstream lenders and the cost of this type of 
lending reflects the additional risk of lending in these circumstances.
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mr G might now feel the loan was unaffordable for him. But the loan documents set out the 
terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr G chose to apply for this loan and he had to 
actively engage in the loan application process. The total amount he was signing up to repay 
over the contractual loan term, including interest, was set out and the agreement showed the 
number and amount of the payments he would need to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr G was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
I dont think Lendable had any reason to think that Mr G wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main 
loan costs and Mr G said he wanted to proceed. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lendable obtained. But in order to uphold 
this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr G. And I havent 
seen enough to make me think that Lendable acted towards Mr G in any other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman