DRN-3559787
The complaint
Mr B and Miss S complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, undervalued their 
property, meaning that they were unable to borrow the further funds they needed, and 
instead had to move to another lender. As a result, they had to pay an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) to Halifax, which they would like refunded. Along with some costs in relation 
to instructing professionals to complete specialist reports.
They also feel that Halifax has failed in its obligation ...to communicate clearly and fairly... 
with them.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr B and Miss S bought their property, seemingly expecting to have to 
undertake some quite substantial renovations. Having commenced the works, they 
applied, via a broker, to Halifax for a further advance in June 2021. Halifax instructed its 
surveyors to complete a valuation report in July 2021. That report highlighted several 
concerns about the structure of the property, and led the surveyors to request further 
information about possible subsidence at the front of the house before they could 
provide a reasonable valuation. 
Halifaxs surveyors asked that Mr B and Miss S buildings insurers assess the situation 
to determine whether any movement was historic or ongoing, and to confirm that they 
would continue to insure the property on the same basis.
In August 2021, Mr B and Miss S paid a different surveyor to inspect the property. That 
surveyors report set out that there was evidence of structural movement at the front of 
the house, which ...might be progressive...
By September 2021 Mr B had spoken to their insurers, who in an email of 7 September 
2021 set out that the movement was historic. (However, as will be discussed in the 
following section, it would seem that they may have been relying on what Mr B had told 
them in saying that. They had certainly not inspected the issue themselves.) As a result, 
the insurers said that a claim wasnt the right approach and might increase premiums.
Halifax passed the insurers response on to its surveyors, who reiterated in mid-
September 2021 that it had not been established that any movement was historic, and 
that the same information and confirmation from the insurers continued to be required. 
Mr B was apparently not willing to push this and run the risk of increasing their insurance 
premiums.
On 17 September 2021 Halifax required its surveyors to provide both present condition 
and improved values on the house so that it could fully consider the application for the 
further advance. As a result of the concerns and outstanding information, the surveyors 
could only reach a top improved valuation which was less than Mr B and Miss S had 
paid for the house in 2020.
Mr B and Miss S complained to Halifaxs surveyors, who defended their position and 
processes. Ultimately, Halifax declined the application for the further advance and Mr B 
and Miss S sought out another lender. That lenders surveyors seemingly had no 
concerns about the impact of possible subsidence on the value of the house and offered 
Mr B and Miss S the size of mortgage they required.
Mr B and Miss S therefore paid the ERC and moved to the new lender.
Having considered all the evidence, the investigator thought that Halifax hadnt done 
anyting wrong in how it handled this application for the further advance, so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr B and Miss S disagree and have asked an ombudsman to look at their 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mr B and Miss S have not said that they believed they would automatically be entitled 
to further borrowing on their mortgage, or that they didnt know that an ERC would apply if 
they chose to redeem the mortgage before the end of the agreed term. The fact that any 
application for a further advance would be subject to assessment and current lending criteria 
at the time was set out in their mortgage paperwork in 2020. As was the structure of the 
ERC and when it would need to be paid.
Mr B and Miss S fundamentally believe that Halifaxs surveyors have ...demonstrated 
professional negligence throughout... The actions of those surveyors are not within my 
jurisdiction as an ombudsman, nor do I have the necessary skills to judge their conduct. My 
role is to determine whether Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in this situation. 
Importantly, those surveyors are accredited by the Royal Institution for Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS), which I think means that it is reasonable for Halifax to appoint them as competent 
professionals, and fair for Halifax to rely on their advice.
In order to progress this application to a possibly successful outcome, Mr B and Miss S were 
asked to involve their buildings insurers to provide further information and understandably 
important confirmation about continuity of insurance cover. When that met with resistance 
from the insurers, and the possibility of increased premiums, they chose not to.
I do not think it was unreasonable of Halifax to follow its surveyors advice in asking for the 
information from Mr B and Miss S buildings insurers. It needed more information to approve 
the loan, which it was entitled to ask for. It is reasonable for Halifax to have wanted to ensure 
that the property remained good security for the loan. As Mr B and Miss S decided not to 
obtain and provide that further information, I dont think it was unfair of Halifax to rely on the 
lower valuation returned as a result.
Mr B and Miss S were clearly aware of the potential for them to have to pay the ERC if they 
redeemed the mortgage early. And they seemingly chose to do that rather than insist that 
their buildings insurer looked at the potential problem identified and confirm the position in 
terms of cover. Mr B and Miss S say that their insurer was right not to open a claim as ...the 
likelihood [was] there [was] no problem. However, there clearly was a potential problem, 
and neither of the two surveryors reports that Ive been provided with categorised it as 
historic. The fact that a different lender, using a different surveyor, either didnt think there 
was a problem, or was simply happy to take that risk in reaching its valuation, is not relevant. Halifax was entitled to rely on the advice it received from its surveyors.
As mentioned at the start of this decision, Mr B and Miss S say that Halifax, deliberately 
and repeatedly failed to engage, choosing instead to hide behind a third party thus not 
engaging in a meaningful way. I can find no evidence of that from the contact logs. As I 
would expect, Halifax was liaising with Mr B and Miss S broker in dealing with the 
application. And referred valuation queries to its surveyor. Once Mr B and Miss S lodged a 
complaint, Halifax discussed that with them directly.
As I have not found any significant mistakes by Halifax, it therefore follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint. Halifax offered Mr B and Miss S some compensation for time wasted when 
they first raised their complaint. Mr B and Miss S have not accepted that so far, but my 
expectation is that it would continue to be on offer by Halifax, and can still be accepted by Mr 
B and Miss S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Halifax doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman