DRN-1733863
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.  
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B was involved in a car accident. Mr B says that he was not at fault as the 
third-party was not driving on the correct side of the road. Mr B provided his version of 
events, including photographs taken right after the accident. He also provided a statement 
from an individual that did not see the accident, but who arrived at the scene shortly after. 
Based on the information provided from Mr B, Aviva, at first, tried to get the third-party 
insurer to accept liability. However, the third-party insurer disputed liability as the third-party 
was alleging that Mr B was at fault. So, the matter of liability was referred to arbitration.   
Aviva wrote to Mr B in September 2019, saying that following arbitration his claim had been 
settled on a 50/50 basis. Aviva was aware of this outcome for a few days, but they did not 
communicate this to Mr B right away. So, they apologised for this lack of communication and 
paid Mr B £50 compensation. 
 
Mr B says the third-party was driving on the wrong side of the road, so he still categorically 
disputes the fact that he should be held liable in any form for the accident. He says that his 
insurance has increased significantly since the accident, and that he is unhappy that he had 
to pay out of his own pocket 50% of the excess to have the damage to his car repaired. So, 
overall Mr B disagreed with Avivas decision and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Did Aviva handle Mr Bs claim in a fair and reasonable manner and in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy?
My role here is to consider whether Aviva handled Mr Bs claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner and in line with his policy terms. Its not to determine who was liable for the accident.
Mr B says that, he still categorically disputes the fact that he should be held liable in any 
form for the accident. Mr B says he was and still is willing to go to court to prove this. He 
says the third-party was driving on the wrong side of the road. He says he submitted 
photographs taken after the accident which clearly show his cars road position and the skid 
marks of the third-partys car, which he says was traveling on the wrong side of the road 
right before colliding into his car. 
It is important for me to explain that according to the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
insurance policy, Aviva have full discretion in how they settle or defend a claim. But that 
decision needs to be based on facts and evidence. I have therefore considered this to see if 
Aviva has made their decision in line with the policy, but also on a fair and reasonable basis 
taking all available evidence into consideration. 
I can see that Aviva originally tried to settle the claim by getting the third-party insurer to 
accept liability; based on the information Mr B provided to them. But the third-party insurer 
disputed liability and was alleging that Mr B was at fault based on the statement from their 
insured. Based on this the matter of liability was referred to arbitration.   
Avivas notes state that for the arbitration process they uploaded: 
- images provided by Mr B after the accident, 
- Mr Bs statement, 
- a statement from an individual that did not see the accident but who arrived at the 
scene shortly after, and 
- an engineers report. 
When submitting information for the arbitration, Aviva placed 100% liability on the third-party, 
and submitted that the third-party collided with Mr B on a two-lane road; where Mr B was 
well within his own lane and the third-party appears to have entered his side.
The third-party insurer, for the arbitration, placed liability at 100% on Mr B. They submitted 
that that their insured met Mr Bs oncoming large car, on a bend on a narrow road; and that 
Mr B braked sharply skidding into their insureds stationary car.
The arbitration said they were not aware of any witnesses who saw the incident occur, and 
the statement on file from someone who attended the scene after the incident had occurred 
does not assist with any liability argument. The arbitration looked at the locus of this incident, 
as well as the evidence and notes provided. And overall, they said that they had no evidence 
to prove either parties account of events and both appear equally credible. The arbitration 
went on to conclude that they believe both drivers should be held equally responsible for this 
incident with the claim being settled on a 50/50 basis.
So, taking all of the above into consideration Aviva settled the claim on a 50/50 basis as they 
felt there was lack of evidence to the contrary. I know Mr B disagrees with this and doesnt 
agree that he should be liable at all. But I think Aviva has followed the terms and conditions 
of the insurance policy and exercised their discretion reasonably, based on what they 
considered, when coming to their conclusion. And insurers arent required to take the third-party to court in order to decide liability just because their policyholder wants them to. Aviva 
is entitled, under the terms of Mr Bs policy, to settle a claim as they see fit. Considering that 
the claim was settled on a 50/50 basis, it is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Bs insurance policy, that he was responsible to pay 50% of the excess 
to have the damage to his car repaired.
Is Aviva required to do anything else regarding Mr Bs claim?
Aviva has admitted there was a delay in initially communicating the outcome to Mr B, so they 
paid him £50 compensation. Based on the circumstances of this complaint, I believe this is 
reasonable, as it provides a fair level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr 
B has experienced as a result of the delays.  
While Mr B has my sympathy, taking all the available evidence into consideration, Im not 
asking Aviva to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman