DRN-2891571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited because they believe it mis-
sold them a medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were previously covered by Mr Ls group medical insurance through his 
employer. During that time, in September 2019, Mrs L began experiencing hip pains and 
after some initial tests, it was determined that she needed hip replacement surgery. This 
complaint centres around this treatment and whether it was made clear this would be 
covered by the scope of the new policy that superseded the group insurance.
Mr Ls group policy ended in April 2020 and so the following month, he set up a new policy 
which he intended to be a continuation of cover. Mr and Mrs Ls intentions were to maintain 
cover for their pre-existing conditions, including the predetermined hip replacement surgery 
needed for Mrs L. However, when they attempted to claim for the surgery, which didnt 
happen until October 2020 owing to backlogs caused by the COVID-19 pandemic  and Mrs 
Ls decision to explore whether to have a round of pain-management injections, AXA said 
that part of the claim wasnt covered. Mr and Mrs L complained about this as they didnt think 
AXA had been responsible or clear about that when it sold them the policy. 
AXA said that at the time the new policy was offered, it asked a clear question about any 
intended inpatient treatment and that Mr L answered no. It said that on that basis, it 
provided a quote that was cheaper than it otherwise would have been, had it known that Mrs 
L needed her hip replaced. AXA determined that Mr L mustve known that Mrs L had 
planned her hip replacement treatment and that this wouldve meant shed have to recover in 
hospital for a few days. It said that because Mr L failed to disclose this whilst setting up the 
new policy, it hadnt done anything wrong by declining cover for that element of the 
treatment. 
To make things better, AXA offered to cover the treatment in full, up to the policy limit, but it 
said that Mr and Mrs L would have to pay the difference in premium, which was £1,740.78. 
Mr and Mrs L agreed to do this, but were unhappy with the suggestion it was their fault. In 
summary, they said;
AXA was their previous provider of cover and therefore it already knew that Mrs L 
had intended to have a hip replacement. They said that AXA shouldve accessed 
their previous medical history to ensure they fully understood their medical 
background. Mr and Mrs L were under the assumption that this wouldve happened 
as standard practice;
They had to pay the additional costs on their credit card and have incurred additional 
interest as a result. They argued that had AXA been clearer from the outset, they 
couldve made other arrangements to pay the premium in full and so say that AXAs 
lack of clarity at the time of sale has caused them financial difficulty; 
During the sales call, they made it clear that they wanted like for like cover they 
further explained that they meant by this that they wanted their existing medical 
conditions to be covered. Mr and Mrs L suggested that AXA attempted to wriggle 
out of its responsibilities by hiding behind technicalities and complicated jargon. Mr 
and Mrs L said they made it clear what they were looking for and have found it 
difficult to understand why AXA said it would provide cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions, but not for those that would require a stay in hospital (inpatient 
treatment).  
Our investigator sympathised with Mr and Mrs L. She concluded that AXA shouldve taken 
more care during the initial sales call. She said that Mr and Mrs L were clear that they 
wanted continuous underwriting on their new policy and that his intention was for their pre-
existing conditions and on-going treatments to be covered by the new policy. Because this 
didnt happen, she said that Mr and Mrs L were effectively put on the spot and had to find 
money to pay the additional premium. Mrs L did this on her credit card and so the 
investigator awarded the interest she incurred, £94.46 to be paid by AXA. She also awarded 
£200 compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused by AXAs poor handling of the 
sales call. She thought AXAs recommendation that Mr and Mrs L pay the difference 
between the two premiums to be fair. 
Both AXA and Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the compensatory award. In summary, AXA said 
that it asked a clear question to Mr L during the sales call about either of them intending to 
have any inpatient treatment. It stood by its initial reaction that Mr L ought reasonably to 
have known that his wife was intending to have hip replacement surgery and should have 
disclosed this when asked. It also reaffirmed that it made clear that should Mr and Mrs L give 
any incorrect information, then it could affect their ability to claim in the future. AXA also said 
it wasnt its responsibility to share with Mr and Mrs L that hip replacement surgery would 
require inpatient treatment and that this shouldve been investigated by them, prior to 
inception. AXA said that it already went beyond expectations by allowing Mr and Mrs L to 
make changes to the policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period which began after policy 
inception. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt provide any new arguments but reiterated that they want the cost of the 
increased premium back £1,740.78. And so, its for me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im persuaded by our investigators recommendation and so Im upholding 
her view. Thats to say that AXA must pay £294.96 in compensation to Mr and Mrs L for the 
same reasons already explained by our investigator for the trouble and upset caused. Ill 
explain why this is fair.
I think AXA has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly. I say that because I think it should have been 
more responsible during that sales call and perhaps recognised that Mr L was potentially 
vulnerable and that he may not have fully understood the options AXA was putting in front of 
him. Subsequent arguments from Mr and Mrs L have reinforced that view and I understand 
AXAs argument about the benefit of hindsight. However, I still think AXA had a duty of care 
in this situation to help its customer make the right choice by giving all information in a clear 
and accessible way. 
The FCA recently published information about vulnerable customers and explained that this 
doesnt automatically refer to health or finances. People can be vulnerable due to lack of 
awareness or understanding of financial products offered by firms, like insurers, and I consider that to be the case in these circumstances. Mr L said that he didnt understand 
what was meant by inpatient treatment. And so, when AXA offered to reduce his premium by 
removing that benefit, this sounded attractive to him as he was looking to reduce the cost of 
the policy  which was in excess of £9,000 when originally quoted. 
But Mr and Mrs L made it clear that they wanted a like for like policy and they knew there 
was on-going treatment covered by their previous plan. I can understand how they may have 
felt mis-led by AXA when they thought theyd double checked that their pre-existing 
conditions were covered and were given the green light. Only to realise that wasnt the case 
when Mrs L submitted her claim in October 2020. AXA explained the pre-existing conditions 
was covered, but not the inpatient treatment part of it. I think thats quite a difficult concept to 
understand, especially against the backdrop of being told existing conditions were covered. 
I think AXA did the right thing by offering Mr and Mrs L the opportunity to amend their level of 
cover. I note its comments about that being beyond its usual approach, but I wanted to 
recognise it for being fair here. 
Mr and Mrs L paid the difference and the claim was covered. But I still agree that this caused 
them money problems because it was a considerable difference and they had to come up 
with the funds instantly. This was unexpected and given what Ive previously said about 
vulnerabilities and the FCAs guidance to firms about how to better understand and support 
their customers, I think it fair that AXA cover the interest as explained by the investigator.  
Mr and Mrs L raised arguments about whether AXA ought to have reasonably already known 
that Mrs L intended to have hip replacement surgery, given this was discussed with it directly 
under the previous policy and authorisation was given. I understand the association being 
made here, but I agree with AXA and our investigator, its not possible due to Data 
Protection laws. Again, I dont think this was made clear and so perhaps Mr Ls assertion 
that AXA had access to their previous medical history may have gave him a false sense of 
security that AXA fully understood his intentions for the level of cover required. 
In any event, AXA said it asked a clear question about whether either of them intended to 
have treatment that required hospital admission. Mr L paused and checked with Mrs L. He 
answered no and thats its fundamental argument for why its not made a mistake. Ive 
explained my thoughts on that already and I believe AXA should have identified there was 
more exploration needed here to make sure Mr L better understood what it meant.   
Mr and Mrs L shouldnt have the increased premium waived or refunded, because they 
should have paid that price from the beginning, had the sales call gone more smoothly. Im 
persuaded they would have paid the increased price because theyve said throughout the 
complaint they intended to stay with AXA because they wanted like for like cover.
And so, because AXA hadnt done everything Id expect when setting up the policy, I think it 
caused some trouble and upset  which is why I agreed with the award already 
recommended by the investigator. However, I dont agree that AXA should pay the increased 
policy cost because its the correct price for the policy Mr and Mrs L needed and therefore 
should have paid to begin with.   
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and AXA PPP Healthcare Limited must now pay £294.46 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman