DRN-4423853
The complaint
Mr F complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has terminated 
benefit for an incapacity claim he made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
Mr F is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In June 
2019, Mr F was signed-off from work with an initial diagnosis of Menieres Disease. His 
employer made an incapacity claim on the policy, which L&G accepted. It began to pay Mr F 
monthly benefit from December 2019.
L&G kept the claim under periodic review and based on the available evidence, it remained 
in-payment. Mr F was subsequently diagnosed with myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic 
fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS).
In 2022, L&G referred Mr F to a third-party provider for a Chronic Pain Abilities 
Determination (CPAD) assessment. This took place over two days in May 2022 and Mr F 
underwent a series of cognitive and physical tests. Ultimately, the CPAD assessor 
concluded that the functional abilities Mr F had demonstrated during the assessment were 
the minimum he could safely perform over a normal working day. They felt Mr F had 
exaggerated some symptoms. The CPAD assessor was satisfied that Mr F was fit to return 
to his usual occupation on a full-time basis.
L&Gs vocational clinical specialist (VCS) team reviewed the CPAD report. VCS designed an 
eight-week phased return to full-time work plan for Mr Fs employer. L&G paid proportionate 
benefit for the duration of the eight-week plan but terminated Mr Fs benefit from 21 August 
2022 onwards.
Mr F was unhappy with L&Gs decision and he appealed. He strongly disagreed with the 
conclusions reached by the CPAD assessor and felt theyd made clear errors. He also 
provided L&G with a copy of an occupational health (OH) report, dated July 2022, which 
stated that Mr F would be fit to return to work on a very gradual basis from September 2022 
onwards. And he provided evidence that hed been diagnosed with viruses and infections, 
which could have caused ME/CFS.
But L&G maintained its stance and it issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint in 
November 2022. So Mr F asked us to look into his complaint. He told us that he had 
returned to work on a phased basis, but in a different role.
Our investigator thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She considered the CPAD 
report and the OH report of July 2022. She noted that the CPAD assessor had 
recommended that Mr F should be referred for a neurological assessment to determine his 
cognitive abilities, but this hadnt happened. She considered Mr F had experienced ongoing 
symptoms and was unable to return to his own occupation, which had been demonstrated by 
the fact that he now worked in a different role. So she didnt think it had been fair for L&G to 
terminate the claim and she recommended that L&G should pay Mr F backdated benefit, 
together with interest. She also felt that L&G should pay Mr F £300 compensation.
L&G disagreed and Ive summarised its response. It felt that medical professionals had 
certified that Mr F was fit to work and that the CPAD had found that Mr F had no cognitive 
impairment. It noted the investigators comments that Mr F had changed roles, but it said it 
had no objective medical evidence to support this. It maintained that the decision it had 
made at the time it issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint was fair and reasonable. But 
it said it could explore any new evidence separately.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think it had been fair for L&G to terminate Mr Fs claim in August 2022. I said:
First, Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and the parties detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said 
and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been 
made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues.
It's also important that I make the parameters of this decision clear. I will only be considering 
the evidence which was available to L&G in November 2022  at the point it issued its final 
response to Mr Fs complaint, endorsing its decision to terminate benefit in August 2022. If 
Mr F now has new, objective medical evidence and evidence from his employer which 
shows that he has changed roles and that such a change was medically supported, hell 
need to send this evidence to L&G for its review. Thats because it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to make any finding on evidence or comments which L&G hasnt had an opportunity 
to consider or assess. If Mr F is unhappy with any new, further assessment of his claim, he 
may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and conditions and the 
available evidence, to decide whether I think L&G has handled Mr Fs claim fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show that they have a valid claim on their policy. This means that at the outset, it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to provide L&G with enough medical and other evidence to demonstrate that 
he met the policy definition of incapacity. Its common ground that L&G was satisfied that Mr 
F was incapacitated in line with the policy terms and it accepted his claim in 2019. Once an 
insurer accepts an income protection insurance claim, the burden of proof switches. I 
generally take the view that in order for it to terminate Mr Fs claim fairly and reasonably, 
L&G needs to provide enough evidence to show that Mr F no longer meets the definition of 
incapacity.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Fs 
employers contract with L&G. L&G concluded that Mr F no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity and so Ive looked closely at the definition of incapacity. This is defined as:
Own occupation:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period. The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.Ive gone on to consider then whether I think L&G has provided enough evidence to show 
that Mr F no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive looked closely at the available 
medical evidence  including clinic letters; VCS records, the CPAD report and the OH report 
of July 2022. Its clear that Mr F reported (and underwent some treatment for) a number of 
debilitating symptoms since 2019, including fatigue, nausea, tinnitus and memory loss. 
Ultimately, it seems that Mr Fs symptoms were found to be caused by ME/CFS.
There is little objective medical evidence from doctors between November 2019 and the OH 
report of July 2022. Neither have I seen copies of Mr Fs GP notes. The evidence we do 
have indicates that Mr F tried a number of treatments to aid his recovery, including grommet 
surgery; cognitive behavioural therapy and hyperbaric ozone treatment, in addition to 
changing his diet. L&Gs continued acceptance of the claim between November 2019 and 
May 2022 appears to have been largely based on periodic reviews between Mr F and VCS  
which necessarily seem to have relied on Mr Fs self-reporting. So it appears to me that L&G 
was happy to broadly accept Mr Fs own symptom self-reporting for over a two-year period.
Based on the time that had passed, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to appoint an external 
company to undertake a CPAD assessment with Mr F. Ive looked carefully at the report and 
Ive summarised below what I consider to be the assessors key conclusions:
A review of the CPAD results indicate that the functional abilities demonstrated by Mr F 
are the minimum he can safely perform over a normal working day
Whilst it is noted that there were a number of consistencies provided by Mr F over both days 
of testing, there were also some areas of concern which are highlighted in detail as follows:
 Mr F reported he has much more than usual problems with tiredness, needing to rest more, 
feeling sleepy or drowsy, lacking energy, feeling weak, having less strength in his muscles, 
and memory. This does not correlate with his ability to converse normally throughout history 
taking, maintain eye contact, his self-reported ability to travel to London for treatment 
between days 1 and 2 of CPAD, or his report of feeling more energised on day 2
Notwithstanding the areas of concern noted above, according to the physical results on day 
2 of CPAD, Mr F demonstrated the following (minimum) safe workday tolerances:
 He is able to constantly (over 67% of the working day) sit with regular breaks.
 Mr F is able to frequently (34-66% of the working day) reach out bilaterally, perform bi- 
manual handling tasks, and walk, all with regular breaks.
 He is able to occasionally (up to 33% of the working day) perform bi-manual fine dexterity 
tasks, and stand, both with frequent breaks.
 Normal power (5/5) was demonstrated in both upper limbs.
 Mr Fs reduced ability to pinch and grip should not impede his ability to return to his normal 
occupation.
 He demonstrated a normal range of movement in his cervical inclinometry.
Therefore, taking into account the above inconsistencies, his reported abilities to undertake 
numerous activities of daily living, as well as the very minimum results on day 2 of CPAD 
when compared to his self-reported role demands, it is clear that they confirm that Mr F is fit 
to resume his normal occupation on a full-time basis.With regards to the battery of cognitive tests undertaken during the CPAD assessment it is 
concluded that he did not demonstrate any level of cognitive impairment during this test on 
either day of CPAD.
A review of (one) cognitive test results indicate that Mr F performed with significant symptom 
exaggeration on day 1 of testing.
These scores are lower than patients suffering from severe traumatic brain injuries, stroke, 
and dementia. Individuals within this score range would typically require significant support 
to perform everyday self-care and routine functions and cognitive function challenges are 
often clearly evident within general communication and interaction with such individuals. This 
is not however, the case with Mr F.
Additionally, these very low and low percentile level scores are not consistent with Mr Fs 
demonstrated normal cognitive function in (other) tests, his observed abilities to follow and 
recall test instructions, his ability to converse normally at all times, or his reported abilities to 
undertake a number of activities of daily living
Whilst the majority of scores are classified in the average and above average percentiles, it 
is noted that he scored in the low percentile level for both the visual and verbal memory 
domain, and in the very low percentile level for the composite memory domain. It is therefore 
recommended that further assessment of his cognitive capabilities be undertaken through an 
in-depth Neuro-psychological Assessment.
Its clear that Mr F has substantive concerns about the accuracy and veracity of the report 
and the conclusions reached by the CPAD assessor. However, L&Gs records show that it 
notified the assessor of Mr Fs comments and asked for their response. In the 
circumstances, I think this was an appropriate and reasonable position for it to take. And I 
dont think it was unfair for L&G to place some weight on the findings of a qualified, external 
assessor.
L&G didnt go on to organise a neuro-psychological assessment for Mr F, as the CPAD 
assessor had recommended. Instead, it seems to have relied on the finding that Mr F hadnt 
demonstrated any level of cognitive impairment in one particular test during the CPAD. Im 
not currently persuaded that this was a fair and reasonable response from L&G. Thats 
because given Mr Fs long-reported symptoms of fatigue, I think it would have been 
reasonable for L&G to appoint an independent neurological consultant to assess Mr Fs 
cognitive capacity for work  whether full or part-time at that particular point in time.
Given the CPAD reports conclusions, L&G instead referred Mr Fs case to its VCS team to 
draw up a phased return to work plan. This was based on an eight-week programme, which 
was intended to conclude with Mr F returning to full-time hours. L&G decided to terminate 
benefit from the point Mr Fs employer could have actioned the plan and Mr F could have 
returned to work.
Following L&Gs decision, Mr F provided more medical evidence in support of his claim. This 
included blood test results and an OH report dated July 2022. Ive carefully considered the 
new evidence Mr F provided and in particular, the OH report, which was carried out by an
OH consultant physician  an expert in occupational medicine. Ive set out their key findings 
below:
Mr F has noticed a gradual improvement in his health, especially in 2022. As mentioned 
above, his energy, general malaise and other symptoms do fluctuate both within the day and 
between days but overall, he estimates his energy level is around 65% of normal. He feels he copes well with the tinnitus and his partial hearing loss does not cause him any difficulties 
in his daily life
It is harder for (Mr F) to gauge the extent of his cognitive fatigue because other than reading, 
he has not really challenged himself in this area but it is likely to parallel his physical fatigue. 
Certainly he feels there has been little impact on his memory, speed of thought or his ability 
to undertake calculations.
Fitness for work
I think Mr F has reached a point in his recovery where he could return to work provided it 
was possible from a business point of view to implement some workplace adjustments. At 
this stage it is hard to predict whether he will, in due course, reach full time hours; around 
50% of those with CFS who do return to work are able to do so. However, (Mr F) is now 
making good progress and so I think there are grounds to be optimistic.
As he has been off sick for three years and he has both cognitive and physical fatigue which 
are exacerbated by taking on too much, in my view it would be important for him to have a 
very gradual phased return. In addition, during the first six weeks back, it would be helpful if 
he were to avoid work with tight time pressures or where there is a need to undertake much 
multitasking. He should also not be expected to travel for long periods and therefore I 
recommend for now, he works from home
My suggestions for the first 6 weeks of the phased return are set out in the table below. It is 
likely the whole phased return will last at least 3 months but it is too early to set out the 
complete programme at this stage
As (Mr F) has many appointments in August at clinics which are not close to his home, I also 
think it would be sensible for him to delay his return until September.
The consultant physician recommended that Mr F should work one hour per day for three 
days in the first week, four days in the second week and five days in the third week, followed 
by one and half hours per day for five days in the fourth week, two hours per day for five 
days in the fifth week and two and a half hours per day for five days in the sixth week. 
Ive borne in mind the CPAD reports findings and the VCS return to work plan. Im also 
aware that Mr F has had diagnoses of conditions which may have caused the ME/CFS  
although theres no objective evidence that these underlying diagnoses would cause 
incapacity in and of themselves. But Im more persuaded by the findings of the OH 
consultant physician  an expert in their field. Its clear that the OH consultant physician 
didnt think Mr F would remain totally incapacitated and unfit to carry out his insured role in 
any capacity. Neither did they think Mr F had any cognitive concerns. Instead, they 
concluded that Mr F was fit to return to work on a graduated plan, beginning in September 
2022. The OH consultant physicians phased return plan was considerably more gradual 
than the plan recommended by VCS and the OH consultant specifically stated that it was too 
early to set out a full plan.
I dont think the CPAD findings are enough to negate the OH consultant physicians 
evidence. Instead, I think the OH report is persuasive enough to show that Mr F remained 
fully incapacitated in line with the policy terms until August 2022 and that he became fit to 
work part-time from September 2022 onwards. So I think this is persuasive evidence to show 
that L&G ought to have continued to pay benefit, in line with the phased return to work plan 
detailed in the July 2022 report and subject to further reviews, either by external experts or 
by the OH consultant physician.Overall then, I currently find that L&G hasnt provided enough evidence to show, on balance, 
that Mr F no longer met the policy definition of incapacity at the point it issued its final 
complaint response in November 2022. So it follows that Im not satisfied that L&G has 
shown it was fair and reasonable to terminate Mr Fs claim in August 2022.
Accordingly, I currently find that the fair outcome to this complaint is for L&G to reinstate and 
pay Mr Fs claim, backdated to the date of termination, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and in line with the July 2022 return to work plan. It is entitled to pay proportionate 
benefit in line with the contract terms from the point the OH consultant physician concluded 
Mr F would have been fit to return to work. And I intend to find that L&G must add interest of 
8% simple to each monthly benefit payment from the date it received the July 2022 report 
until the date of settlement.
I must make clear that L&G remains entitled to periodically review the claim, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions to assess whether the claim remains payable. This may include 
asking Mr F to provide further evidence or undergo further medical assessment. As Ive 
explained, its open to Mr F to provide L&G with new medical evidence to support his change 
in role.
As Ive set out above, I think that from the point of Mr Fs appeal and the date it received the 
OH report, L&G was in a position to reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit. I think its 
decision not to do so caused Mr F unnecessary trouble and upset, at an already difficult time 
for him. This has led to the claim being unnecessarily prolonged for around a further 11 
months. For that reason, I currently think that L&G should also pay Mr F £300 compensation 
to reflect the trouble and upset I think its caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr F didnt provide any substantive new evidence.
L&G said it had no further evidence or commentary to provide. It said it understood the 
decision and would action a detailed instruction from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any substantive new evidence or comments, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
For completeness, Im directing L&G to reinstate and pay Mr Fs claim, backdated to the 
date of termination, in line with the policy terms and the July 2022 return to work plan. Its 
entitled to pay proportionate benefit from the point the OH consultant physician concluded 
that Mr F would have been fit to return to work. It must also add interest at an annual rate of 
8% simple to each monthly benefit, from the date it received the July 2022 OH report until 
the date of settlement.
L&G remains entitled to review the claim, in line with the policy terms, to assess whether it 
remains payable. This may include further medical assessment or OH review. Its also open 
to Mr F to provide L&G with new evidence in support of his claim should he wish to do so. If 
Mr F is unhappy with the outcome of any further assessment of his claim, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Legal & General Assurance Society Limited to:
Reinstate and pay Mr Fs claim, backdated to the date it was terminated, in line with 
the policy conditions and the return to work plan set out in the OH report of July 
2022;
Add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to each backdated monthly benefit from 
the date it received the July 2022 OH report until the date of settlement*;
Pay Mr F £300 compensation.
*If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman