DRN-2741365
The complaint
Ms W, on behalf of C, has complained about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline 
Cs claim for business interruption losses following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
C held a small business retail insurance policy underwritten in part by Covea. Much of the 
correspondence on this case was sent by the administrator of the policy, but for the sake of 
simplicity Ive just referred to Covea as they are responsible for the decision to decline the 
claim. 
The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for loss of income as a result of 
business interruption. In March 2020, following the government-imposed restrictions, Cs 
business was interrupted and it claimed for loss of income as a result of this. 
Covea declined the claim. It said that the cover provided by the Infectious Diseases 
extension to the loss of income section of Cs policy was limited to a specified list of 
diseases and this list did not include COVID-19. Further correspondence also confirmed that 
the Public Emergency extension did not provide cover for the claim either, as this excluded 
claims relating to infectious or contagious diseases. 
Ms W was unhappy with this and complained. She also made it clear that C was not claiming 
under the Public Emergency extension. However, she felt the definitions provided by the 
policy over what the Infections Diseases extension covered were unclear and Covea hadnt 
interpreted them fairly.
As Covea did not change its stance, she referred Cs complaint to this service. However, our 
investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He said the definition of Disease 
was clear and that it applied to the Infectious Diseases extension. So, he felt the cover 
provided was limited to the specified diseases and, as this didnt include COVID-19, Coveas 
decision not to meet Cs claim was not inappropriate. 
Because Ms W remained unsatisfied, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on C. But for 
substantially the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The type of cover C is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy C had.
As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy C held with Covea to determine whether 
there are any sections that would require Covea to meet a claim like the one C is making. 
Having done so, I dont think there are.
Cs policy provides cover for loss of income as a result of several things. The main loss of 
income section, along with a number of the additional covers to this section, effectively 
requires there to have been damage to property which caused the interruption to the 
business. COVID-19 didnt cause damage to property. And, whilst C has no doubt suffered a 
loss of income, this was not in consequence of a loss of any property.
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the COVID-19 pandemic and 
required certain businesses, including Cs, to close. COVID-19 is an infectious disease. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension to 
the loss of income section of the policy in relation to Infectious Diseases. Ms W has also 
focussed her arguments around this extension.
This extension provides cover in relation to business interruption losses caused by:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any 
government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises

The term Disease in this clause is capitalised, indicating it has a specific meaning within 
this section of the policy. The section definitions say, in part, the following:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear with 
an upper case letter except where otherwise stated

Disease
means any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis, 
acute infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, botulism, 
brucellosis, cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food poisoning, 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group A 
streptococcal disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
septicaemia, mumps, plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhus, viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF), whooping cough and yellow 
fever
So, this means where the term Disease is used in upper case within the section it refers to 
one (or a number) of the diseases in the specified list. The Infectious Diseases extension 
uses the term Disease in upper case, so I consider this clause provides cover in relation to 
the manifestation of one (or a number) of these diseases.
I do note that the use of the term Disease in the extension is accompanied by further 
wording  both human infectious or human contagious and the references to AIDS and 
AIDS-related conditions. Given the types of disease in the list are all likely to be either 
infectious or contagious and they would need to be sustained by a person, and that AIDS is not included in the specified list, this wording might be unnecessary (though I note Coveas 
comments about cover for one of the listed diseases in circumstances where this developed 
as a result of AIDS). But I dont think this makes the meaning of the clause unclear. Or that 
this means the section definition of Disease no longer applies.
The use of the word Disease in capitals indicates that this word has something other than 
its ordinary meaning. The definition of Disease provided in the policy section is clear. And 
there is no statement within the extension that indicates this definition does not apply.
I dont think a court would consider the term to be ambiguous or that it would be necessary 
to apply the doctrine of contra proferentem, which Ms W has said should be applied. I think 
the definition and the extension are fully capable of being understood without needing to be 
apply this doctrine.
I consider that the extension provides cover relating to a specified list of diseases. And 
COVID-19 is not one of the diseases listed in the definition. When reaching this finding Im 
mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it 
might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the policy at the time it was written. 
But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think Covea intended to, or 
suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Covea deliberately chose to define 
Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy, which there could have been if that was what 
Covea wanted to cover, that implies it provides cover for other diseases, including any new 
diseases which might emerge generally, or new diseases added to the Governments 
notifiable diseases list from time to time.
There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover. I dont think 
the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of 
the defined list set out above. I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover 
in the event of the specified diseases listed in the definition of Disease.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim under 
this term was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Cs policy, including the Public Emergency 
extension. But I dont consider Cs claim ought to have been met under any of them. So, 
having considered all the circumstances of this case, whilst I am sorry for the position C 
finds itself in, I am persuaded Coveas decision not to meet Cs claim was fair and 
reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for Ms W, but I hope Ive provided her with a 
thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Cs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman