DRN-3879578
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) settled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr B insured his car with esure via a price comparison website and 
renewed it each year.
In May 2022, esure investigated a claim and Mr Bs car was declared a total loss. However, 
before they settled the matter, an engineer reviewed the MOT history for Mr Bs car and a 
discrepancy came to light regarding its mileage. Mr B had disclosed an annual mileage 
amount of 1,000 to 2,000 miles each year, but his cars MOT history didnt reflect this.
Mr Bs car had travelled 90,415 miles at the time of the accident and 10,539 miles since its 
last MOT in July 2021. esure therefore concluded Mr B should have declared an estimated 
annual mileage of 12,000 to 13,000 miles that year. And said his decision not to do so, 
meant he paid 74.85% of the premium he should have done based on the correct mileage. 
So, after establishing the cars market value and deducting the policy excess, they paid him 
£4,649.07 and said this was 74.85% of his total loss settlement. 
Mr B then complained and said the settlement deduction meant he couldnt afford to replace 
his car. One of esures advisers had told him the difference in premium was only £50 and, in 
any event, he didnt think esure should have relied on his cars MOT history. So, he strongly 
felt they needed to change their decision and increase the settlement amount.
As Mr B was unhappy with esures final response, an investigator at this service considered 
the complaint but didnt uphold it. He agreed Mr B misrepresented his annual mileage and 
said it was fair this was reflected in the claim settlement. He was also confident that based 
on the information esure had provided the deduction had been calculated fairly. 
Mr B then requested a final decision without providing any additional comments. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure have relied on the policy terms and conditions to provide Mr B with a proportionate 
settlement. However, it may be helpful if I explain that the relevant law in this case is The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
esure have suggested Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he declared his annual mileage during his initial application and at renewal. Ive 
therefore looked at the question Mr B was asked during his application and note that it says: 
What is the total annual personal mileage for this car?  Next to the question was an 
information pop up box which explained This is the total number of personal miles you 
expect this car to be driven over the next year by all drivers named on the policy. It also 
highlighted the importance of providing an answer that was as accurate as possible and said 
underestimating the mileage could impact the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr B was asked a 
clear and specific question and he should have taken reasonable care when answering it.
Mr Bs policy automatically renewed each year. However, he was asked to check the 
information he previously provided and let esure know if anything had changed or was 
incorrect. This was therefore an opportunity for him to update the information he gave about 
his annual mileage but didnt do so. 
I've reviewed the MOT history for Mr Bs car and agree that it suggests Mr B significantly 
underestimated his annual mileage, both when he applied for the policy and at renewal. The 
cars mileage history is as follows:
Mileage at the time of the accident 90,415 (10,539 miles since last MOT)
MOT mileage 79,876 MOT date July 2021 (13,628 miles since last MOT)
MOT mileage 66,248 MOT date August 2020 (18,115 miles last MOT)
MOT mileage 48,133 MOT date August 2019
Mr B feels esure shouldnt have relied on his cars MOT history, but he hasnt provided any 
reasons or evidence to support his belief. It's possible a different driver could have been 
using his car, but esures contact notes suggest Mr B was specifically asked about this. I 
also note that Mr B was the only person insured to drive his car under this specific insurance 
policy. So, I see no reason to disregard his cars MOT history and conclude Mr B 
misrepresented his annual mileage. Im also satisfied that based on the  above and the date 
of the accident 12,000 to 13,000 miles would have been an appropriate amount of mileage 
to declare for the year the accident took place.
esure have provided their underwriting guidance which shows they would have charged     
Mr B a significantly higher premium but for the misrepresentation. Their calculation 
demonstrates that he paid 74.85% of the premium he should have done had he correctly 
declared his estimated annual mileage . Im therefore satisfied his misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
Mr B has said he was told by an adviser in esures engineering department that the 
difference in premium would only have been £50. Ive therefore listened to the call recording 
where this amount was mentioned. The adviser did mention a potential £50 premium 
increase, but this was part of a general discussion about applying for insurance in the future 
and the way insurance policies are priced. The adviser didnt provide an official quote or 
suggest Mr B could pay that amount to update his policy. He also said esures underwriting 
department had calculated a 74.85% proportionate settlement based on the premium hed actually paid, and he would be contacted separately to discuss this. So, while I appreciate 
this conversation may have caused some confusion, Im satisfied esure gave Mr B correct 
information about the impact of his misrepresentation throughout. 
Under CIDRA, a misrepresentation can be deliberate or reckless, or careless. esure have 
treated Mr Bs misrepresentation as careless. As this offers the most favourable outcome for 
Mr B, I see no reason to interfere with this decision or say it was unfair.
As esure would have charged Mr B a higher premium had the misrepresentation not been 
made, Im satisfied they applied CIDRA fairly by settling the claim proportionately and basing 
this on the amount of premium he actually paid compared to what he should have done. As 
mentioned above, this amount is 74.85%. For the sake of completeness, Im also satisfied 
the settlement amount included a fair market value for Mr Bs car as it was based on the 
average value suggested by three motor trade guides.
esures decision to provide Mr B with a proportionate settlement reflects what CIDRA says 
they can do under the circumstances, and as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach 
to misrepresentation cases, I see no grounds for directing esure to do anything more. 
My final decision 
 For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman