DRN-2378201
complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
with a loan in 2004. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) 
mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments it had previously made. Mr and Mrs M have also said more 
about whether they were given a choice.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement asked: Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Cover?  
and it had boxes to say either Yes or No. So it looks from this like having the PPI with the 
loan was something customers could say yes or no to. On Mr and Mrs Ms form, which 
they signed to take the loan, the Yes box is marked - and I think it wouldve been apparent 
that the No box should be marked instead if the PPI wasnt wanted. 
The loan agreement also set out what the monthly payment for the PPI would be  and the 
loan repayment amount with and without PPI. So I think it was clear from this that the PPI 
was something that carried a separate cost and was separate from the loan itself.
All these details, like all the other details on the loan agreement such as the amount being 
borrowed, were printed on the form  and so was the mark in the PPI Yes box. I think its 
likely the printed details reflect choices made by Mr and Mrs M, about how much to borrow 
and so on, during the discussion that took place before the form was printed for them to sign.
Mr and Mrs M have said they had numerous loans elsewhere and never took PPI. Theyve 
said the PPI here was just included with the loan and they didnt see any cross on the form 
they signed. Ive considered this carefully.
But I dont think not having PPI on other loans is enough to show that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
choose to take it with this loan. Also the PPI wasnt just indicated by a cross in a box - there 
was also the cost of it set out on the agreement, which makes me think it less likely this was 
not seen by Mr and Mrs M. Also, Ive nothing to make me think Halifax wouldnt normally 
have given customers like Mr and Mrs M a choice about the PPI at this time or wouldve 
added it without a customer agreeing.  I also cant overlook that the format of the loan 
agreement presents the PPI here as something Mr and Mrs M had a choice about taking.
Also, the policy was disability and unemployment cover for Mr M only, so I dont think what 
Mr and Mrs M have said about Mrs M already having full cover adds any weight to the idea 
that they didnt choose to take the PPI, although around fifteen years passed between the 
loan and this complaint, so it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt recall all the details now.
Taking everything into account, what I have makes me think it likely Halifax made it clear 
Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take the PPI and it was added because they chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs M have said Halifax didnt give advice or recommend the PPI to them. But if 
Halifax did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind, I think its fair to assess the 
complaint on the basis that Halifax recommended the cover  as this means Halifax had to 
check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs M.
But the evidence of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances shows the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for them at the time. For example, Mr M was eligible for the cover and 
wouldve suffered a significant drop in income if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
unemployment - from what hes told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay. 
So Mr and Mrs M seem to have had a need for the cover. Also nothing about Mr Ms job or 
employment wouldve made it difficult for Mr and Mrs M to claim and he hasnt told us of any 
existing health issues he had that the policy mightve excluded.
Mr and Mrs M have told us they werent given documentation about the PPI when applying 
for the loan. I accept its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M as much clear information 
about the PPI as it shouldve. But Ive found they chose to take the cover, and I dont think 
they wouldve done so without having at least a broad understanding the cover, so it looks to 
me like they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them, 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what I think it likely they reasonably thought they 
were buying, given what Ive said above and that the loan agreement referred to the PPI as 
loan repayments cover. It seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, I dont think they wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I 
think they wouldve still thought they had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs M wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances at the time, I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult 
time if Mr M lost his job or was too sick to work. I also think it likely the policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely Mr and Mrs M thought they was getting. And, in those circumstances, 
I think they wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs M for all the points they have sent us. Having considered all their 
points, for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. This means Halifax 
doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman