DRN-3772576
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund her for three 
transactions which she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
A credit monitoring service, who Ill refer to as B, debited £35.95 each month from Mrs Ds 
account in April, May and June 2021. Mrs D noticed this in June 2021 and reported it to 
Halifax as payments she didnt make.
Halifax gave Mrs D a refund while they investigated her claim and contacted B. They then 
removed the temporary refund from Mrs Ds account in July 2021. This was because B 
provided evidence to show that the name, email address, phone number and postal address 
used all matched Mrs Ds details including the IP address.
Mrs D remained unhappy and she maintained she didnt authorise these transactions. She 
referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator said it was most likely that Mrs D 
authorised the transactions. Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2022 and I made the following findings:
Under the relevant rules, Halifax can hold Mrs D liable for the disputed transactions 
if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised them 
herself.
Halifax have provided technical evidence which shows the payments were made 
using Mrs Ds genuine card number, CVV details and postcode. But this on its own 
isnt enough to say Mrs D is liable for the transactions. I also need to be satisfied that 
based on the evidence, its likely that Mrs D herself made, or otherwise authorised 
the transactions.
When Mrs D reported the transactions to Halifax, they contacted B for information 
regarding the payments. I understand B gave Halifax evidence which showed the 
details used to set up the account  name, phone number, postal address, email 
address and IP address.
Unfortunately, Halifax no longer has the information B gave them, so I havent been 
able to see this myself. But I can see Halifax has noted at the time of the dispute that 
all of the personal details above, specifically the email address matched with those 
they held on record for Mrs D.
I dont think a third party would have any financial benefit to sign up to a subscription 
for Mrs Ds credit file using her own email address which theyre unlikely to have 
access to.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to remove the temporary refund they 
gave Mrs D as the evidence they received showed the transactions were most likely 
authorised by her.
B have explained to us that Mrs D signed up for a free 14-day trial through their 
partner website. And after the free trial ended, they charge a monthly fee of £35.95 
for their services which they say is outlined on the centre and footer of their webpage 
as well as their terms and conditions.
They have also provided evidence of the IP address used to set up the account and 
access Mrs Ds credit file on 31 March 2021. This is a very close match to the IP 
address used by Mrs D to access her online banking account with Halifax on 16 
August 2021.
Although the IP addresses arent exactly the same, it isnt uncommon for an IP 
address to change slightly as they arent from the same date but nearly five months 
apart. Given how similar they are, I think its persuasive evidence that the account 
was set up by Mrs D or someone else at the same location as hers.
B have also provided us with a chat history between Mrs D and their customer 
service agent. Both parties havent had sight of this previously, so Ive attached it 
alongside my provisional decision.
In summary, the chat history shows that Mrs D was raising a dispute about a missed 
payment and one negative impact on her credit file. She mentions shed asked a 
different credit reference agency to sort this out as it related to identity fraud. She 
also asks for the amendments to be made quicker than the 30 days stated by the 
customer service agent as she was trying to get a mortgage.
This is consistent with what Mrs D has told our service  she has been a victim of 
fraud previously and was seeking to obtain a mortgage in 2021. I think its unlikely 
that a third party would go to the effort of having incorrect information amended from 
Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs D has provided us with evidence to show she signed up to access her credit file 
with a different credit reference agency in September 2021. And she has explained 
she was approved for a mortgage in October 2021, but B took her money after shed 
already received her mortgage, so she didnt need to check her credit file.
I think its helpful for me to clarify that the three payments B took were prior to 
September 2021, before Mrs D took out a mortgage, so I dont think this evidence is 
helpful to support her point above.
Mrs D has also told us she wouldnt have signed up to this subscription as the cost 
was £35.95 per month, and shes pointed out other available cheaper alternatives. 
Mrs D has suggested that B may have somehow got her details and took funds out of 
her account for services she didnt sign up to.
If this was the case, then it doesnt explain how the account was set up and Mrs Ds 
credit file accessed from a similar IP address to the one used to access her online 
banking with Halifax. It also doesnt explain the chat history of 31 March 2021, which 
requests that the incorrect information on Mrs Ds credit file is removed.All things considered, Im satisfied theres enough evidence to show Mrs D most 
likely authorised the transaction.
I think its likely Mrs D didnt realise there was a monthly fee after the free trial ended 
or she forgot to cancel the free trial before it ended, but in either case, I think Halifax 
can fairly hold her liable for these transactions.
I know Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant agree that Halifax 
have done anything wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to refund Mrs D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Neither Halifax nor Mrs D responded within the deadline given. So, there isnt anything else 
for me to consider.
Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome I explained.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman