DRN-2822608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday through a travel agent and took out travel 
insurance at the same time. They were due to travel on 31 December 2019, to a long-haul 
destination.
Unfortunately, on the day Mr and Mrs H were due to fly, Mrs H began to suffer with norovirus 
and was unable to travel as planned. So Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip and made a claim 
on their travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Thats because Mrs H hadnt seen a GP or called 
111 before the holiday was cancelled. So AWP said it wasnt satisfied that the cancellation 
had been medically necessary.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AWP had treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. She accepted that strictly, 
the policy terms required Mrs H to provide AWP with any evidence it required and that Mrs H 
hadnt seen a GP or spoken to 111 prior to cancelling the trip. But she considered NHS 
guidance relating to the treatment of norovirus and noted that it advised people suffering with 
it to stay away from GP practices or hospitals. And she also felt that given Mrs Hs 
occupation, shed been in a position to self-diagnose her condition. Mrs Hs GP had 
subsequently confirmed that Mrs H could diagnose and manage her own illness. So she felt 
the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint would be for AWP to reconsider Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessment, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy; the available medical evidence and the 
circumstances of their claim to decide whether AWP handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy as these form the 
basis of their contract with AWP. As Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip, I think it was 
appropriate for AWP to consider the claim under the cancellation section of the policy. This 
says that AWP will pay up to £5000 if a policyholder has to cancel their trip because of their 
or their travelling companions unforeseen illness.
In this case, AWP doesnt dispute that Mrs H developed symptoms of norovirus on the day 
she was due to travel. I can see that the policy includes a claims condition which says that 
policyholders must provide AWP with evidence it requires in order to assess a claim. It says 
that as Mrs H didnt see her GP or speak to NHS 111 before cancelling her trip, it doesnt 
consider theres enough medical evidence to show that she wasnt fit to travel.
Ive thought carefully about this, because on a strict interpretation of the contract, Mrs H 
hasnt provided strict proof of her claim. But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the 
policy terms if I feel it would result in an unfair outcome. In this case, its clear that Mrs Hs 
occupation means that shes qualified to self-diagnose and manage her condition. This is 
borne out by the retrospective medical certificate her GP completed, which says: no 
consultation needed. Patient is able to diagnose and manage this illness. The GP also 
stated that while they didnt specifically advise Mr and Mrs H not to travel, the patient is able 
to make this decision. 
Like the investigator, Ive also considered the NHS guidance relating to norovirus. This 
states that symptoms usually clear up within a couple of days and that the main treatment is 
to stay hydrated. The guidance also states that the illness is most infectious during the first 
48 hours and that patients should avoid hospitals or schools. 
Taking the above into account, it seems to me that given Mrs Hs occupation, there was little 
need for her to call NHS 111 to discuss symptoms she was qualified to diagnose herself. 
And her GP appeared to support Mrs Hs decision to cancel the trip based on her illness. Ive 
also borne in mind that given the symptoms Mrs H was experiencing, the fact she was 
infectious and that she was due to undertake a long-haul flight, it may have been very 
difficult for her to travel, especially by plane, with potentially limited facilities. 
So on this basis, I dont think AWP has shown its more likely than not that Mrs H was fit to 
travel.  I think Mr and Mrs H have provided enough persuasive evidence to demonstrate that 
it was medically necessary to cancel their holiday. So this means I dont think it was fair for 
AWP to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reassess Mr and Mrs Hs claim, subject to the policy terms and any 
applicable policy limits.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman