DRN-4213853
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality. 
Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was five 
years old and had completed about 39,500 miles. 
The relevant legislation also says that when we think about whether goods have been of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether they have been durable. And here I dont 
think Mr Ss car has been durable as I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to 
have experienced such a catastrophic engine problem after only 2,500 miles, or so, of 
driving, and having completed a little under 42,000 miles in total.
The evidence suggests that Mr S had the car serviced correctly, a service was completed in 
October 2022, four months before the engine failed, and the oil was replaced. I dont think 
theres therefore sufficient evidence to suggest Mr S contributed to the problem by, for 
instance, poorly maintaining the car. The independent inspector said:
 
Whilst the oil level was correct and there were codes to suggest an oil pressure issue, we 
do consider that the engine may have been operated with depleted oil and following the 
engine failure may have been topped up.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that allegation. Mr S had only driven 
2,218 miles since the oil was replaced, and the independent inspector hasnt explained why 
the oil level would have depleted so fast. I think given that minimal mileage, and the fact the 
oil would have been replaced during services, its unlikely Mr S would have contributed to 
the engine failure by driving the car with little oil in it. Im also not persuaded it is necessary 
to strip the engine any further as I dont think that would change my opinion this engine has 
failed prematurely.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car that is of 
unsatisfactory quality, and I think MotoNovo had that opportunity when a repair was carried 
out in October 2022. As a further fault has now occurred they should now allow Mr S to 
reject the car.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should collect the car at no cost to Mr S and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit/part exchange Mr S has paid and, as hes been deprived 
of that money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr S has had to commission a diagnostic in order to support his claim. I think that cost has 
been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. So, MotoNovo 
should refund the £84 that cost, and they should add interest to that refund too.
Mr S has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and has had to make arrangements to be present during 
the independent inspection. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances MotoNovo should pay him 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr S hasnt been able to use the car since it broke down on 26 February 2023. Its not fair 
for him to have been paying for a car he couldnt drive so MotoNovo should refund any 
finance instalments that have been paid since 26 February 2023 and theyll need to add 
interest to that refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
Allow Mr S to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
Refund any deposit and part exchange contribution that has been paid and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;Refund the £84 Mr S paid for a diagnostic and add 8% simple interest per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Refund any finance instalments Mr S has paid since the car broke down on 26 
February 2023. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman