DRN-1484117
Complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc turned her down for a credit card and wont 
remove the details of her application from her credit file. Ms A is also unhappy Barclays 
didnt tell her the reason the application was declined.
Background
Ms A has said that she applied for a credit card online with Barclays at the end of June 2019. 
She says she was then sent a letter dated 27 June 2019 saying her application had been 
declined  and the letter cited three reasons why this could be the case. Ms A says none of 
these reasons applied to her, so she called up to understand why, and was told Barclays 
dont have to give her a reason. Ms A says this person then refused to speak to her, which 
aggravated her anxiety, because she believed a declined application would affect her credit 
score. 
Ms A says she was then contacted by Barclays again, told theyd reverse the decision, but 
this again turned out not to be true. Ms A received a second letter turning down her 
application, for the same reasons as the first letter. She spoke to Barclays who told her there 
was no record of anyone calling her to say theyd grant her credit card application. At this 
point Ms A asked for the record of her application to be deleted, because they wouldnt give 
her a reason. Barclays didnt agree to do this. Unhappy with all of this, Ms A complained.
Barclays replied to the complaint on 5 July 2019. They said Ms As application was originally 
turned down due to a system error. They managed to resolve that, and put her application 
on to the next stage, but then it was turned down legitimately this time. Barclays added 
theyd explained this could happen, when talking about the first application being declined. 
Barclays said sorry for what happened, and explained they understood this has caused 
frustration and upset to Ms A.
As Ms A didnt agree to this, she asked us to look into it. One of our investigators did so, and 
in summary didnt uphold the complaint. She said theyd said sorry for the error in processing 
her first application and had processed the second application as shed expect. She also 
said Barclays didnt need to tell Ms A the reason for declining the application, and it was right 
the entry stays on Ms As credit file.
Ms A didnt agree with this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important here to first explain the role of our service. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service and our role is to look at disputes and decide what we think is the fair and 
reasonable way to resolve matters. Businesses have the right to determine their own internal 
processes using their commercial discretion. Our service is not a regulator, so its not our 
role to interfere with or tell a business that it must alter its processes.So, if Barclays process is not to tell customers why theyve declined a lending application, 
this isnt something I can instruct them to change. This is part of their legitimate commercial 
discretion.
But I can consider whether Barclays have acted fairly in their response to the complaint 
Ms A has raised, and if I dont think they have, then I could award compensation. I can also 
direct Barclays to remove the information theyve recorded on her credit file  if I thought that 
was appropriate.
Its been accepted by Barclays they made an error in first declining the application  so Ive 
looked at whether Barclays have done enough to put this right.
Barclays have explained the first application was declined due to a system error. Ms A was 
told about this on 27 June 2019, and said she was confused as none of the reasons given 
for the decline applied to her. So, she called Barclays to discuss this issue.
Ive listened to this call. I think Barclays accepted theyd made a mistake and explained what 
they were going to do to put it right. Ms A has said she was told her application was now 
granted, but I can hear on the call the adviser explains theyll pass her application through to 
be considered again  but it may still be turned down. So, Ive not seen or heard anything to 
show she was told her application had now been approved  and unfortunately for Ms A it 
was turned down the second time it was considered.
In this call Barclays said sorry for what happened, and in their subsequent correspondence. 
So, although they did make a mistake, I think they quickly put it right, and said sorry. 
Because of that, I dont think Barclays need to pay Ms A any compensation.
I note Ms A is also unhappy that Barclays wont remove the record of her application from 
her credit file. I understand Ms As point here  she doesnt want a record of a declined 
application to be shown because of potential future lending applications. But, as part of the 
application process Ms A did agree for information about searches to be recorded on her 
credit file. And Barclays have processed her application in line with that  so I cant 
reasonably say theyre required to remove that search.
Ms A has told us this situation has affected her mentally, and Im genuinely sorry to hear 
that. But for the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied Barclays have acted fairly in their 
response to her complaint, so I dont require Barclays to do anything further.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My decisionIt follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman