DRN-3670522
The complaint
Mr O complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited took too long to repair his vehicle, 
which he uses for work purposes.
What happened
Mr O was involved in an accident on the 19 August 2021. His vehicle was collected 
and the repair costs submitted to Haven. Haven confirmed the costs on the 
3 September 2021.
 
On 22 November 2021 Mr O complained to Haven because his vehicle hadnt been 
returned. Haven emailed Mr O in December, January and February with updates, 
after Mr O chased, but with no conclusion to their investigation into the complaint.
Mr O couldnt work as a taxi driver for the first 6 weeks, from the 19 August 2021, he 
then hired a car at a cost of £235 a week so that he could work.
Mr O raised his complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service on the 12 January 
2022. Haven issued their final response on the 14 March 2022 and accepted that it 
was at fault for the delay between the 6 September and 26 November (81 days in 
total). It offered £250 in compensation for the delay. The car was still with the garage 
and awaiting a part.
Haven explained in its response that on 6 September 2021 an order was placed with 
the supplier for the parts. On the 26 November it was discovered that the order was 
incorrectly sent. The order was sent correctly on the 26 November. 
The investigator upheld the complaint and recommended:
othe £250 that had been offered by Haven.
othat Haven pay 40% of Mr Os hire car costs. The investigator acknowledged 
that car hire was excluded under the policy but on the basis of the 
unnecessary delays, which Haven accepted, she believed it was fair and 
reasonable for Haven to contribute to these costs. 
oMr O had requested loss of earnings. The investigator didnt award these as 
there wasnt evidence of these costs.
Haven didnt respond and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Mr O 
has since noted that during the time the car was with the garage he still paid his 
premium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered this complaint up to the point of the final response on the 14 March 
2022. I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Os car has been in the garage awaiting repairs for over 7 months. It has 
been highlighted that there were external factors contributing to these delays, 
which include the parts needing to be sent from the United States of America 
and global impact on transportation at this time. For some of this time the 
garage was chasing the parts. 
Haven accepts there was an unnecessary delay of 81 days (12 weeks). As 
with the investigator, I acknowledge that car hire costs are excluded under the 
policy, however, as these delays were Havens responsibility, I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Haven to pay the car hire costs in full for 12 weeks, the 
same period they caused the delay. 
Haven offered Mr O £250 in compensation for the unnecessary delays, 
however, I dont think this reflects the full distress and inconvenience for Mr 
O, who had to:
ochase Haven throughout this time for updates, 
owait from the 22 November 2021 to the 14 March 2022 to get an 
answer on what was going on, and 
omake extended arrangements for car hire. 
I think a distress and inconvenience payment of £750 would be fair in the 
circumstances.
I agree with the investigator that there isnt evidence for loss of earnings 
because in hiring the car Mr O was able to work. The initial 6 weeks where he 
was without car were to be expected and wouldnt have been covered under 
his policy. 
Mr O has noted that he had to pay his insurance premiums during the time 
that it was with the garage. During this time Haven was still on risk even 
though Mr O didnt have use of the vehicle.
Mr O and Haven responded to the provisional decision and said there was nothing further to 
add. My decision therefore remains the same.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Os 
complaint, I direct Haven to:
pay Mr O 12 weeks of car hire costs at £235 a week. 
increase its distress and inconvenience payment to £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Rachel Lam
Ombudsman