DRN-2315472
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi is responsible for a loan 
she didnt know she had and wont let her out of it.
 
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs A says she was sold a pay monthly online education course for children 
by a course provider. She says she came across the course provider through the school her 
child attends. Duologi says she took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over four years with it 
to pay for this online educational course.
In March 2019 she tried to stop paying the monthly licence as she refers to it. In her 
correspondence with Duologi she makes repeatedly clear that she didnt know shed been 
sold a loan. She offers to pay the outstanding monthly payments but Duologi say shes 
responsible for the total amount of credit (which was just short of four thousand pounds at 
the time the agreement was signed in 2018).
No agreement was reached so Mrs A complained. Duologi said theyd done nothing wrong. 
As Mrs A wasnt making the repayments under the loan Duologi went on to issue her a 
default notice and then a notice of termination in 2019. It then passed the matter on to a debt 
collection agency. So Mrs A brought her complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Mrs As complaint, but Duologi didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A says she received a leaflet via her childs school offering the services of the course 
provider Ive referred to, to help with educating children. She expressed an interest in 
learning more about this, and a representative visited her home on 20 June 2018. By the 
end of this meeting Mrs A had purchased an educational course for children. It appears the 
representative was acting for both the course provider and Duologi during the sales process. 
The total price of the course was £3960 of which £3915 was paid for with a loan from 
Duologi which was arranged by the representative. The loan was interest free and was to 
run for 48 months. 
Mrs A has been very clear and consistent in her representations that during the meeting with 
the representative they understood the situation was that they had a service which was pay 
monthly. From the time she tried to stop paying she has made clear she was unaware that 
she had a loan. In response to the default notice she offers to make the monthly payments 
shes missed and return the laptop provided if Duologi would stop pursuing her.
She says the first time she realised that she had a credit facility with Duologi was when she 
tried to stop paying for the monthly licence. In essence Mrs A is saying she believed her 
monthly payments were for a subscription service.
Duologi didnt sell Mrs A the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mrs A due 
to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mrs 
A entered with Duologi is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which 
provide her with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the 
agent of Duologi during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs A entering into the 
loan agreement, beginning with the first communication she received from the course 
provider. In essence this means Duologi can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs A to hold 
Duologi liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made in 
relation to the purchase of the course.
Duologi has pointed to a number of documents which were either electronically signed or 
initialled and signed by hand by Mrs A on the day in question. She accepts that she 
completed documents. Duologis position essentially is that the documentary evidence from 
the point of sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mrs A agreed to 
everything in those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of 
what happened here. What was said by the representative is also important as the 
discussion will have started before the paperwork was signed. And Mrs A would have 
considered what the representative said in her decision making during the sale.
Mrs A has been consistent in two particular areas, firstly that she believed at the time (and 
until she discovered differently when she tried to cancel the monthly payments) that she was 
paying a monthly subscription for the course. She says she believed this because this is 
what the representative told her. Secondly she believed she could cancel this course at any 
time and that she didnt discover this wasnt the case until when she did try to cancel the 
licence. Similarly she believed this because this was what the representative told her.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mrs A placed on what the 
representative told her. And I also think the context of the origin of this relationship is a key 
consideration. Mrs A says she became aware of the provider of the course through her 
childs school. My understanding is that this marketing approach was common place by the 
course provider. I think a parent receiving an introduction such as this from their childs 
school would view this as at least an implicit endorsement or recommendation. I think this 
would have made Mrs A more likely to trust what she was being told by the representative in 
this case.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider and it using credit providers such as Duologi. These include the common 
themes of people understanding that they could cancel at any time and that they were paying on a subscription or pay as you go type arrangement. I havent seen anything that 
connects these complainants other than they were sold courses such as this by the course 
provider and often took finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives 
always provided misleading or untrue information. But it does show that there was a 
significant risk that such representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being 
entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the 
situation differently to that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the related company operated informally a 
longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can see the 
existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential 
source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion 
that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Mrs A has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mrs A was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by Duologi. I 
think it likely she was told that she was paying a subscription type service which could be 
ended without issue. And it was on this basis she entered into the agreement. And similarly I 
think it is on this basis things should be put right. And as Ive described due to the operation 
of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs A can hold Duologi liable for the 
incorrect information provided by the representative in this case. So Duologi needs to do 
something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator Duologi has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly that the paperwork was signed by Mrs A isnt disputed. But importantly 
the key issue here is what was said to Mrs A before and whilst she signed that 
documentation and what she relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more importantly 
Duologi has only described what it considers what would have been said and done by its 
representative not what was actually said. It hasnt provided the representatives comments 
on the matter. Mrs A was there in person and heard what was actually said and I find her 
comments persuasive. And along with what Ive already said with regards to sales such as 
this more broadly and considering what this service knows of sales such as this means I 
consider it fair on balance that Duologi put things right in this particular case.
 
Putting things right
I direct Duologi to take the following actions:
Cap Mrs As liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date she first contacted either the course provider or Duologi to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mrs A has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date she
made each overpayment, to the date she receives a refund.
If Mrs A has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mrs As credit file and 
mark it as settled from the first date she contacted either the course provider or 
Duologi to cancel. If Mrs A has not paid up to this capped liability then Duologi does 
not need to mark the loan as settled until she has paid up to the cap.Arrange with Mrs A for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else 
she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under 
the contract. I understand the laptop has already been returned.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Duologi to take tax off this interest. Duologi must
give Mrs A the certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mrs A asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Specialist Lending Limited 
trading as Duologi and direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman