DRN-2799651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 December 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Ms policy covered 
them between 2 December 2019 and 1 December 2020. The policy cost Mr and Mrs M 
£546.39, which included a discount of £34.87. The price also included optional add-on cruise 
plus cover which Mr and Mrs M paid £86.22 for. The premium included cover for several 
medical conditions for both Mr and Mrs M.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their planned cruise in March 
2020. And on 29 April 2020, they got in touch with their broker to cancel the policy and 
request a refund, although the policy wasnt cancelled until 13 May 2020.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs M a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them the following 
options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This would be a 12-month 
policy at current market rates. A policyholder can choose to start the policy at any 
time within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with the potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Great Lakes calculated that the pro-rata credit voucher Mr and Mrs M were due was 
£240.13. It didnt offer a pro-rata refund of the premium Mr and Mrs M had paid for the cruise 
plus cover.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes offer was fair. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She also 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 2 December 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs M a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. And she didnt think the terms of the voucher were 
overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs M a cash 
refund of their premium.
But ultimately, she concluded that as Mr and Mrs M had asked to cancel their policy on 29 
April 2020; the refund should be backdated to that date. And she also didnt think it was fair 
for Great Lakes not to refund any of the premium Mr and Mrs M had paid for the cruise plus 
cover. So she recommended that Great Lakes should also pay a pro-rata refund of the 
additional premium.
Great Lakes agreed with the investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said that the Foreign & Commonwealth Office had made 
travel impossible and so they werent able to benefit from the insurance. As Great Lakes 
wasnt able to provide a service during this time, they said the Competitions & Markets 
Authority (CMA) had advised full refunds should be given. If they accepted Great Lakes 
offer, they would bear all the risks of taking out a policy with no guarantee that theyll ever be 
able to use it, given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I wrote to Great Lakes to explain that I didnt 
think a pro-rata refund of premium for the cruise plus cover was fair and reasonable. Thats 
because cruise plus cover only applies to claims which might arise while a policyholder is 
travelling on their cruise. As Mr and Mrs Ms cruise holiday was cancelled, I didnt think 
Great Lakes had borne any risk of them making a claim under this section of the policy. So I 
asked Great Lakes whether it would recalculate the refund offer, offering a full refund of 
premium for the cruise plus cover.
Great Lakes agreed to recalculate its offer. Its current voucher offer is for a total amount of 
£351.88, which includes a full refund for the cruise plus cover. The voucher can be used 
right away and put towards one of the three options Ive explained above.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day coolingoff period no premium will
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical
conditions.I think Great Lakes offer is fair because:
The policy was taken out on 2 December 2019 and it wasnt cancelled until 29 April
2020. This means I think the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period. And
so, there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great
Lakes to offer a refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended.
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ms cooling-off period ended on 16 December 2019. But the
policy wasnt cancelled until 29 April 2020. So the cancellation was outside of the
14-day cooling-off period. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled
for reasons outside of their control; I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to
use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I
think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes
entitle them to any refund of premiums.
Ive taken into account though what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs
M with a credit voucher for the unused portion of their cover, which also includes a 
full refund for the cruise plus cover is fair and reasonable.
I say that because Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 366-day period if the
policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 217 
days of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying 
any risk of Mr and Mrs M making a claim after that point. I agree with the investigator 
that it was fair for Great Lakes to backdate the cancellation date to the date Mr and 
Mrs M first asked to cancel their policy. And as Ive explained, I think its also fair for 
Great Lakes to refund the full premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their cruise plus cover, 
because I dont think Great Lakes bore any risk of them making a claim under this 
section of cover.  I was pleased to note that Great Lakes accepted my 
recommendations on this point and recalculated the refund due accordingly. Ive 
checked Great Lakes refund calculation and Im satisfied it was correct. 
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of
this case. I say that because while I appreciate travel plans are still uncertain, Great
Lakes credit voucher can be put towards one of the three options Ive outlined above 
for a new annual policy, including UK-only cover, meaning that Mr and Mrs M will 
likely be able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. As such, I dont 
think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed in my
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums or do
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to backdate cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms policy to 29 
April 2020 and to include a full refund of premium for the cruise plus cover in its credit 
voucher calculation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman