DRN-3673371
The complaint
Miss F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments she says she did not 
make. 
What happened
Miss F holds a current account with HSBC. She says that on 21 October 2021 she lost her 
card after using it at an ATM. Miss F says that cash withdrawals, online payments, and 
payments at retail stores were then made over the following 5 days totalling over £26,000. 
Miss F says that she had received phone calls around this time and believes fraudsters 
firstly tricked her into making payments herself, and then made further payments without her 
permission.
Miss F flagged these transactions and HSBC investigated, but it decided not to refund the 
disputed payments. It didnt agree that there was evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought 
Miss F had authorised the withdrawals or made them herself.
As Miss F didnt agree with HSBCs decision, she asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they 
explained that they felt there was evidence to suggest that Miss F had authorised the 
payments or allowed them to be made.
Miss F asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Miss F is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, I think the key question here is whether HSBC has acted fairly in concluding that Miss F 
did authorise the disputed withdrawals.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Fs genuine card details, or card 
and PIN, were used to make the disputed payments. But the regulations relevant to this case 
say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold her liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss F consented to 
the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Miss F 
authorised the withdrawals. This is because:
Miss F has confirmed that she did make some transfers herself during this period  and 
at least one of those transfers was made from the same IP address as a payment she 
says she did not make  meaning it was made from the same physical location. No 
explanation has been provided as to why a fraudster would have made payments from 
the same location as Miss F.
HSBCs records show that Miss F was logging into her mobile banking throughout 22 
October 2021, but she did not flag any of the payments made that day as fraudulent
Miss F spoke to HSBC on 22 October 2021 when it contacted her to check payments to 
a grocery store were legitimate. Miss F ultimately did confirm those payments were 
legitimate  although she has since said they were not  but her main focus during that 
call seems to have been getting her debit card unblocked. Its not clear why Miss F felt it 
so important to be able to unblock her card at this stage given that she has said she had 
already lost it.
There are inconsistencies in what Miss F has told us may have happened and what she 
has said to HSBC  specifically around whether she shared her PIN with any possible 
fraudster.
I acknowledge what Miss F has told us about the calls she says she received  where she 
feels she was manipulated into giving details or approving payments. I also acknowledge the 
detail shes given us about her medical history  I know it cant have been easy for her to 
share that with us. But even with everything shes told us in mind, I dont consider that what 
she has said happened  that she lost her card at an ATM and that a fraudster then 
contacted her on the phone and used personal information about her to convince her they 
were calling from HSBC  is the most plausible version of events here. 
As well as the points detailed above, I also question how a fraudster who found or stole her 
card would then have been able to get hold of her contact details or other details about her. 
And as noted above, the evidence HSBC has provided suggests that Miss F was present 
when at least some of the payments in dispute were made.
So with everything Ive seen, I consider it is more likely than not that Miss F did authorise 
these payments  or otherwise allow them to be made  and it follows that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to refuse to refund them to her. I know this will be very disappointing 
for Miss F, but I wont be asking HSBC to refund the disputed payments to her.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman