DRN-3235392
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim for costs 
following the curtailment of their holiday.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance through their packaged bank account, which is 
underwritten by UKI. They travelled abroad on 13 March 2020, to their initial destination and 
were due to travel onward to a nearby group of islands. 
On 14 March 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office advised against all but essential travel to the country Mr and Mrs L were 
visiting. So, Mr and Mrs L changed their return flight to an earlier flight back to the UK, 
leaving on 18 March 2020. They remained at their first destination, staying in a hotel until 
they could return home. And they had to return to a different airport in the UK, much further 
from where they live, as flight options were limited.
Mr and Mrs L received a refund from their travel provider for their onward travel and 
accommodation relating to the islands theyd planned to visit. And they made a claim against 
their policy for costs including the four nights they stayed in a hotel, their return flights to the 
UK, and car hire due to returning to a different UK airport. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy sets out the curtailment cover as follows. 
We will cover you for your:
Unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities);
Reasonable additional accommodation costs to allow you to return home early; and
Reasonable additional travel costs that allow you to return home early if you cannot 
use your return ticket that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably 
need to abandon your trip while you are away for one of the following reasons:
.The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your destination, providing the advice came into force after your 
departure on your trip.
If you booked your flight or accommodation with Avios or similar promotional 
schemes we will pay for the cost of replacing the used points or miles, or if replacing 
points or miles is not possible, a monetary alternative at the current published rate. 
UKI declined the claim. It said Mr and Mrs L hadnt incurred any additional costs in changing 
the date of their return flight with the airline. And in respect of the other elements of the 
claim, it said the refund Mr and Mrs L received from their travel provider outweighed the 
costs they incurred, so there was no loss.
Mr and Mrs L complained. And UKI said it thought its claim decision had been correct, as Mr 
and Mrs L hadnt incurred additional costs above what they had originally paid for their flights 
and accommodation. However it said its communication throughout the claim had been poor, 
and paid £100 in compensation. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. They 
said although they had paid for part of their flights using airmiles, the policy says it will pay 
the cost of replacing these, or a monetary equivalent. And they said their other costs 
including accommodation and car hire were additional costs, and should also be covered. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and ultimately said they thought UKI 
hadnt unfairly declined the claim for the flight and accommodation costs. However, they 
thought UKI should pay the claim for the additional expense of car hire. 
UKI made no further comments. However Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say UKI has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
UKI said it accepted it had communicated poorly with Mr and Mrs L during the claims 
process, causing delays. And it paid £100 in compensation. As it seems this matter was not 
in dispute by Mr and Mrs L when they brought their complaint to our service, I wont 
comment on it further in this decision. 
Mr and Mrs L have said their trip was a total waste of their time and money. I can appreciate 
their feeling on this, and understand how disappointed they must have been to be unable to 
reach their ultimate destination and enjoy their holiday as planned. However, their travel 
insurance policy does not cover loss of enjoyment. So, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs L 
would like UKI to pay all of the costs relating to their return flights to the UK and hotel 
accommodation, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct UKI in that way. And Ill explain why. 
Flight costs 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy is designed to cover additional travel expenses in the event of a 
curtailment, such as in the circumstances of this case. However, they travelled on both their 
outbound and return flights. The costs of these would always have been incurred had the trip 
gone to plan, and Mr and Mrs L didnt have to pay anything more to change the date of their 
return flight to the UK. So I dont think its unfair that UKI didnt consider the cost to be an 
additional travel expense. 
Had they been unable to amend their original return flights with the airline, Mr and Mrs L 
have said another option was to book with a different airline at a cost of €3,000 each. And 
they believe in this scenario, UKI would have covered the costs of those flights. Ive thought 
about this, and the implication of the airmiles which were used to book the original flights, 
and still used once the flights were amended. And Ive considered the policy terms around curtailment, including the clause around 
airmiles. But I dont think UKI needed to cover any of the cost of new return flights to the UK, 
unless this was over and above the cost of the original flights. 
Mr and Mrs L used airmiles to pay for part of their flights, and these have a monetary value. 
So they received a refund of the airmiles used in respect of their original return flights to the 
UK, and paid in cash for the new flights, it would still only be reasonable to expect UKI to 
cover any difference in costs, over and above the cash value of the original flights. And as 
Ive explained, Mr and Mrs L didnt have to pay anything extra to change the date of their 
flights back to the UK, so Im satisfied there was no additional travel expense which UKI 
should cover.
Accommodation costs
Mr and Mrs Ls trip was due to last for around 10 nights, and they had accommodation 
booked for each night of their stay, which was a combination of hotel and boat 
accommodation. When Mr and Mrs L had to cut their trip short, they didnt join their originally 
booked boat trip, and received a refund from the travel provider. And they booked alternative 
hotel accommodation at their initial destination, to use until they were able to fly home. 
UKI has said it doesnt consider this hotel accommodation cost to be an additional travel 
expense, as the refund Mr and Mrs L received outweighs the costs they had to pay. In line 
with the policy terms, Mr and Mrs L were entitled to claim for reasonable additional 
accommodation costs to allow them to return home early. And they would always have 
needed accommodation for each night they were abroad, whether this had been on a boat 
as planned, or in a hotel. So some costs would always have been incurred for 
accommodation. 
Ive considered the cost of the four nights Mr and Mrs L spent in the hotel, alongside the 
costs of the boat accommodation which was refunded. And as the hotel stay for four nights 
cost less than the same proportion of the originally planned boat accommodation, I dont 
think it unfair that UKI declined to cover the hotel costs because theres effectively no 
monetary loss here. 
Car hire
Mr and Mrs L claimed for the costs of car hire to get home on their return to the UK. Their 
original return flights were to a UK airport closer to where they live, and theyd parked their 
car at that airport. When attempting to arrange flights to return to the UK early due to the 
restrictions, they were unable to book flights to their closest airport. 
The flight they ultimately booked was to a different part of the UK, and they hired a car to 
enable them to return home. This is an expense Mr and Mrs L would not have had to pay 
had their trip gone according to plan, as they would have returned to the airport where their 
car was parked. Im persuaded this is a reasonable additional travel cost and is covered by 
the terms. So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances, that UKI cover the cost of 
the car hire. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. And I 
direct UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim for the cost of their car hire, subject 
to any applicable excess. Plus interest at 8% from the date the claim was originally declined, 
to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman