DRN-3104456
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (AFS), acted when he asked for assistance with payments on his hire 
purchase agreement.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by Ms B. But for ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr B 
throughout my decision.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement for 48 
months. Mr B complains about the following:
Payment deferral not being offered to Mr B
 
In mid-March 2020, Mr B contacted AFS to let them know he wasnt working due to Covid-
19. Mr B explained he was on limited income and that he wouldnt be able to continue with 
the monthly payments until the Covid-19 lockdown ended. As a result, Mr B asked for a 
payment deferral. AFS responded to Mr B and asked for some more information about his 
financial circumstances at the time and also asked him to fill out an income and expenditure 
form. 
Mr B questioned why he had to complete this form as he didnt think it was necessary for a 
payment deferral to be put in place. AFS say they told Mr B on 9 April 2020 a payment 
deferral wasnt available. So instead, they wrote to Mr B and offered him breathing space for 
60 days  meaning they wouldnt contact Mr B for payment during this time and that theyd 
monitor his credit file, removing any adverse information which may appear. At the same 
time, AFS apologised to Mr B for the service he received and the lack of communication 
from them. In recognition of this, AFS refunded the monthly payment taken in April which 
was for £264.21 as compensation which Mr B wasnt required to pay back. AFS say when 
payment deferrals were specifically set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
guidelines titled Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms 
on 27 April 2020, Mr B didnt make an application for this.
The 60 days breathing space came to an end in June 2020. Mr B contacted AFS in August 
2020 to let them know hed started working again and wanted to reinstate his direct debit 
from September 2020. AFS say they advised Mr B there was £1,056.84 outstanding under 
the agreement for missed payments in May to August 2020. And that this had the potential 
to impact his credit file  AFS say it was standard practice to advise this. Mr B asked to have 
all the missed payments classed as deferral payments, as hed heard of many lenders and 
finance providers offering this to their customers at the time.
On 29 September 2020, AFS say Mr B contacted them and asked for the four months 
missed payments to be added to the end of the agreement. AFS then advised Mr B on 2 
October 2020 that they were unable to do this and an arrangement to pay was set up. AFS 
say this was because Mr B hadnt made an application for deferred payments when this 
option became available to customers with finance. And so, as the balance Mr B was paying 
was an arrears balance, being paid through an arrangement to pay, the length of the 
agreement couldnt be extended. 
Our investigator said AFS hadnt done anything wrong in not offering Mr B a payment 
deferral when he first contacted them. She also said Mr B confirmed the repayment of the 
missed payments was affordable at an additional £45.95 a month. However, our investigator 
thought AFS should have made clear why they werent allowing the payments to be added to 
the end of the agreement. In order to put things right in relation to this part of Mr Bs 
complaint, our investigator initially recommended that AFS treat any missed payment as a 
payment deferral and apply the full benefits of a payment deferral as per the FCA guidance. 
This includes having the option of adding the missed payments to the end of the agreement, 
although she explained this may be more costly in the long term, due to the interest.
Adverse information being recorded on Mr Bs credit file
When Mr B contacted AFS to let them know hed started working again and wanted to start 
making the repayments from September 2020, AFS say they let Mr B know he was in 
arrears by £1,056.84 - they say this was because they didnt receive any payments towards 
Mr Bs agreement in May, June, July or August 2020.
Mr B was unhappy about this. He said he was previously told by AFS that the payment
holiday would be extended until October 2020. While neither party have been able to provide 
us with evidence of this, AFS agreed to amend Mr Bs credit file on a monthly basis to show 
no adverse information until the arrears were cleared. AFS agreed to do this as they 
acknowledged the arrears were as a result of Covid-19. 
Our investigator said there were occasions where Mr B made AFS aware of the adverse 
information being reported on his credit file, despite AFS saying theyd make a manual 
adjustment to this each month. 
Our investigator also acknowledged that AFS refunded Mr B his April 2020 monthly 
payment. And that they gifted Mr B an experience day as a way to say sorry for the 
inconvenience caused. However, our investigator felt Mr B had experienced further trouble 
and upset such as adverse information continuing to be reported on his credit file. So, she 
recommended AFS pay Mr B £100 compensation in recognition of the upset caused. Our 
investigator also recommended that Mr Bs credit file is updated permanently so there isnt a 
short period of time where his account will show its in arrears, unless he falls behind on a 
contractual monthly payment. 
Customer service issues
Mr B has also complained about the customer service he received from AFS. Hes described 
several instances where he wasnt able to reach AFS successfully and that it took several 
attempts before getting a response from them in relation to his request for a payment 
deferral. AFS acknowledged Mr Bs frustrations and difficulties he faced in contacting them 
to arrange for a break in his payments during Covid-19. However, they explained, due to this 
unprecedented time, they had a very short time to adapt and deal with such sudden demand 
in customer contact. AFS apologised and explained this was why they refunded the April 
2020 payment Mr B made.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns in relation to this part of his complaint. She 
acknowledged the frustration and upset caused to Mr B. But having considered the strain on 
AFS services due to Covid-19, our investigator couldnt see any significant delays had been 
caused. In addition to this, Mr B is unhappy AFS sent him two letters  one was a letter notifying him 
he was in breach of his contract and the other was a notice of sum in arrears. Mr B said 
these shouldnt have been sent as hed agreed to a payment arrangement. AFS 
acknowledged these were sent in error and explained that this wasnt a payment demand, 
but rather a statement that they said had to be sent to Mr B. AFS also explained that whilst 
Mr B agreed to a payment plan, he may still have received these letters. Our investigator 
also acknowledged that letters were sent to Mr B requesting a full payment of the arrears, 
which caused Mr B inconvenience and distress. 
Since our investigator issued her view, AFS have let us know the agreement has now been 
settled and the total outstanding balance was cleared. They said Mr B part exchanged this 
car for another car and a new agreement was taken out in July 2021, to finance the new car. 
Therefore, the investigators initial recommendations for how AFS should be reporting 
information on Mr Bs credit file and also allowing him the option of adding the missed 
payments to the end of the agreement isnt possible now. AFS have confirmed that all 
adverse information on Mr Bs credit file has been amended. AFS also agreed to the 
investigators recommendation that they should pay £100 compensation in recognition of the 
upset caused to Mr B.
We let Mr B know AFS updated position and asked if this resolved matters for him. 
However, Mr B said it didnt. In fact, Mr B applied for a new mobile phone contract however, 
this was declined due to adverse information on his credit file. Mr B made AFS aware of this 
in July 2021 and they said they amended this as soon as they could. Mr B said he asked 
AFS to pay for the alloy wheels of the new car to be sprayed in recognition of the 
embarrassment caused. AFS said they contacted the retailer Mr B was purchasing his new 
car from and as a gesture of goodwill, paid Mr B £360  which was the amount required for 
the alloy wheel spray. While Mr B accepted this, he says he wants more compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused him. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision setting out the below:
Id like to firstly say Im sorry to hear of the stress and anxiety this issue has caused Mr B. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr B and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by Mr B. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Payment deferral not being offered to Mr B 
Mr B doesnt find AFS explanation that a payment deferral wasnt an option when he 
originally requested one, to be fair. Especially as Mr B said hed been granted payment 
deferrals on his other lending at the time.
I appreciate Mr Bs concerns about what AFS told him at the time. However, the FCAs 
guidance on Covid-19 for car finance firms set out payment deferrals for hire purchase 
agreements like Mr Bs and this came into effect on 27 April 2020. So, while a payment 
deferral hadnt yet been set out as an option in the FCA guidance when Mr B first contacted 
AFS, AFS were still expected to treat him with forbearance and due consideration if he was 
in default or in arrears as set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.4.While Mr B wasnt in arrears and the account wasnt defaulted, Mr B made it clear to AFS 
that he wasnt receiving much of an income and that there was no way he could continue to 
make the monthly payments until the Covid-19 lockdown ended. As Mr B expressed his 
concerns about keeping up this financial commitment, I dont think it was unfair for AFS to 
ask Mr B to complete an income and expenditure form to assess his financial situation. I say 
this because the FCA guidance on payment deferrals for agreements like Mr B hadnt yet 
been formalised. So AFS needed to assess what Mr B was able to repay given what hed 
told them about his circumstances at the time. I also think AFS treated Mr B with due 
consideration by offering him 60 days breathing space from April 2020  this meant no 
payment was required from Mr B for 60 days.
AFS say Mr B never applied for a payment deferral once the guidance called Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms came into effect. From the 
contact notes provided by AFS, I cant see Mr B contacted them after the 60 days breathing 
space had ended. I can see first contact was made in August 2020. Mr B says he was under 
the impression the breathing space period would be extended until October 2020, but Ive 
seen no evidence to persuade me that this is what was agreed.
Ive looked at the letter AFS wrote to Mr B confirming the 60-day breathing space. I can see 
they said after this period, theyd work with Mr B to agree a suitable and affordable plan to 
pay the amounts Mr B was unable to due to Covid-19. But I think AFS could have been 
clearer on explaining the next steps when agreeing to the breathing space. 
In addition to this, the FCA guidance came into effect very soon into Mr Bs 60 day breathing 
space. So, I think AFS could have contacted Mr B to let him know that although he was 
given a breathing space, that payment deferrals were now option  especially given AFS 
were aware Mr B had initially wanted a payment deferral and that hed been impacted by 
Covid-19. I appreciate AFS customer contact had increased due to Covid-19, however, I 
dont think this shouldve prevented them from contacting Mr B.
AFS say they hadnt received payments towards Mr Bs agreement in May, June, July or 
August 2020. So, AFS say this meant there was £1,056.84 due. AFS have told us that 
because Mr B never applied for a payment deferral, these missed payments were being 
treated as arrears rather than missed payments under a payment deferral. Mr Bs unhappy 
with this as he doesnt think AFS should be reporting the missed payments as arrears. Given 
the 60 days breathing space started from April 2020, I dont think its fair to say Mr B 
necessarily missed payments in May  as this was covered by the 60 days where AFS said 
no payment would be due for these months and that theyd continue to monitor 
Mr Bs credit file to ensure no adverse information was recorded for this period. 
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for AFS to offer Mr B the breathing space when they did. I 
acknowledge Covid-19 had an impact on AFS but it also had an impact on Mr B too  it was 
a difficult time for both parties. So, while I appreciate Mr B could have contacted AFS at the 
end of the breathing space period, I think AFS could have contacted Mr B to mention the 
payment deferrals availability once the measures came into effect. The FCA guidance called 
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms says this 
guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably expect to 
experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus. Where a customer was 
in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC 
would continue to apply. So, with this in mind, I think its fair to say that the missed 
payments should be treated as payment deferrals. I acknowledge this hasnt been possible 
(as the agreement has since been settled) and AFS offered to remove adverse information 
from Mr Bs credit file, which seems fair to me.Mr B is unhappy he wasnt given the option to add the payments to the end of the 
agreement. I think there are instances where AFS should have probably given Mr B the 
option to do this as per the FCA guidance. But in this case, from what I can see, AFS 
contacted Mr B in October 2020 and offered to set up an arrangement to pay over the 
remaining term for the missed payments. Mr B confirmed the repayment of the missed 
payments was affordable at £45.95 per month in addition to the monthly payments for the 
remaining term of the agreement. As Mr B confirmed it was affordable for him, I think it was 
fair for AFS to do this. In any event, the agreement has now been settled so there doesnt 
seem to be significant detriment caused.
Adverse information being recorded on Mr Bs credit file
AFS let Mr B know when they wrote to him confirming the 60 days breathing space that 
theyd review and amend his credit file to show no adverse information on a monthly basis. 
On more than one occasion, Mr B made AFS aware of their failings to update his credit file 
and therefore, adverse information had appeared. Mr B has described the stress and 
inconvenience this has had on his health.
I think its likely there was going to be a greater risk of there being an issue with the updates 
to Mr Bs credit file happening on time, given AFS were relying on manually adjusting this 
each month. Whilst AFS reassured Mr B the adverse information would only show for a 
small period of time, it still wouldve been worrying for Mr B as he wasnt given a specific 
timeframe the adverse information would be removed by. Ive also seen information to show 
that Mr B had to contact AFS several times to remind them to remove the adverse 
information.
AFS have since provided us with information to show the account was settled in July 2021. 
And they said it wouldve likely taken a month before Mr Bs credit file reflects this update. 
For the avoidance of doubt, AFS should ensure theres no previous record of missed 
payments in relation to the deferral period.
 
Customer service issues
Mr B has also described the number of times hes tried to get through to AFS and has been 
unsuccessful. I understand Mr B found this deeply frustrating and I can understand why  he 
was concerned about the potential impact the adverse information would have on his credit 
file. Having looked through AFS contact notes and the emails Mr B has provided us with, I 
note there have been times where AFS have taken a week or so to respond to Mr B. I 
understand Mr B wanted this issue resolved quickly and he wanted to know if his request for 
a payment deferral had been honoured when requesting it in March 2020. But this was at an 
unprecedented time where a lot of businesses were dealing with an increase in demand 
from customers who had been impacted by Covid-19. As AFS explained, they had a very 
short time to adapt and deal with such sudden demand in contact from their customers  and 
I dont find the time AFS took to respond unreasonable in such circumstances.
AFS sent a letter to Mr B in October 2020 letting him know he was in breach of his contract 
as he hadnt paid the outstanding balance (which AFS have referred to as the arrears) due 
under the agreement. AFS acknowledged this letter was sent out in error as it had been 
generated automatically. 
 
AFS then sent the notice of sum in arrears letter in error to Mr B in November 2020. AFS 
explained that this wasnt a payment demand and instead, was a statement to advise Mr B 
his arrears. AFS said they probably could have explained this better to Mr B previously.Its clear AFS have acknowledged they could have done things better here and I agree. I 
think they could have explained what the notice of sum in arrears letter was beforehand to 
manage Mr Bs expectations and to avoid causing him further distress and worry. I also think 
AFS couldve got in contact with Mr B sooner as it wasnt until Mr B contacted them in 
August 2020 that they let him know the missed payments were due. 
I note Mr B has sent us comments from online forums about AFS and their service. 
However, Im only looking at the specific circumstances of Mr Bs complaint and not those of 
the online forums. And as explained above, there are instances where I think AFS could 
have done more.
Putting things right
I acknowledge Ms B, Mr Bs representative, has told us about the impact this complaint has 
had on her  shes provided us with detail about the time shes spent trying to resolve things 
for Mr B. Whilst I note AFS sent Ms B flowers to say sorry for the distress caused to her, I 
must make it clear that we generally dont ask a business to make awards for trouble and 
upset caused to representatives of consumers. So, while I acknowledge what Ms B has told 
us about the stress and inconvenience this issue has caused her, Im not planning on asking 
AFS to compensate her.
I understand Mr B is looking for a considerable amount of compensation to recognise the 
issues hes experienced. Mr B has also said AFS should be fined for their failings and poor 
customer service. Its important to stress that our service doesnt punish or fine a business 
for getting things wrong. Instead, we can award compensation to consumers for any financial 
loss and potential upset and inconvenience caused by a business error.
I can understand the worry Mr B was caused when finding out his credit file had been 
impacted due to the adverse information AFS recorded  especially as AFS had told Mr B 
that theyd monitor this and make manual adjustments. Letters were also sent to Mr B 
incorrectly which caused further worry and concern to Mr B. Ive acknowledged that AFS 
service was impacted due to Covid-19 and I appreciate they may have been difficult to 
successfully get hold of. But I think there were times where they could have communicated 
better with Mr B  especially after the 60-day breathing space had ended.
 
I also think Mr B would have been caused some worry and inconvenience when finding his 
credit file had adverse information, despite AFS telling him theyd make a manual adjustment 
to remove this information each month.
I note the agreement is now settled and therefore, no further adverse information should 
appear on Mr Bs credit file. AFS have reassured us that this agreement will appear as 
settled from mid-August on Mr Bs credit file.
 
I can appreciate why Mr B is asking for a considerable amount of compensation in 
recognition of what went wrong. However, when thinking about fair compensation, Ive also 
taken into consideration whats already been awarded by AFS to Mr B. AFS refunded Mr B 
the monthly payment hed made in April 2020 and this was a total of £264.21. AFS also 
offered Mr B an experience day in recognition of the distress caused. More recently in July 
2021, Mr B told us his credit file had been impacted again. To apologise for this, AFS paid 
£360 for the alloy wheels on Mr Bs car to be sprayed in recognition of the embarrassment 
caused when Mr Bs application for a mobile phone contract got declined. I think this offer 
goes some way to recognise the errors and issues caused.Having thought about the worry and inconvenience Mr B experienced, I currently think AFS 
should pay Mr B £100 compensation. I think in the round, the awards made by AFS and the 
additional £100 fairly compensate Mr B. 
Responses to my provisional decision
AFS responded to my provisional decision, letting me know they accept my findings and had 
no further comments for me to consider. 
Mr B provided several responses disagreeing to my provisional decision. In one of the 
responses, Mr Bs representative said my decision wasnt reflective of Mr Bs complaint in 
any way. I responded and gave them the opportunity to clarify anything they felt wasnt 
understood by 12 October 2021. However, they didnt respond. So, Im treating everything 
that was said in response to my provisional decision as Mr Bs comments. Ive summarised 
these points in my own words. 
Mr B reiterated that he attempted to contact AFS on numerous occasions via different 
methods but had no success. Mr B says the £100 I recommended AFS pay for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him doesnt take into account the time and frustration spent on 
trying to contact them.
Mr B also added AFS failure to offer him a payment deferral was in breach of the FCA 
guidance and that other lenders followed the guidance when they provided him with a 
payment deferral. Mr B said while my provisional decision recognised how AFS eventually 
resolved the issues Mr B faced, it doesnt recognise the effort he had to go through in order 
for AFS to put things right for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B that Ive read all of the responses hes provided to my provisional 
decision. And I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations at the service he received from AFS. However, 
I want to make clear that I dont think its in dispute that AFS got things wrong and there 
were times where they couldve done things better. 
I note Mr B doesnt feel the compensation Ive asked AFS to award sufficiently recognises 
the distress and inconvenience he suffered. But when thinking about this, Ive got to be 
conscious of the fact that AFS rectified matters when they did go wrong, even if this may 
have not been as quickly as expected. 
Ive reconsidered what AFS have already awarded Mr B and this is a total of around £600  
Ive come to this figure by calculating the amount AFS paid Mr B to have his alloy wheels 
sprayed on his new car, the refund of the April 2020 payment Mr B made and the likely cost 
of the experience day AFS awarded Mr B. In considering this, Ive looked at our bands of 
award and I can see this amount fits into the substantial band. Having thought about all of 
this, I think this  and the additional £100  reasonably reflects the overall distress and 
inconvenience Mr B suffered.
I note Mr B has provided us with more customer comments from online forums of the service 
theyve received from AFS. As previously explained, Im only looking into the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be commenting on these extracts any further.
My final decisionFor reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. And I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS) to pay Mr B £100 
compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman