DRN-2103408
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, closed three accounts she 
held with it, without notification. 
Mrs W is being represented by her husband, Mr W, in this complaint. 
What happened
Mrs W held two current accounts and a savings account with first direct. None of the 
accounts had been used since at least 2005, with the savings account having a balance of 
one pence, and the current accounts zero balances. 
Because of the length of time the accounts had been dormant, first direct wrote to Mrs W in 
June 2019 to notify her that the balances were going to be transferred to the government 
under the unclaimed assets scheme. Following the transfer of balances, first direct closed 
Mrs Ws accounts. 
Mr W complained, on behalf of Mrs W, as they hadnt been notified of the account closures. 
first direct didnt uphold the complaint as it said it wrote to Mrs W about the accounts, 
outlining its dormancy policy and the intention to close the accounts, with the most recent 
letters being sent in June 2019. 
Our investigator concluded first direct hadnt done anything wrong, as the balances had 
been transferred in accordance with the Dormant Bank and Building Society Accounts Act 
2008 (the Act). He also concluded the bank had followed industry guidelines following the 
inactivity of the accounts.
Mr W asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He referred to the terms and 
conditions requiring 60 days notice of account closure and the letters sent, though they were 
delivered to a neighbour and so not received at the time, didnt inform Mrs W the accounts 
would be closed. He would therefore like the account re-opened as Mrs W may have a 
possible use for them in the future when opening an account in branch might be more 
difficult. 
The investigator put this to first direct who acknowledged it hadnt provided 60 days notice 
of account closure but was satisfied it had provided appropriate information and advice of 
what would be happening within the accounts. As the investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change his view, the matter was referred to me. 
I issued my provisional decision setting our why I was minded to uphold this complaint and 
award £50 compensation to Mrs W. Both first direct and Mr W have accepted the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the outcome and not provided any further arguments for me 
to consider I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I therefore make them 
final.
I accept Mrs Ws accounts have been dormant for some considerable time (at least 15 
years). And in accordance with the Act first direct was entitled to transfer any existing 
balances to the government scheme.
I also accept Mrs W was notified of the transfer of balances under the scheme in advance. I 
know Mr W say these letters werent delivered to Mrs W as they were delivered to a 
neighbour, but first direct addressed them correctly to Mrs W. I dont hold first direct 
responsible if the letters went astray after dispatch. 
However, I find it difficult to agree that first direct properly notified Mrs W of what would 
happen to her accounts once any balances were transferred to the scheme. The letters sent 
in June 2019, which are the only copies provided by first direct, dont explain anywhere that 
her account would be closed. They only explain balances would be transferred but they 
could be reclaimed. 
Under its own terms and conditions it is explained that first direct can close accounts after 
giving at least two months notice (in some circumstances immediately). So I can understand 
why Mr W believes Mrs W should have been given 60 days notice. However, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions, under the heading The unclaimed assets scheme its 
explained:
Well send you regular reminders while your account is inactive and tell you at least 
30 days before we transfer any money or close any accounts.  [my emphasis] 
In accordance with those terms, Mrs W should have been given 30 days notice of account 
closure. I accept it could be implied from the letters the account would be closed. But Im not 
persuaded leaving a customer to infer the meaning behind correspondence meets its 
obligations to communicate clearly. And first directs own terms dont explain an account will 
be closed. It follows that Im not persuaded first direct clearly informed Mrs W of what would 
happen with her accounts.  
Mr W has argued that Mrs W wanted to keep the accounts open in case she needed 
accounts later in life and found it difficult to attend a branch, I accept she might have wanted 
to keep the accounts, but these were on-line accounts and so no branch attendance 
necessary to open them; and many banks and building societies now offer on-line accounts 
and facilities such that I dont find this persuasive. 
I do accept Mrs W may have taken steps to contact first direct about her accounts had she 
been clearly informed they were going to be closed. And had she done so, there is a 
possibility her accounts could have remained open  after all, being able to keep an account 
open is an option given in the unclaimed assets information on first directs website. 
However, I do need to bear in mind it is by no means certain that first direct would have 
agreed to Mrs W retaining the accounts for the reasons given; that they might be required in 
the future doesnt strike me as a valid reason for not closing them, particuarly when they 
hadnt been used for 15 years or more. For that reason, Im not minded to ask first direct to 
reinstate the accounts. 
However, I do consider Mrs W has been put to some inconvenience in relation to his matter, 
not least because she had to make enquiries about why her accounts had been closed, as I 
have found she hadnt been clearly notified in advance.  She has also been denied the opportunity of discussing her accounts with first direct whilst they were still open. For that 
reason, I require first direct to pay Mrs W £50 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK 
Bank Pl, trading as first direct, to pay Mrs W £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman