DRN-2896764
The complaint
Mr V complains that Sporting Index Limited allowed him to open a spreadbetting account 
with a credit facility which he wasnt told about. As a result, he now owes a debt  when he 
thought the most he could lose was his deposit.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr V opened a spreadbetting account with Sporting Index. In order to do so, 
he was required to complete an appropriateness assessment in order to establish whether 
spreadbetting was appropriate for him. During this assessment he confirmed:
He had experience with spreadbetting;
Had read the risk disclosure notice;
Understood he could lose more than his depost;
Had accepted the terms and conditions. 
There were various accounts available to Mr V, and he chose the classic debit account  an 
account that had no inbuilt caps on either profits or losses for sports spreadbetting and that 
he would need to fund with his own money, not via credit provided by Sporting Index.
Sporting Index also carried out a credit check on him at the time, and his credit score did not 
indicate any particular issues that would prevent him from opening the account. 
Mr V deposited £5,000 on 7 March 2020 and carried out over 70 trades until 10 March 2020. 
By that stage, he had lost his deposit and had incurred a debt of just over £6,500. Mr V 
emailed Sporting Index on the same day and complained. He said that he purposely did not 
want a credit account. He explained he was in financial difficulties, and that he had suffered 
from gambling problems in the past. He said he had slipped off the wagon that week and 
had spent more than he could afford  but he didnt think that he should be allowed to incur 
such a sizeable debt. He said he had specifically declined a credit account in order to avoid 
this possibility and because he would not have knowingly exposed himself to more debt. He 
asked for his account to be closed. 
Sporting Index replied to Mr V and signposted him to organisations that could offer him 
support. It also offered him the opportunity of working out a structured plan in order to pay 
back the outstanding balance. However, it said that there were no issues when a credit 
check had been carried out on him prior to opening the account and he had confirmed that 
he understood and read how spreadbetting worked  and specifically, that losses could 
exceed deposits. 
Mr V disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into his complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. In short, the investigator concluded 
that:
Mr V was not given a credit account  he was given a debit account which is the one 
he had requested. The investigator explained that a credit account involved Sporting 
Index lending money to Mr V, up to a specified limit, to trade. This is not what had 
happened in Mr Vs case. He opened a debit account, which required him to deposit 
his own money. But the trades he made had caused losses which exceeded his 
deposit. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr V had said he understood the terms and 
conditions, and the investigator noted that those terms said that it is possible to 
suffer losses greater than any pre-set limit or deposit made. 
The investigator also noted that risk warnings about spreadbetting were on all 
Sporting Indexs pages  and this risk warning specifically said that spreadbetting 
can result in losses greater than your initial deposit or credit limit. In addition, Mr V 
was required to confirm that he had read the risk disclosure notice which also 
highlighted the risk of losing more than the deposit. 
There were no issues in relation to Mr Vs credit file at the time which ought to have 
prompted Sporting Index not to allow him to open an account. And Mr V had 
completed the appropriateness assessment which confirmed he had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. 
In addition, Mr V had specifically chosen a type of account which did not have any 
caps on profits or losses  the classic account. 
The investigator also noted that as soon as Mr V told Sporting Index about his situation, his 
account was frozen so that no further trades could be placed. Overall, the investigator 
concluded that Mr V hadnt been treated unfairly and that the losses he incurred were trading 
losses caused by the trades he chose to place, and not by something Sporting Index did or 
didnt do. 
Mr V didnt agree. In short, he said:
He thought he had a debit account. So it wasnt right that he now ended up owing 
money to Sporting Index after having lost his entire deposit  he couldve lost infinity 
money. 
He had an extremely poor credit rating, to the extent that he was not even able to 
have a contactless credit card from his bank. He said his credit rating was so poor he 
was unable to obtain finance anywhere  and yet he was now in a position to owe 
Sporting Index this money with no means to pay. 
He was unable to open any other gambling account with other bookmakers  and he 
had suffered as a result of his gambling addition, including through his mental health, 
yet it seemed none of this mattered. 
He said Sporting Index had taken advantage of a vulnerable person with an addiction 
to gambling and this wasnt fair.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr V. I can see this matter has caused him profound distress and Ive 
no doubt the financial consequences of the debt he owes to Sporting Index is having a 
significant impact on him. But whilst I have sympathy for the situation he finds himself in, Im required to consider the 
matter on the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable  and key to this is the extent to 
which I think Sporting Index has treated him fairly, and done what it was required to do at the 
time. 
As the investigator has explained, Sporting Index was required under COBS 10 to assess 
whether spreadbetting was appropriate for him  in short, this involved establishing whether 
he had sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved with this type of 
trading. 
Mr V confirmed that he had experience of spreadbetting, had read the relevant risk 
disclosure notice, had read the terms and specifically confirmed that he understood he could 
lose more than his deposit. On the basis of the answers Mr V gave, Sporting Index allowed 
him to open an account and begin trading. 
Mr V has now said he wasnt aware that he could lose more than his deposit  but if that was 
the case, why did he say that he knew this when filling out the application form? And 
importantly, why did he not query this when he read the risk disclosure notice, the terms or 
the risk warnings on Sporting Indexs website? All these warnings say, very clearly, that 
theres a risk of losses exceeding deposits. In my view, Mr V ought to have queried what all 
this meant if he was convinced he couldnt lose more than what he put in. 
I acknowledge Mr Vs concern that he has been taken advantage of, but I dont agree. 
Sporting Index didnt know about his gambling addiction, and Ive seen no evidence that he 
made it aware of this issue prior to his email on 10 March 2020. Sporting Index has 
confirmed that had it known about this, it wouldnt have let him open an account. 
Furthermore, Mr V didnt communicate any concerns to Sporting Index between 7 and 10 
March 2020  even though his trades were beginning to go against him. On the first day he 
lost over £1,300, whilst by 10pm on 9 March 2020, he had to deposit a further £2,000 as he 
had essentially already lost his entire deposit. I note that, unfortunately, it was the four trades 
he placed on 10 March 2020 which caused over £8,700 worth of losses, causing his account 
to go into debt. 
Taking all this into account, I dont agree that Sporting Index has done anything wrong. It 
didnt know about the personal issues which meant that spreadbetting was clearly not 
appropriate for Mr V  and whilst Mr V says he has been taken advantage of, that is only 
because his trades were not profitable. Sporting Index couldnt have known in advance how 
he would trade, or whether he would make losses  all it could do was ensure that he was 
aware of the risks, establish whether the account was appropriate, and rely on Mr V giving 
answers which were accurate and relevant. 
For all these reasons, whilst Id like to reiterate the sympathy I have for Mr V, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask Sporting Index to erase the trading losses 
Mr V incurred. 
I would however encourage Sporting Index to engage sensitively with Mr V in order to work 
out an arrangement, having regard to his personal and financial circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman