DRN-3517238
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, havent upheld a claim 
he made to them after an unsuccessful car repair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclaycard, the administrators are Visa and 
there are strict rules that govern whether claims can succeed. Barclaycard didnt have to 
raise a chargeback claim but Id consider it good practice for them to do so in these 
circumstances. 
The scheme administrators rejected that claim because the merchant defended it with 
evidence theyd completed the work requested. I can see that Barclaycard took additional 
action and attempted some arbitration with Visa, but that failed too and as Barclaycard dont 
set the rules I dont think their approach could fairly be said to have been unreasonable.
Section 75 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I understand that Mr H suggests the turbo repair he paid for was unnecessary. If the repair 
hadnt been carried out with reasonable care and skill or if the repair was unnecessary I 
would think thered been a breach of contract. But, whilst it appears a further repair was 
required, I dont have enough evidence to demonstrate that the turbo repair wouldnt have 
been required anyway. 
Mr H hasnt provided a report from, for instance, an expert engineer and theres no report 
from the dealership to show if the emergency breakdown services suspected subsequent 
issue with the AdBlue sensor was corroborated and remedied. 
So, it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest there is evidence the garage who replaced the turbo 
had breached its contract with Mr H and I dont therefore think Barclaycard were 
unreasonable when rejecting Mr Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman