DRN-2526294
Complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
Mrs O had a timeshare in Spain for which she paid an annual fee over several years. Her 
husbands health problems meant she could no longer travel overseas, so she stopped 
paying the annual fee.
In 2017, she was contacted by a company that said it could help her recover money in 
connection with the timeshare. She was told that shed need to pay some upfront costs of 
around £10,000 but that she could expect to receive at least £100,000 in compensation once 
everything was completed.
This company came back to Mrs O on multiple occasions to request that she transfer more 
money  she was told these payments were to cover legal expenses and the cost of having 
documents relevant to her claim translated into Spanish.
Unfortunately, Mrs O wasnt dealing with a legitimate company pursing a claim on her behalf, 
but a scammer. Each individual payment was itemised in the assessment sent by the 
investigator, so I wont repeat them here. But in total, between 27 April 2017 and 14 May 
2019, Mrs O paid in excess of £100,000 in connection with these fictitious legal services.
After the final payment had been made, Mrs O spoke to a Lloyds employee who recognised 
that shed been the victim of a scam. Lloyds attempted to recover the money shed lost via 
the receiving accounts. Unfortunately, it was only able to recover £1,200.
Mrs O complained that it hadnt done enough to protect her. Lloyds investigated her 
complaint and rejected it. It said that Mrs O had authorised each of these payments so there 
wasnt much more it couldve done. Only one of these payments (made in August 2018) was 
above a value threshold that meant additional steps were required. It had completed a high-
value payment checklist before agreeing to process that payment.
Mrs O wasnt happy with how Lloyds had responded to her complaint, so she referred it to 
this service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who agreed that Lloyds shouldve 
intervened to prevent her from being the victim of a scam. 
The investigator said that some of the early payments Mrs O made in relation to the scam 
werent for such large sums that shed have expected Lloyds to have looked at them more 
closely. However, in early 2018, Mrs O made the first of a series of international payments. 
The first was for £4,000 and reduced the balance on her easy-access savings account to £0. 
Subsequent transfers were made after she withdrew funds from a range of other savings 
products she had.
The investigator also noted that Lloyds records show Mrs O had twice been the victim of a 
scam in the past. The investigator concluded that Lloyds ought to have discussed the £4,000 
payment with Mrs O to ensure that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. If it had done so, it 
wouldve been able to prevent the many later payments Mrs O made in connection with the 
scam. 
Lloyds didnt respond to the investigators view of the complaint, and so it has been referred 
to me to consider and issue a final decision.
  
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
It is common ground that Mrs O authorised these payments. She was duped by the 
scammers into instructing her branch to make these transfers because theyd promised to 
provide her with legal services. She did not intend the money to go to scammers, but under 
the relevant regulations and/or the terms and conditions of her account, she is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs O when she transferred over £100,000 to scammers over many transactions. The early 
payments Mrs O made were for modest sums and were infrequent. And while they were 
generally of a higher value than most of the other payments shed made from the account, I 
dont think they were so high that Lloyds couldve been expected to look at them more 
closely. 
However, I agree with the investigators conclusion that Lloyds ought to have had cause for 
concern when Mrs O asked it to make the £4,000 payment on 19 January 2018.
This payment was unusual and out of character for several reasons. It was significantly 
larger than most of the payments shed made from this account and, in order to make it, 
shed needed to empty an easy-access savings account she held with Lloyds. This payment 
was made to a new payee and was also the first international payment she made in 
connection with the scam.Finally, Mrs O was over the age of 80 at the time she made this payment and had twice 
been a victim of scams in the past. These were relevant personal circumstances that Lloyds 
ought to have kept in mind. This age profile is one that is disproportionately targeted by 
fraudsters. I consider Lloyds should have recognised that Mrs Os age amplified the risk of 
being targeted as part of a scam, something addressed in the Banking Protocol and the 
British Bankers Associations report Improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances.
The combination of these factors should have alerted Lloyds that this payment might not be 
legitimate, particularly considering it should have recognised that Mrs O was at heightened 
risk of financial harm. The payment instruction for the 19 January 2018 payment was given 
in branch. And from the evidence Lloyds has provided, Mrs O wasnt asked any questions 
about it. I think this was a missed opportunity.
Mrs O ought to have been asked about why she was transferring money to this company. 
She has been quite open about what she believed had been agreed with the scammers 
since making this complaint. She wouldve had no reason not to be similarly open if she was 
questioned about it by Lloyds at the time she made the £4,000 payment, particularly since 
Ive seen no evidence the scammers provided her with a cover story in case she was asked 
further questions.
Scams in connection with timeshares arent uncommon so Id have expected Lloyds to have 
some awareness of them. And I think a branch employee wouldve been able to recognise 
that what Mrs O had been promised was improbable  i.e. that she could pay £10,000 and 
recover over £100,000 in compensation very quickly afterwards. Furthermore, shed already 
made multiple transfers to the fraudsters and this wouldve been grounds for further 
suspicion. 
Overall, Im satisfied that, if Lloyds had asked Mrs O more questions about this payment, its 
more likely than not it wouldve been able to break the spell she was under. And had it done 
so, it wouldve been able to prevent the scam from continuing and Mrs O making the 
subsequent payments.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs O is in any way blameworthy here. However, I dont 
think shed have had any basis for not believing that she was legitimately paying for legal 
services. All things considered, Im satisfied she was simply the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a cynical fraudster. 
Putting things right
Lloyds needs to calculate and pay to Mrs O the total of:
All of the transactions Mrs O made in connection with the scam from the £4,000 
payment on the 19th January 2018 until the final payment.
The charges she incurred in connection with those payments that were made to 
overseas accounts
Any charges Mrs O incurred when transferring funds out of her savings accounts
Any interest shes missed out on as a result of moving money out of those savings 
accounts, from the date of the money being transferred out to the date of settlement.
It will also need to pay Mrs O:8% simple interest per annum on each transaction it refunds that wasnt funded by 
her moving savings into her current account. This should be calculated from the date 
the payment was made until the date the refund is paid to Mrs O.
8% simple interest on each fee paid for an international payment. This should 
calculated from the date the fee was paid until the date the refund is paid to Mrs O.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Lloyds Bank Plc now needs to pay compensation to Mrs O in line with the instructions set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman