DRN-3745700
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr H bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr H alleges that the installer 
misled Mr H into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr H signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr H says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr H disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based on 
verbal representations and the documents were not left with Mr H for him to check, so he 
couldnt look through the documents to verify the information he was provided with verbally.  
He reiterated that he was assured the system would be self-funding. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
The quotation/order form for the sale of the system sets out the cash price of the system is 
£6,495, and the annual benefit amount is £493.38. This was signed by Mr H in January 
2016, so Im satisfied he saw it. These figures are not hidden in small print and are 
contained within a short 2-page document. This document indicates Mr H was going to 
purchase the system using cash only. I think this document is a good reflection of the likely 
discussions Mr H had with the installer during the sale. It sets the expected returns and the 
cost of the system clearly. 
As Mr H wasnt originally going to be using finance to pay for the system, I dont think its 
likely that the system would have been sold to him on the basis that the benefits gained from 
the system would cover the monthly finance payments  as there were no expected monthly 
payments at this time. 
Ikano says, that a second meeting took place around a month later (usually because a 
technical survey is needed before the installation). During this second meeting, Mr H 
decided to use finance and at this time he signed a second quotation order form. This was 
signed by Mr H on 13 February 2016. Estimated returns werent set out for him again as 
nothing else had changed other than the method of payment. 
During this second meeting, I understand Mr H agreed to a 120-month loan (i.e. 10 year) 
provided by Ikano. But by this time, Mr H had been told and had known for around a month 
that his annual benefits from the system was expected to be around £493.38. 
Mr H was taking a loan for £6, 495 repayable over 10 years  so, in my view, its clear that 
he would need to pay at least £649.50 per year to meet his annual loan payments. I think its 
apparent that the annual benefit amount of £493.38 wouldnt cover the annual cost of his 
loan repayments which would be at least £649.50. And of course, with interest on top (which 
was set out on his credit agreement), his annual payments would likely be significantly more 
than that.  
Mr H says that he doesnt recall having two meetings with the installer. But both documents 
were signed and dated by him a month apart, so I think its more likely that what Ikano says 
about the sales process is likely to be correct. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Hs representatives comments that Mr H should not be 
expected to look through documents to check whether the verbal representations made by 
the installer were true. And he was, instead, entitled to rely on what he was being told. 
But as explained above, the document is not particularly long. And although, I appreciate he 
now says that he was told the solar panels would be self-funding, I think its unlikely that hed 
agree to such a significant purchase without at least discussing what he was likely to receive 
in benefit before agreeing to the purchase. And, I think the first quotation order document is 
reliable evidence of the information Mr H was likely given at the time of sale. And this made 
the annual benefits clear and specifies that he was going to purchase the system using 
cash. So, I dont think I can reasonably find he was told at this time that the benefits would 
cover the loan payments  there were no loan payments. 
When Mr H agreed to take out finance, he knew his annual benefits were around £493.38. 
And his credit agreement set out his total payable was £10,121.32 and his monthly payment 
was £84.36 (which annually works out as £1,012.32). So, I think its unlikely the installer led 
him to believe that his benefits of £493.38 would cover the annual loan payments  when his 
annual payments were so significantly higher than the annual expected benefit. 
Overall, I think its unlikely he was told the system would be self-funding on either occasion. 
And, if Mr H had been told something different, given the figures set out for him, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Hs 
understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Hs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time. So, on 
balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that 
would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman