DRN-3638184
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy because she considers that BUPA Insurance Limited has withdrawn all 
medical cover for chronic conditions under a group private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms C is insured under her employers group private medical insurance policy, which renews 
on 1 April of each year. The policy is arranged by a broker and underwritten by BUPA. The 
policy specifically excludes claims for chronic conditions, except if certain conditions were 
met.
In 2019, Ms C was diagnosed with a long-term neurological medical condition, which is 
considered to be chronic in nature. She made claims on the policy, which BUPA agreed to 
cover.
In January 2022, BUPA wrote to Ms C to let her know that it was changing the way it worded 
the chronic condition exclusion in its policies to make the term clearer. The letter said that 
people with Ms Cs condition had flare-ups and needed treatment to stabilise these flare-ups 
again. BUPA stated that such flare-ups wouldnt be covered after the policy renewal date on 
1 April 2022. It added that Ms Cs previous claims had been paid in error.
Ms C was unhappy with BUPAs decision and she complained. Shed believed her group 
policy specifically included chronic cover. She felt that BUPA had withdrawn cover for her 
medical condition and that BUPA was discriminating against her on the grounds of her 
disability. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She compared the policy 
terms and conditions which applied to both the 2021 policy year and the 2022 policy year. 
She thought that both excluded cover for chronic conditions. She didnt think BUPAs level of 
cover had changed  she felt that BUPA had simply clarified the exclusion and how it 
worked.
Ms C disagreed. She maintained that BUPA had changed the cover it offered. She felt that if 
BUPA excluded cover for chronic conditions, then its advertising was misleading. And she 
noted that her condition (along with other chronic conditions) was specifically referred to as 
being subject to the exclusion. She considered that if other, unnamed chronic conditions 
were covered, that BUPA was discriminating against customers. She felt that it was 
unacceptable for BUPA to unilaterally change the terms of its policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I dont think that BUPA has treated her 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
Usually, private medical insurance policies are short-term, annually renewable contracts. At 
each renewal, an insurer is entitled to decide if it still wishes to offer insurance cover to a 
group or an individual and if so, on what terms. It isnt bound to offer the same cover at each 
renewal and if a group or individual accepts the insurers terms, a new 12-month contract of 
insurance is formed. 
Generally, we wont tell insurers what risks they should and shouldnt cover. An insurer is 
entitled to assess the risk of a claim and set out the risks it will and wont insure. At renewal, 
it isnt unfair for an insurer to change its terms or cover offer, so long as it sets these out 
clearly and in an understandable way.
In this case, Ms C believes that BUPA withdrew cover for her medical condition at the point 
her group scheme renewed in 2022 and that its cover terms changed. She also feels that her 
employer had specifically taken out chronic cover as part of its contract with BUPA. Ive 
thought carefully about these points.
First, Ive looked closely at both the 2021 and 2022 policy certificates, which set out the 
cover Ms Cs employer had taken out with BUPA. Its clear that chronic cover (which is an 
optional extra employers can choose to include in group schemes) wasnt included as part of 
this group scheme. Accordingly, it appears that Ms Cs employer didnt choose to take out 
chronic cover and therefore, I dont think BUPA provided incorrect or misleading information 
on this point. If Ms Cs employer believes it had opted and paid for chronic cover as part of 
its insurance contract, it would be for the employer, as the policyholder, to raise this with 
BUPA and the broker.
Secondly, like the investigator, Ive compared the exclusion for chronic conditions set out in 
both the 2021 and 2022 policy booklets. 
Page 39 of the 2021 policy document says:
Exclusion 6 Chronic conditions
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics.
-It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
-It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
-It requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-It comes back, or is likely to come back
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of 
acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment is 
likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous 
state of health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for 
treatment following a heart attack arising out of chronic heart disease.
Page 39 of the 2022 policy document states the following:
Exclusion 6 Chronic conditionsWe do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
-It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations. check-
ups and/or tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
-It requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-It continues indefinitely
-It has no known cure
-It comes back or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of 
unexpected acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the 
treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your 
previous state of health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment. For example, we 
pay for treatment following a heart attack, arising out of chronic heart disease. We do not 
pay for treatment required due to the expected deterioration or flare up of a chronic condition 
This includes conditions which have a relapsing or remitting nature and require management 
of recurrent flare-ups, for example, inflammatory bowel disease In such cases, the flare-ups 
are an expected part of the normal course of the illness and therefore we do not consider 
them as acute complications of the disease.
In my view, both the 2021 and 2022 policy documents make it clear that there is no cover for 
chronic conditions. This is a common term in private medical insurance policies. In both 
policy booklets, BUPA has stated that there is cover for acute flare-ups of a chronic condition 
if the treatment is likely to quickly result in a full recovery or if it will restore a member to their 
previous state of health without the need for prolonged treatment. As such then, I agree with 
the investigator that the level of cover here hasnt changed. And I dont think BUPA has 
withdrawn cover which was previously available under the terms of the 2021 and past 
contracts.
What has changed is the way that BUPA has chosen to explain the exception that may apply 
for certain chronic conditions. Its made the circumstances in which it might pay for the 
treatment of chronic conditions far clearer and more understandable. 
Its clear that Ms C feels strongly that BUPA has withdrawn previously available cover, given 
the content of the letters and information she was sent in January 2022. BUPA did refer to 
Ms Cs policy providing cover for flare-ups of a chronic condition.  I acknowledge that these 
letters indicated a change in the level of cover under the new policy, rather than a fuller 
explanation of the way the policy already worked. But I think the totality of the information Ms 
C was given was sufficiently clear to highlight that it was the policy wording which was 
changing, rather than the cover itself.
BUPA accepts that its previously paid claims for Ms Cs condition. But it says these claims 
were paid in error. I appreciate why Ms C was disappointed and upset to learn that further 
flare-ups of her condition wont be covered. But I dont think I could fairly find that previous 
erroneous payments of her claim should mean that BUPA is bound to pay any future 
ineligible claims for her condition.
Ms C has indicated that she feels BUPA has discriminated against her on the grounds of her 
disability. Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a 
matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not BUPA has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, 
amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Having considered everything carefully, I dont think BUPA has treated Ms C unfairly or 
unreasonably. Its referred to NHS information about Ms Cs particular medical condition.  
Ive looked at this carefully. It states that Ms Cs condition is a lifelong condition and that 
symptoms may come and go or worsen over time. The NHS also says that 80-90% of people 
with Ms Cs condition will suffer remitting relapses, with episodes of new or worsening 
symptoms. It says repeated attacks may happen over several years. 10-20% of people 
diagnosed with Ms Cs condition will suffer progressive worsening of symptoms over time, 
with no periods of remission. I dont think it was unreasonable for BUPA to rely on this 
information to show that there is a higher risk of this condition leading to claims and to 
classify it as a chronic condition.
As Ive explained, the chronic conditions exclusion applies to all claims for chronic conditions 
and would apply to all policyholders and beneficiaries. BUPA is reasonably entitled to use its 
commercial judgement and discretion to decide what risks it wishes to cover and those it 
wishes to exclude. I dont think theres any evidence to suggest BUPA has unfairly singled 
out Ms C in any way. So whilst I sympathise with Ms Cs position, Im not directing BUPA to 
take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman