DRN-3976074
The complaint
Miss M complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas (Ageas) settled a 
claim under a contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M contacted Ageas to make a claim for fire damage to her home contents. Ageas 
accepted the claim. It arranged for Miss Ms contents to be removed from her home and 
offered a cash settlement for the contents. Miss M complained about delays with her claim 
and that Ageas had deducted its contractor costs from the claim settlement, which had 
resulted in a much lower settlement for her contents.
When Ageas replied, it said it would only pay up to the £15,000 claim limit. It said any 
payments to its suppliers needed to be deducted from the claim limit. It had investigated the 
supplier costs and accepted there was a slight error, which had been corrected. It had 
offered £8,834.77 to settle the claim, which was what was due.
So, Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it 
was unfair for Ageas to make Miss M liable for its contractor costs. There was also evidence 
of months of delays with progressing the claim. She said Ageas should pay Miss M £15,000 
as the claim settlement and £300 compensation.
As Ageas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Miss M first made her claim, Ageas looked at whether she was underinsured. It 
decided that it was willing to pay up to the claim limit, which was £15,000. When it offered 
settlement, it then deducted its contractor costs from the £15,000 limit. This included costs 
such as to prepare a list of items beyond economic repair, asbestos testing and for skips to 
put the contents in. It isnt fair for Ageas to deduct these costs. They are business costs and 
Miss M isnt responsible for covering those, which she is in effect doing by Ageas deducting 
the costs from the settlement amount. It is for Ageas to pay those costs. Im aware Ageas 
has said it can provide the invoices for the contractor costs but, in my view, I dont need to 
see these to make a fair and reasonable decision, as they shouldnt have been deducted.
I also note Miss M said some of the contractor costs werent justified. For example, she said 
there was no asbestos at her property, and any checks would be part of the separate 
buildings claim anyway, and no skips had been used. So, from what I can see, Ageas also 
attempted to deduct costs from the settlement despite Miss M explaining her concerns about 
some of those charges and explaining why they werent justified. Any disputes over the 
contractor charges are for Ageas to deal with internally with its contractors. But, I think this 
added to Miss Ms sense of unfairness about how her claim was settled.
Ive looked at the claim records and the cost to replace Miss Ms contents, excluding the 
contractor costs. Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Ageas to pay Miss M £15,000 to settle 
the claim, which is the maximum amount it agreed to pay for a contents claim.
Ive also thought about compensation. Ageas said there was a delay with the claim because 
the broker had taken a while to reply to its queries about the underinsurance, which it said 
was outside its control. However, from what Ive seen, there were further claim delays, 
including Miss M having to keep chasing Ageas to get her contents cleared. This also 
seemed to impact her buildings claim progressing. Ive also already referred to Miss Ms 
concerns about the contractor costs and the impact on her. So, having thought about this, I 
think Ageas should pay Miss M £300 compensation because of these issues.
Putting things right
Ageas should pay Miss M £15,000 to settle the claim and £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas to:
Pay Miss M £15,000 to settle the claim.
Pay Miss M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman