DRN-3236927
Complaint
Miss D says that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly removed her overdraft after suggesting that 
she should disregard a letter saying that it would be removed.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds concerns. He didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss D received a letter from TSB, in August 2019, telling her that her 
overdraft was going to be removed. It looks like this letter was sent because Miss D had 
been regularly exceeding her overdraft limit. Miss D says she contacted TSB on receipt of 
this letter and was told that it was sent in error and that she should disregard it. TSB accepts 
that a call took place but says it doesnt have any record of what was discussed. 
However, what isnt in dispute is that by the time of any telephone call Miss Ds account had 
already been brought back within her overdraft limit. So she had, in any event, complied with 
the direction in the letter and I do think its more likely than not Miss D was told that she 
didnt need to take any further action at this stage, as there was no need for her to do 
anything. But I dont think that TSBs representative would have gone as far as saying that 
Miss Ds overdraft would never be removed. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that 
Miss D is more likely than not to have received misleading information at this stage. 
Its also worth noting that Miss Ds account conduct didnt improve even though the overdraft 
hadnt been removed in August 2019. And the concerns which prompted TSB to consider 
taking corrective action in relation to Miss Ds overdraft remained. Miss D continued to 
operate her account balance towards the amount of her limit and the nature of her 
transactions ought reasonably to have prompted TSB to once again start considering 
whether her overdraft was sustainable for her. 
And once Miss D again exceeded her overdraft limit, in October 2019, TSB once again 
decided to begin corrective action in relation to the overdraft as it was entitled to. It issued a 
final demand notice to Miss D at the end of October 2019. I do sympathise with what Miss D 
has told us. I fully appreciate shes gone through a difficult time and understand why shes 
unhappy with adverse information being recorded on her credit file and worried about the 
impact this will have on her. 
I also know that Miss D has said she was misled by TSB during this process. But I think its 
fair to say that by October 2019, it was clear that her situation hadnt improved and I dont 
think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for TSB to continue ignoring    
Miss Ds obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected 
TSB to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. TSB acknowledges it should have stopped adding interest 
when the overdraft was removed and has now adjusted the outstanding balance to reflect 
this. And asking TSB to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove the default, when it seems 
unlikely Miss D will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would 
arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss Ds interests or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss Ds overdraft when it did. As this is the 
case and Miss D didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, Im satisfied 
that TSB was entitled to withdraw Miss Ds overdraft. Im also satisfied that Miss D is unlikely 
to have been misled by TSB through this process either.
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss D. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman