DRN-2918208
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) terminated his 
finance agreement unfairly.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr P acquired a new car costing £58,217 funded by a hire purchase 
arrangement. Under this he agreed to pay £1,152.21 a month for 59 months with final 
balloon payment of £1,152.21.
In 2019 Mr P encountered financial difficulties and missed several payments and payment 
plan was agreed to allow him to clear his arears. He wasnt able to maintain the payments 
missing two months and VFS issued a default notice in June 2020. Mr P says he tried to 
make contact with VFS, but without success. VFS continued to write to Mr P asking him to 
make contact without delay. It says it sent him an income and expenditure form on 28 
September and followed this up with several emails.
When Mr P was able to speak to VFS in September 2020 he says he was asked to complete 
and income and expenditure form which it issued on 9 November and which Mr P returned 
on 22 November, but VFS had terminated the agreement on 21 November. 
Mr P complained and said VFS hadnt told him when he had to return the income and 
expenditure form and it had acted prematurely. VFS didnt agree and rejected his complaint. 
He brought the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Our investigator said that Mr P had entered into agreement under which he agreed to make 
monthly payments. He recognised that Mr P had experienced financial difficulties, but VFS 
had sought to assist. It set up a payment plan during the term of the agreement and it issued 
multiple default notices which were clear in informing Mr P of the consequences of non-
payment. 
He also thought VFS had allowed additional time to come to an arrangement but he didnt 
believe the form had been returned in a reasonable timescale. VFS was entitled to terminate 
the agreement given the arrears which had built up from 2019. It was Mr Ps responsibility to 
ensure payments were made on time. He concluded that VFS had acted fairly by terminating 
the agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said bis concerns were with supposed discrepancies between the 
issue of the default notice in September 2020 and termination. He wondered why it had 
acted without receiving his income and expenditure form. He had presumed it had accepted 
another payment plan given it kept taking payments from him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr P, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
I appreciate Mr P has concerns about the final stages of the termination, but I consider the 
whole issue needs to be put into context. He entered into arrears as early as January 2019 
and subsequently he entered into payment plan to address those arrears which he failed to 
maintain. VFS did not terminate the agreement until November 2020. I believe that shows it 
exercised a degree of restraint. 
I accept that Mr P made a number of attempts to call VFS without success, but it was open 
to him to use other methods of contact to ensure that the exploration of a solution of his 
arrears could be dealt with as quickly as possible. It was clear from June 2020 that VFS was 
seeking a resolution of this account which had been in arrears for some time. It was not only 
the original arrears, but Mr P had broken the terms of the original payment plan and so VFS 
had reason to exercise a degree of caution in its handling of the account.
VFS made its intent clear in June 2020 by issuing a default notice and I consider Mr P was 
aware of the need to address the matter. He continued to make payments, but not to clear 
his arrears. However, I believe it was clear that the account would be terminated unless a 
satisfactory arrangement could be made. 
I note Mr P believed a second arrangement to pay had been agreed in November but given 
VFS didnt have his income and expenditure details it was not in a position to make a 
decision about any arrangement. VFS says that when it spoke to Mr P in November he was 
too busy to go through his income and expenditure during the call. While that is reasonable I 
believe it was incumbent on him to act promptly and submit the relatively simple form without 
delay.
While I can appreciate Mr Ps position I cannot say that VFS did anything wrong in its 
handling of his account and so I cannot uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman