DRN-2726267
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance, 
(MPPI), policy. Although Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited, 
(Joslin), didnt sell the policy to Mr F, it has taken responsibility for dealing with 
the complaint. For simplicity, I will refer to Joslin throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr F took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy at the same time as remortgaging his home. 
The policy started in 2008, The sale took place during a meeting at Mr Fs home. The initial 
premiums for this insurance were about £28 a month. And, following a successful claim, 
initially the policy would have paid out £650 a month, for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. As Mr F 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. I explain why below.
Mr F says that Joslin told him that his mortgage application was more likely to be 
successful if he took out the MPPI. I dont doubt that this is Mr Fs recollection now 
of what took place during the meeting. But, because it was several years ago, I 
dont think its reasonable and fair for me to rely solely on his memory.
Ive seen the record of the mortgage and protection fact find carried out by Joslin. 
This shows that various types of insurance, including MPPI, were discussed. And 
notes the monthly benefit required for the MPPI policy as well as the deferral 
period, that is to say the time before any payments would start to be made 
following a claim.
Ive also seen the letter to Mr F, sent by Joslins representative, summarising the 
representatives mortgage and insurance recommendations. This includes that 
MPPI was recommended to cover the mortgage payments in the event that Mr F 
was unable to work because of disability and unemployment. It also says that the 
deferral period was recommended to Mr F because his employer would provide 
sick pay throughout that period and that Mr F said this was acceptable to him. The 
letter also tells Mr F that the MPPI provider would write to him direct allowing him 
14 days to change his mind about the policy, (the providers letter), and asking 
him to let the representative know if he does so, so that the representative could 
amend his records. There is no mention in the letter that the mortgage 
recommended in it would be affected if he did cancel the insurance.
The above letter also mentions that Mr F only wanted the meeting to cover some of 
the financial products which the representative suggested should be considered - 
MPPI was one of these.
Further, there was nothing in Mr Fs mortgage offer requiring him to take out any 
type of insurance at all, save for buildings insurance.
Its possible that Mr F may have taken something Joslins representative said 
during the meeting to mean that he was more likely to get his loan if he took out the 
MPPI. But, because of the time that has passed, the only record of what was said 
at the meeting that I have seen is the fact find record to which Ive referred. This 
doesnt show anything that I find could have had that effect. But, from what Ive 
seen, as mentioned above, Im satisfied there is written evidence showing that 
Joslin made it clear that taking the policy was optional. And that Mr F wanted this 
type of insurance;
Mr F has also told us that he was not aware that he could have can cancelled the 
policy. But I can see that this was referred to in the representatives letter Ive 
mentioned earlier. It was also mentioned in the key facts document about the 
MMPI, a copy of which I think its reasonable to assume was given to Mr F. And 
Ive no reason to conclude that the providers letter was not sent by the insurance 
provider to Mr F. So Im satisfied that Mr F had several opportunities to become 
aware of the cancellation provisions of the policy;
Joslin recommended Mr F to take out the policy. This meant that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for him. Joslin also had to give Mr F 
clear, fair and not-misleading information so that he could make an informed 
decision whether he wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of his 
circumstances at the time.
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr F. I say this because, knowing what I 
do about his circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
oMr F was eligible for the policy;
oMr F wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations - such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
oThe policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. 
oMr F says that he was in financial difficulties at the time of the sale. I can see 
that, before the remortgage, he had several credit balances. And that the monthly 
payments on those, together with his then existing mortgage repayments, left him 
with little disposable income. However, these credit balances were consolidated 
in the new mortgage and meant that his outgoings were lower thereafter. And 
based on the income and expenditure figures Mr F gave Joslin during the fact 
find, I cant see that the MPPI premiums were unaffordable for him. In any event, 
because it was paid for monthly, had Mr F later thought that he couldnt afford the 
MPPI, or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
oMr F was entitled to sick pay from his employment, and he had some savings. 
But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to 
these other payments and funds, leaving them available to meet his other 
outgoings while he wasnt working. So I find that the policy could have been of 
use to Mr F. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences 
that could have arisen had Mr F been unable to make his mortgage 
repayments, which were secured on his home.
Joslins representatives letter, to which Ive referred above, set out the initial monthly 
MPPI premiums and monthly benefits payable under it. As well as the maximum number of 
payments that would be made per claim and the deferral period. Its possible, however, 
that during the sales meeting Joslin didnt tell Mr F everything else that it ought to have 
about the policy. But as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for him, I think that he 
would still have taken it had Joslin given him clearer information. This means that Mr F 
hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with Joslins sales process. 
So theres nothing I require Joslin to put right.
As Ive said, Ive thought about everyting Mr F has told us, including that his recollection was 
that the policy was paid for with an intial £3,000 upfront payment. Ive seen no record of such 
a payment being required in any of the evidence Ive been sent. And I find that the policy 
was paid for by monthly premiums. So this and Mr Fs other comments dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman