DRN-2831625
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the service provided under the home emergency section of her
home insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
Mrs R is represented in this complaint by her daughter and son-in-law. For ease however, all
references in this decision will be to Mrs R. Aviva also uses agents to deal with claims and
complaints on its behalf and I will also refer to Aviva throughout.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2021, part of which is copied below: 
Mrs R is elderly and vulnerable. At around 6pm in the middle of October 2020, Mrs Rs 
carer found that the central heating wasnt working. Mrs R called Aviva to make a claim. 
Aviva said it could send an engineer out the next morning but could not attend that evening. 
It was particularly cold weather at the time and, given Mrs Rs age and condition, she was 
not willing to wait without heating or hot water until the next day. Mrs R was able to get an
independent gas engineer to attend immediately and he got the boiler working again. Mrs R
says she paid £80 for this.
Mrs R is very unhappy that Aviva was not able to attend sooner and that she was expected
to wait around 12 hours, when the policy is described as covering emergency situations and
24 hour cover. Mrs R has asked for the £80 she paid to be reimbursed and for Aviva to
change its policy so it responds to an emergency call sooner and in any event within, say,
four hours.
Aviva says the policy doesnt state a specific response time and 12 hours is within its service
level commitment (which is to respond within 24 hours). It says it doesnt have gas engineers
that work overnight and it offered Mrs R the next available appointment it could. However,
Aviva said if Mrs R provided evidence of the cost of the repair, it would reimburse it.
Mrs R says the engineer works for another organisation and told him he is forbidden by his
employer to do private work, so he didnt provide an invoice and does not want to be
contacted or named. Aviva says it wont reimburse this cost without being able to verify it.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not think the complaint should be
upheld.
Mrs R does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me.
She has also said she had to make another claim in March 2021 and was again told an
appointment was not available until the next day. Mrs R again got her own engineer and is
seeking reimbursement from Aviva, as she was not prepared to wait for Aviva to attend.
Mrs R says this shows that Avivas response to this claim was not a one-off and asked that
this be dealt with as part of this complaint. The investigator referred this matter to Aviva and
told Mrs R it would have to be looked into separately.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva says it service level agreement is to respond to claims within 24 hours but this doesnt
mean that is always acceptable. The service level agreement does not form part of the
insurance contract with Mrs R but is rather an internal commitment. Aviva also says it does
not have gas engineers that work after normal hours. This might be the case but the
policyholder would not be aware of that. 
This policy purports to provide 24 hour cover for home emergency situations. While a 
response within 24 hours might be acceptable in some cases, there will be occasions when 
it would be reasonable to expect a prompter response.
It was particularly cold at the time Mrs R made this claim and she was within a couple of
weeks of turning 100 years old. I think this would be a case where it was not unreasonable
to expect a prompter response to a claim for no heating or hot water. I can therefore see why 
Mrs R instructed an independent gas engineer. While there is no verification of this cost, or 
what was required to get the boiler working again, I have no reason to doubt what Mrs R has 
said happened. Overall, it seems to me it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
reimburse the £80 Mrs R said the repair cost her. 
With regard to the policy terms and handling of future claims, my remit is to consider
individual complaints. We do not regulate financial businesses and so I have no power to
make Aviva change its practices or the way it deals with claims in the future. However, we
do publish our decisions and hope that businesses learn from them.
Finally, with regard to the claim Mrs R made in March 2021, I am afraid this will need to be
dealt with separately. I can understand why this is frustrating for Mrs R, as it appears to
result from almost identical circumstances as this complaint, but the rules under which we
operate require this to be put to Aviva first and for it to have a chance to respond, before we
can look into it.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R the sum
of £80 in respect of the repair of her boiler.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Aviva has confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
Mrs R has also responded and confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or arguments, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.   My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R the sum
of £80 in respect of the repair of her boiler.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman