DRN-3640660
The complaint
Ms B, Mr L and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fully settled a claim
they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mrs L brought the complaint, for simplicity, Ive generally simply referred to her
throughout this decision.
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs L booked a skiing holiday abroad in a country Ill call F. She was due
to travel between 14 and 21 March 2020. On 9 March 2020, Mrs L took out a single trip
travel insurance policy to cover the trip.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Mrs
L said she spoke to her airline and travel providers, who told her that everything was open
and encouraged her to travel. So Mrs L and her family flew to F as planned in the early
afternoon of 14 March 2020.
However, at 8pm that evening, Fs government announced the closure of all ski resorts,
restaurants, entertainment facilities and most shops from midnight. And on 16 March 2020,
Fs government imposed a nationwide lockdown. People leaving their homes were legally
required to produce a document to justify their movements.
Mrs L and her family had to remain in their accommodation at the ski resort. Mrs L said the
family was stranded in a closed resort, with no transport options or open restaurants. They
tried to book an early return to the UK, but the earliest return flights they could secure were
on 19 March 2020. Mrs L therefore cut short her trip and made a claim on her policy. She
claimed for the full costs of her trip, given the ski resort had been closed down only a few
hours after their arrival in F.
Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO) advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Great Lakes accepted and partly settled Mrs Ls claim. It covered the unused costs of Mrs 
Ls trip following her early return to the UK on 19 March 2020, together with the cost of the
new flights shed had to purchase, less the applicable policy excess per person.
Mrs L was unhappy with the settlement Great Lakes had paid her and with the handling of
her claim. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She agreed that strictly, Great
Lakes had been entitled to treat the date Mrs L had returned to the UK as the date the trip
had been cut short. But given the main purpose of Mrs Ls holiday had been to ski, she felt
that the closure of the ski resort had effectively ended her trip. She felt that as Mrs L and her
family had been confined to their accommodation and had had no benefit from the resort at
all, it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to treat the entire holiday as having been
effectively curtailed. So she recommended that Great Lakes should reassess the claim from
14 March 2020 and pay interest on any settlement due.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Great Lakes had settled Mrs Ls claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether Great Lakes
settled the claim fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs L and Ms B found themselves was 
completely unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand that when the 
insurance was taken out, on 9 March 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding 
Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mrs L are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Section two provides cover for a policyholders curtailment or loss of holiday. This says that
Great Lakes covers:
Each Insured Person in total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table
of Benefits following necessary and unavoidable Curtailment of, or Loss of Holiday on, an
Insured Journey
Great Lakes defines curtail/curtailment as: Returning to Your Home in the United Kingdom
before the scheduled return date.
The policy says that Great Lakes will pay a policyholders curtailment costs for one of the
following listed, specific reasons:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, Your
Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had
arranged to stay; or
2. Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk
of the Courts Office; or
3. You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police,
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being
cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your
trip; or
4. You or Your travelling companion being recalled Home by a relevant authority due to
severe damage to Your or their Home or place of business in the United Kingdom
caused by serious fire, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or
5. The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring that the country or area in
which You are travelling is unsafe and recommending evacuation; or
6. Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse,
civil partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the start of the trip.
In my view, Great Lakes has clearly set out in the contract terms that it will calculate any
settlement due under the curtailment section of the policy from the date of a policyholders
early return to the UK. Thats how it has worked out and settled Mrs Ls claim. In some
cases, I might find its fair and reasonable for an insurer to step away from a strictinterpretation of the policy terms and conditions. But that isnt the case here for reasons Ill
go on to explore.
Theres no dispute that Mrs L and her family werent able to ski as theyd planned or have
the trip theyd expected to. I acknowledge that due to unexpected circumstances, they were
required to effectively isolate in their ski accommodation from shortly after their arrival until
they were able to return to the UK.
However, these circumstances simply arent covered by the curtailment section of the policy
and they dont fall within one of the listed events Great Lakes has chosen to cover. Whilst
the FCDO did ultimately advise all UK nationals to return to the UK because of Covid-19, this
advice wasnt issued until 23 March 2020. This was four days after Mrs L had cut short her
trip and two days after the trip had originally been due to end. This means I dont think I
could fairly find that Mrs Ls full claim is covered under this particular heading either.
So on the particular facts of this case, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct
Great Lakes to treat Mrs Ls holiday as having been curtailed on 14 March 2020 and to pay
her claim from that date onwards. In these circumstances, I currently find that it was fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to calculate the settlement from the date of Mrs Ls actual date
of return to the UK  19 March 2020. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon
which I could direct it to pay the full claim costs. And so therefore, whilst I sympathise with
Mrs Ls position, as I appreciate she found herself in an upsetting position, Im not planning
to direct Great Lakes to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished me to consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mrs L didnt agree with my provisional findings. Ive summarised her response:
She queried why Great Lakes hadnt paid the full ski hire costs, given the ski slopes 
were closed for the entirety of the trip:
She felt it was unfair that policy excesses were deducted for children;
Shed claimed for the bare minimum of a trip theyd paid £6000 for. Theyd 
specifically taken out curtailment cover and paid extra for it;
Shed paid for airport transfers which Great Lakes hasnt covered;
The ski holiday had been curtailed on the day they arrived. The only reason she 
didnt return home earlier was because of thousands of people trying to get a flight 
back to the UK. If she had been able to get an earlier flight, Great Lakes liability 
wouldve been greater;
She felt insurance companies would do anything to avoid paying out and that this 
situation proved it. She was now very cautious about travelling abroad with children 
and wont travel abroad again any time soon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I still think that Great Lakes settled her 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I appreciate that the situation in which Mrs L found 
herself was completely out of her control. I accept too that following the closure of all ski resorts and consequent lockdown, Mrs L and her family had no choice but to isolate in their 
accommodation. And I sympathise with their position.
However, it remains the case that the contract terms cover a policyholders curtailment 
because of one of a specific, defined list of insured events. As I explained above, Great 
Lakes has clearly set out what it means by curtailment. And in this case, the relevant insured 
event was curtailment due to the FCDO advising evacuation from a policyholders 
destination. 
But its clear here that Mrs L cut short her trip four days ahead of such advice being issued 
by the FCDO. This advice was also given two days after the planned trip had been due to 
end. So strictly, her claim wasnt covered by this section of the policy. But Great Lakes 
stepped away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and covered Mrs Ls claim from 
the date of her return to the UK  the date her holiday was actually curtailed. In my view, this 
was a fair and reasonable response from Great Lakes and so I still dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Great Lakes to accept and settle any further 
costs it hasnt already agreed to consider.
And while I acknowledge that there may have been some difficulty in Mrs L obtaining a 
return flight as quickly as she mightve wished following the closure of the ski resorts, I still 
think Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to settle the claim based on the evidence it had 
and in line with the policy terms.
Mrs L says that Great Lakes hasnt paid her transfer costs. I can see from Great Lakes 
settlement letter that it was waiting for further evidence from Mrs L regarding her inward-
bound transport to the airport and whether shed received any refund for the original unused 
transfer booking before considering this part of her claim. If Mrs L hasnt yet provided Great 
Lakes with this evidence, its open to her to do so. If Mrs L has now provided Great Lakes 
with this evidence, its for Great Lakes to now decide whether or not her transport costs are 
covered and to let Mrs L know the outcome.
I appreciate Mrs L considers she paid extra for curtailment cover. The policy does include an 
optional Extended Travel Disruption section, which provides additional cover for a 
policyholders cancellation or curtailment. But I note from Mrs Ls policy schedule that while 
she purchased optional winter sports cover, Extended Travel Disruption wasnt added to the 
policy or paid for. This means Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to consider the claim in 
line with the standard curtailment section of the policy.
Mrs L has mentioned too that she feels its unreasonable that a policy excess was deducted 
for the children in her party. It doesnt appear that Great Lakes has had a chance to look into 
this particular complaint point though. Under our rules, we can only consider a complaint 
once a financial business has had a chance to investigate it. This means I cant look into that 
particular point within this decision. Its open to Mrs L to make a new complaint to Great 
Lakes about the excess deduction should she now wish to do so.
It's clear Mrs L feels very strongly about her complaint and I sympathise with her position, as 
I appreciate shes been left out of pocket. But overall, I remain satisfied that Great Lakes has 
settled her claim fairly and reasonably and so Im not directing it to accept any further costs it 
hasnt already agreed to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mr L and 
Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman