DRN-4334488
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal 
Finance (Novuna). He says they shouldnt have lent to him because the repayments werent 
affordable for him.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr C took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Novuna to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £850 and borrowed £8,500  the cash price of the 
vehicle was £9,350. The agreement required Mr C to make 60 monthly repayments of 
£178.44. 
Mr C complained to Novuna in December 2022, saying they hadnt fully considered his credit 
history and affordability when assessing his application.
In response, Novuna said theyd searched Mr Cs credit history and used a Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA) tool to understand his income and general indebtedness. They said they 
hadnt seen any indications that he would struggle to service the loan agreement. Novuna 
said Mr C had told them his annual income was £28,800 from which theyd estimated his net 
monthly income was £1,926.65. From his credit record they said they could see he had 
credit balances totalling £11,100 with monthly payments of around £331.50. They said Mr C 
was a homeowner with no mortgage at the time of the lending decision. Deducting those 
monthly payments and the £178.44 for this agreement from Mr Cs net monthly income, they 
felt £1,416.71 was enough to meet average cost of living expenses and therefore didnt have 
any concerns about lending to Mr C. So they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service, saying that when the agreement started hed had 
numerous late payments, missed payments and defaults, and had also just retired. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter but she said there was no evidence of any issues on 
his credit report. Our investigator said she thought Novuna could have done more when 
checking whether the loan would be affordable for Mr C. But she thought if they had theyd 
still have decided it was affordable, based on what shed seen on Mr Cs bank statements.
Mr C disagree with our investigators view, saying that he still believed that he had defaults 
at the time the loan was agreed. He said his bank statements showed that he was 
overdrawn for much of that year and he had to beg and borrow to keep making the 
repayments. He added that Novuna should have looked at his bank statements because of 
his age at the time. He asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaints come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Mr C, Im not upholding his 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Novuna carry out proportionate checks?
Novuna say they checked Mr Cs credit file and this showed existing credit commitments of 
£11,100, no mortgage, and no indications of financial stress. They havent got a copy of the 
credit file, just data extracted from it. Looking at the extracted data, I think Novunas 
assessment that there werent any indicators of financial stress was reasonable. 
Mr C sent us a copy of his credit report which Ive looked at carefully given Mr Cs testimony 
that he had defaults at the time. This report is dated May 2023 but gives data for six years. 
Looking at this report, I cant see that Mr C had any defaults, or any recent late or missed 
payments at the time the loan was agreed. The total of the three credit card balances shown 
on the credit report is very similar to Novunas figure of £11,100. And theres no evidence 
Mr C had a mortgage at the time. 
Novuna also verified Mr Cs income and considered how much income hed have left over 
once hed made his credit repayments. They felt that the figure of around £1,400 ought to be 
enough for general living expenses. This also seems reasonable given Mr C was a 
homeowner with no mortgage. 
However, Mr C was of retirement age at the time he took out the loan. Novuna had his date 
of birth and therefore would have known this. That meant they should have anticipated his 
income would likely change during the term of the loan. CONC 5.2.3G says a firms 
assessment of affordability should be proportionate to factors including any future changes 
in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a significant financial adverse 
impact on the customer. Im satisfied Mr Cs age and upcoming retirement falls into this 
category and means Novuna should have done more to at least understand Mr Cs 
retirement plans and future sources of income.
What would Novuna have found if they had done proportionate checks?
To understand more about Mr Cs income, I looked at his bank statements around the time 
of the lending decision  January, February and March 2018. Im not saying Novuna needed 
to look at Mr Cs bank statements, but the statements provide an indication of Mr Cs 
financial circumstances at the time.
The statements are for a joint account. They show regular income of around £2,150 per 
month from the Department for Work and Pensions, and one other source. These amounts 
are paid every month at around the same time each month. 
On top of this, the statements show irregular income which appears to be from Mr Cs self-
employment. These amounts arent insignificant, averaging around £1,200 per month across 
the three months I looked at. I also noted that these receipts into Mr Cs account continued 
throughout the year  which suggests Mr C likely did intend to keep working for some time 
when he took out the hire purchase agreement and would probably have told Novuna this if 
asked. 
The statement also show Mr C received a large lump sum from DWP in February 2018 and 
appears to have paid much of this into a personal pension in April 2018. This suggests that Mr C would have additional income from his personal pension when he chose to draw this in 
the future.
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied that if Novuna had found out more about Mr Cs 
income and retirement plans, theyd have been satisfied his and his partners average joint 
monthly income was likely to be around £3,350 for the foreseeable future. The bank 
statements show regular direct debits of around £1,600 per month  covering credit card 
payments, insurance, council tax and utilities, road tax, telecommunications, and various 
insurances. Adding to this the £178 per month for the new hire purchase agreement, Mr C 
(and his partner) would have committed expenditure of around £1,800 per month. 
Comparing this to the joint income suggests Mr C and his partner would be left with well over 
£1,000 for food, fuel and other expenditure. As our investigator noted, Mr C and his partner 
had significant spending on non-essential items and were lending money to family members 
 which supports my view that they had plenty of disposable income. On this basis I think it 
would have been reasonable for Novuna to decide to lend to Mr C even if theyd done more 
checks.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman