DRN-3069346
The complaint and what happened
Ms K complains on behalf of her business, which Ill call B, that Cater Allen Limited wont 
reimburse transactions she didnt make or otherwise authorise from Bs account. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
On 26 January 2020, Ms K received a text, purportedly from Cater Allen, using a 
Cater Allen number, asking if a payment of £749.00 had been made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. This text was actually from a scammer. She was asked to 
confirm yes or no and she replied no. 
Ms K then received a call, from the same number, from the scammer pretending to 
be calling from Cater Allen. He informed her that several transactions were being 
attempted on the account and in order to block them, she would need to provide the 
one-time pass codes (OTPs) which would come through by text. 
The scammer made a number of transactions using the account information and 
codes provided. Ultimately, the transactions took the account overdrawn. 
Later that same evening, Ms K logged back into the account and noticed other 
payments had been set up which she cancelled. It was at this point the scam was 
realised, but Ms K wasnt able to contact Cater Allen immediately, as it wasnt open 
on a Sunday. 
As per Cater Allens records, and Ms K, the transactions are as follows:
Date Time Amount To
26 January 2020 18:21 £429.62 Cryptocurrency 
exchange
18:22 £429.62 Cryptocurrency 
exchange
18:23 £429.62 Cryptocurrency 
exchange
18:37 £904.75 Household goods 
retailer
18:45 £1,000 e-money provider
Total £3,193.61
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations PSRs 2017, B isnt liable for payments 
it didnt authorise, unless Ms K (acting on its behalf) failed with gross negligence or 
intent, to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account security details 
safe. 
Ive considered whether Ms K authorised the transactions that have been disputed  
and so, in line with the PSRs, whether she completed the agreed steps in the form 
and procedure required to make the payments or gave consent for someone else to 
complete them. 
The terms and conditions explained that the destination sort code and account 
number would be required to make payment; and that it might ask additional 
questions such as the name and address of the intended recipient. Presumably, log-
in would be required along with the amount to be paid. 
It doesnt appear in dispute that Ms K shared some of her security information 
including the OTPs. But I havent seen any evidence or arguments that it was Ms K 
that completed the steps needed in order for the payment to be made, or that she 
consented to someone else doing so. As Im not persuaded Ms K completed all the 
agreed steps to make the payments from Bs account, or that she consented to 
someone else doing so, I find the total payments of £3,193.61 were unauthorised. 
I dont find that Ms K failed with intent to keep the security credentials safe  she 
believed the information provided was necessary to prevent fraudulent transactions 
happening on Bs account. 
I also dont find she failed with gross negligence. Ms K believed she was speaking 
with Cater Allen. Ms K has told us she received a text message from the Cater Allen 
number. And when replying No to whether or not a transaction had been carried out, 
she was also called from the same number. So it would appear the genuine Cater 
Allen number was spoofed. 
Ms K tells us the scammer sounded professional and calm with office noises in the 
background. So I can understand why Ms L believed the caller was genuine. 
Ms K was asked to provide details in order to prevent fraudulent transactions 
occurring. And by providing the details, she was told the transactions were being 
blocked. During this conversation, Ms Ks partner logged onto the account, but didnt 
think anything was amiss when not seeing any attempted transactions, as this fit with 
what they were being told  the transactions were being blocked. 
I accept that Ms K sharing the OTPs shed been sent is what ultimately facilitated the 
payments being made. But she was receiving these on the same phone she was 
using to speak with the scammer. And she tells us she was getting very stressed by 
trying to speak and get messages at the same time; all the while believing the steps 
she was taking were to stop fraud on the account.  Ms K has also told us she isnt 
familiar with OTPs and wasnt aware of this type of scam. Overall, I dont think she 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk or therefore, failed with gross negligence. I 
think a lot of people would have been fooled into doing the same or something 
similar. 
I dont think Ms Ks actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Ms K, on behalf of B, isnt 
liable for the transaction in dispute and Cater Allen needs to put things right  by 
refunding the loss from the unauthorised transaction alongside intertest to 
compensate B for the time it has lost the use of the funds. 
Cater Allen can hold Ms K, on behalf of B, liable for the first £35, as per the PSRs 
and as allowed for in its terms and conditions. 
Finally, I note that Ms K is unhappy that she wasnt able to report the fraud until the 
following day. I understand why that would have been worrying. However, Cater 
Allen isnt open on Sundays. If Ms K needs a bank which is open for longer or over 
the weekend, then shell need to find one that has different opening hours. 
My final decisionFor the reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Cater Allen 
Limited to:
Pay B the total of the unauthorised transactions - £3,193.61  less the £35 allowed 
for in its terms and conditions (if it decides to deduct this); and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transact to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman