DRN-3324514
The complaint
Mrs G, Mr G and Miss Gs complaint is in relation to a mortgage application they submitted 
to Barclays Bank UK PLC. They are unhappy about the delay a mistake by Barclays caused, 
and the customer service they received, as it was difficult to get through when they called 
and they didnt receive calls when promised. They are also unhappy about Barclays 
handling of the complaint they made.
Mrs G has been the main correspondent on the complaint and where I refer to her 
comments, they should be taken to represent all three complainants. 
What happened
Miss G was purchasing a new build property. Mr and Mrs G were parties to the mortgage but 
would not have any ownership of the property. Theyve told us that the builder had given 
Miss G four weeks, from the point she paid the reservation fee, to complete the purchase. 
They have said that if they understood that if the purchase didnt complete in that time, they 
could lose the fee theyd paid, or the purchase price might increase. 
The mortgage was applied for in early 2021. The mortgage offer was issued on 26 February 
2021. As part of the process, as the property being purchased was a new build, a form had 
to be completed detailing if the builder was offering any inducements and if it was, what they 
were. Unfortunately, when the form was sent to Barclays, it made a mistake. The form had 
been completed in Miss Gs name only, as she was the only one purchasing the property, 
but Barclays mistakenly concluded that Mrs G and Mr G should also have been included in 
the form as they were on the mortgage. It took nine days for this mistake to be rectified. 
Contracts were exchange immediately thereafter and the purchase completed around four 
weeks later.
Fortunately, despite the nine days delay caused by Barclays, Mrs G has told us the builder 
allowed additional time to complete the purchase. No additional costs were incurred. 
Mrs G complained toward the end of February 2021 about the service received, including at 
that point the lack of response about the completion of the form that was holding up the 
process.  Barclays sorted out the issue with the form and the mortgage offer was issued.
Mrs G has said she received an acknowledgement of the complaint by text on 9 March 2021. 
This was followed up with a letter from Barclays dated 31 March 2021, saying the complaint 
was still be looked into. 
Barclays responded to the complaint on 8 April 2021. It acknowledged that it had provided 
incorrect information and upheld the complaint. It apologised for the inconvenience Mrs G 
had suffered and credited her bank account with £250.  Mrs G has said this letter wasnt 
received.
Mrs G then wrote to Barclays on 4 and 19 May 2021, chasing a response to the complaint, 
but didnt receive a response to those letters. Barclays has confirmed that its records dont 
show these letter as having been received. 
Having heard nothing by the middle of June 2021, Mrs G asked this service to consider the 
complaint. She asked that they be paid £250 compensation per day for the delays caused by 
the error over the form, the hours she had to work in the evenings to make up for the time 
during the days shed spent on the telephone trying to sort matters out, and the effect the 
situation had on her health.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She forwarded a copy of Barclays final response letter to Mrs G and highlighted that 
it had been sent within the regulators timescales for its provision. She also pointed out that 
buying a property is an inherently stressful experience and she thought that £250 
compensation for each day of the delay Barclays had admitted to was excessive, despite it 
being clear that they had been let down. She was of the opinion that the £250 paid by 
Barclays was sufficient in the circumstances.
Mrs G said that she accepted that £250 was fair compensation for the part of the claim up to 
the date of exchange. However, she considered that further compensation should be paid for 
the continued errors on the part of Barclays thereafter. This included being unhappy that she 
wasnt given the choice about accepting or rejecting the compensation before it had paid it. 
Mrs G considered this was an error on Barclays part and also mentioned that had they been 
given a choice they would have had the money directed to a different account. In addition, as 
the final response letter wasnt received in April, she had been unaware of where the money 
had come from, and so didnt spend it as it might have been deposited in error and 
reclaimed.
Mrs G also reiterated that she had chased a response to the complaint twice after the date 
Barclays had sent its response. She believes this should have made it obvious to Barclays 
that its response hadnt been received and it should have sent her another copy of the 
response letter. However, Barclays had ignored her. Mrs G said that she considers this 
ignorance and lack of communication was worse, in her view, than the original error made 
with the form. As such, she believed that further compensation should be paid.
Our investigator considered the further comments, but they didnt change her conclusions. 
She said it was regrettable that Mrs G didnt receive a response to her letters, but she didnt 
think it warranted additional compensation. Mrs G didnt accept the investigators position 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 January 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mrs G has accepted that the £250 compensation paid for the error that led to a nine-day 
delay in the mortgage offer being issued and the time spent on calls up to that point is 
adequate. As such, I wont comment on that issue further. However, she considers additional 
compensation is due because of the further issues during the period the complaint was 
being investigated and after the final response letter was sent. 
Usually, for a complaint to fall within our jurisdiction it must be made about a regulated 
activity. Complaint handling isnt such an activity, however, in this case I consider the service 
issues following the complaint being made are so closely linked with those subject to the 
main complaint, and for which Barclays has paid compensation, I think it would be 
appropriate to comment on them.
Barclays has confirmed that it didnt receive Mrs Gs chaser letters and Mrs G has said that 
she didnt receive the final response letter the previous month. Generally, we consider that 
letters correctly addressed are most likely to be correctly delivered. I am satisfied that all of the letters, both from and to Mrs G, were correctly addressed. However, in this case, given 
letters going in both directions werent received, it would seem possible that there may have 
been problems with the postal services in Mrs Gs area. 
The missing post resulted in Mrs G being unaware of where the money deposited into her 
account had come from and feeling like Barclays was ignoring her. It is entirely 
understandable that she felt this way, but given the circumstances, I cant hold Barclays 
responsible. 
I would agree that it would have been helpful if Barclays had asked Mrs G what bank 
account she wanted the compensation paid to. However, I dont think Barclays did anything 
specifically wrong in making the payment. Mrs G would have easily been able to transfer the 
money to a more convenient account, but for the missing post. As I have said above, I cant 
hold Barclays responsible for that.
Overall, while I acknowledge Mrs Gs feelings in this regard, I dont think further 
compensation is appropriate. 
Mrs G and Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt provide any 
further comment or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As none of the parties have provided any further comment or information they want 
considered, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G, Mrs G and Mr G to accept or reject my 
decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman