DRN-2310191
The complaint
Mr and Ms G complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms G booked a cruise holiday in late October 2018. They were due to depart on 7
December 2018.
On 6 December 2018, Mr and Ms G took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a
broker. They declared some medical conditions and were accepted for cover.
Unfortunately, Ms G suffered an anxiety attack on the day she and Mr G were due to travel.
So they cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
ERGO turned down their claim. It noted that the medical certificate Ms G had provided to
support the claim showed she hadnt seen a GP until five days after she cancelled the trip.
So it didnt think there was enough evidence to show cancellation was medically necessary.
It was also concerned that Mr and Ms G hadnt bought their policy until the day before they
were due to travel. It felt they might have been aware theyd need to cancel the trip before
they took out the policy.
Mr and Ms G werent happy with ERGOs decision. They said they hadnt been able to get
an appointment with a GP for a few days, despite trying. And theyd taken out the policy the
day before they travelled because they usually bought an annual policy and didnt realise
until right beforehand that they werent covered. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded
that Ms G had seen the doctor at the earliest opportunity. She felt Ms G had provided
medical evidence that she had an acute and unforeseen illness, which was covered by the
policy terms. She recommended that ERGO should pay Mr and Ms Gs claim, together with
interest.
ERGO disagreed. It didnt feel the investigator had considered the timing of the policy being
purchased. It wasnt satisfied that Ms G had shown she wasnt already suffering from
symptoms when she bought the policy. It reviewed a letter from Ms Gs nurse clinician,
which Ms G had sent us in support of her claim. It noted the clinician had referred to Ms G
suffering panic attacks, which it felt supported the likelihood that she was aware the trip
might need to be cancelled on 6 December 2018.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for ERGO to turn down Mr and Ms Gs claim. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
An insurer has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt turn down claims
unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the circumstances of Mr and Ms Gs claim; the
available medical evidence and the policy terms to decide whether ERGO considered the
claim reasonably. And whether I think Mr and Ms G have shown their claim is valid.
Ive first thought about whether it was fair for ERGO to turn down the claim based on the fact
that Ms G didnt see a GP until five days after the planned date of departure. The policy
doesnt specify that a policyholder must see a doctor immediately before or after cancellation
though. It simply says that a policyholder must obtain a medical certificate, which specifies
the reason for cancellation and which confirms it was medically necessary.
In my view, given Ms G cancelled the trip the day before a weekend, it wouldve been
unlikely shed have been able to get an appointment straight away. And Im persuaded she
got an appointment as soon as she could, within a reasonable timeframe. The medical
certificate did state that the cancellation was down to acute anxiety and was medically
necessary. So I think Ms G did meet the policy requirements here.
But Ive then gone on to consider whether I think its fair for ERGO to have concerns that Ms
G mayve been experiencing symptoms before she and Mr G took out the policy. The
cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events ERGO covers. It says:
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of
which you were unaware at the time you booked the trip or purchased the policy (whichever
is later
You, a close relative, travelling companion or any person that you have arranged to stay with
during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or death.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Ms G took out the policy several weeks after they booked the
trip  and that it was bought on the day before they were due to depart. So Ive looked
closely at the available medical evidence to consider what I think is most likely to have
happened.
The medical certificate was completed by Ms Gs nurse clinician, who gave the reason for
cancellation as acute anxiety. I note she answered no to a question which asked whether
there was a previous history of this condition. But Ive also looked carefully at a follow-up
letter the nurse clinician later wrote to support Ms Gs claim. This says that Ms Gs trip had
been cancelled due to a sudden exacerbation of medical conditions.
It goes on to say: (Ms G) suffers with anxiety and around this time she was suffering
numerous stressors which caused her to suffer panic attacks. She also had longstanding
problems with arthritic joints and had a flare up of acute pain. She was diagnosed with an
infection requiring treatment with antibiotics. These conditions severely affected both her
mental health and mobility and rendered her unable to go on the trip as planned.
This letter seems to suggest that Ms G did have an existing diagnosis of anxiety and that
she was having panic attacks. It also seems to suggest that Ms G was suffering from poor
mental health, acute pain, an infection and poor mobility, which meant that she couldnt
travel. Theres no medical evidence to indicate that these conditions only manifested
themselves or deteriorated in the hours after Ms G bought the policy. So it currently seems
reasonable to conclude that Ms G was likely to be suffering from symptoms she ought to
have been aware could lead to a claim when she bought the policy.
Ive also looked closely at the medical certificate that Mr and Ms G provided. A box has been
ticked to confirm that Ms G was not fit to travel when the policy was effected. Again, this
would suggest that Ms Gs health at that point meant it was likely she and Mr G might need
to make a cancellation claim.The cancellation section of the policy provides cover for unforeseen illnesses. Insurance is
designed to cover unexpected events. Based on the medical evidence Ive seen so far, it
seems that Ms G ought to reasonably have been aware of the possibility that she might need
to make a claim when she bought the policy. And that she was suffering from symptoms of
anxiety at this point too. This means that I currently think - in the absence of medical
evidence which clearly shows that Ms G was both fit to travel when she bought the policy
and wasnt suffering from symptoms which ought to have prompted her to realise she might
shortly need to make a claim  it was fair for ERGO to rely on the evidence it did have and
turn down the claim.
Its open to Mr and Ms G to obtain further medical evidence in response to this provisional
decision should they wish to do so, although I need to make it clear that this would be at
their own expense.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
ERGO didnt respond within the deadline I gave.
Mr and Ms G didnt accept my provisional decision. They said Ms Gs anxiety and panic 
attacks werent pre-existing conditions. They sent me a copy of Ms Gs medical records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Mr G and Ms Gs claim and Ill 
explain why.
Mr G and Ms G have now obtained a copy of Ms Gs medical records and have sent them to 
me. Mr and Ms G maintain that Ms G hadnt suffered from panic attacks or anxiety 
previously. So Ive looked closely at the records theyve sent us. In particular, Ive looked 
closely at the entry for 12 December 2018  which was the date Ms G visited the surgery 
following the cancellation of the trip.
The nurse clinician has noted: History  anxiety/panic attacksongoing for a little while. 
The notes also reflect that Ms G was worrying/stressed/anxious. It also seems that Ms G 
was already on a medication which is commonly used to treat anxiety and depression  as 
the nurse clinician increased her dose.
Ive also seen that during a GP appointment in November 2019, the doctor noted Ms G had 
been taking a medication which is commonly used to treat depression and anxiety 2 years 
ago. 
So it seems to me that taking together the nurse clinicians letter, the claim form and medical 
notes, the available medical evidence does suggest that Ms G was suffering symptoms of 
anxiety and panic attacks which had been going on for a while. So I think it was fair for 
ERGO to conclude that Ms G was likely suffering with symptoms at the time she took out the 
policy. And that she ought to have been aware of the possibility that she might need to make 
a claim. I also havent seen enough evidence to counter the statement on the claim form that 
Ms G wasnt fit to travel when the policy was taken out.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr G and Ms Gs position, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn 
down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that l 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman