DRN-3995209
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint against Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing 
(IWeb), is about the impact of their delay in transferring his stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
On 29 July 2021, Mr W requested the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA from his 
previous provider to IWeb. IWeb told Mr W that it might take two to three weeks for them to 
receive a valuation of his investments and a further eight to ten weeks for the funds to be 
transferred.  
The transfer process was delayed, and it wasnt until 9 December 2021 that IWeb confirmed 
it had been completed. However, on 16 February 2022 IWeb identified a reconciliation 
problem with one of Mr Ws fund holdings (fund A) and so the transfer of that holding was 
reversed and processed again. That was explained to Mr W when he contacted IWeb via 
their online chat facility on 1 March 2022. On 19 May 2022, IWeb told Mr W that the transfer 
of fund A had been successfully completed. 
 
Mr W complained to IWeb about the time taken to transfer his holdings. He asked to be 
compensated for:
The losses he incurred as a result of not being able to sell his holding in fund A, 
which made up most of the value of his ISA, after the reconciliation problem had 
been identified. He said his holding reduced in value by more than £5000 between 
16 February and 18 May 2022, and that was a period during which he was unable to 
issue a trading instruction.
The anxiety and distress caused to him by the poor service that IWeb provided 
throughout the transfer process.  
IWeb said they couldnt consider Mr Ws claim for financial loss as they hadnt received a 
trading instruction from him. They offered to pay Mr W £350 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delay in his ISA transfer. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and said:
Mr W had suffered inconvenience and anxiety as a result of IWebs failures and delays. 
He thought IWeb should pay Mr W £500 in compensation.
He wouldnt be awarding compensation in relation to Mr Ws complaint about fund A as 
he hadnt seen any evidence from the time that Mr W said he intended to sell the fund or 
that he was unable to do so because of the transfer delays.  
IWeb accepted our investigators findings. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. He said:
He thought our investigators award of £500 for the distress caused by IWeb was 
reasonable.
He thought evidence of missed investment opportunity clearly existed by the fact that 
IWeb took fund A out of his portfolio and removed the possibility of him selling it. IWeb 
gave him no indication of how he could access any aspect of their service, including how 
to monitor the funds performance and trade it. During the period in question Mr Ws 
holding lost about £5,000 in value and that constitutes clear evidence of missed 
investment opportunity and consequent financial loss. 
It was true that when he contacted IWeb he didnt explicitly state an intention to trade out 
of the fund, but it wasnt fair and reasonable for the investigators findings to depend on 
that. IWeb had in effect withdrawn all services for the fund and so the inability to trade 
was self-evident. He didnt pursue the matter of getting his holding back merely for the 
peace of mind of seeing it reappear in his portfolio. 
It wasnt reasonable to say he should have explicitly stated an intention to trade the fund. 
It was obvious he couldnt access it so any expression of a wish to trade would have 
been pointless.
By withdrawing all services in relation to fund A and not suggesting any ways to access 
them, IWeb failed to meet his reasonable expectations of being kept informed of the 
funds performance. He received no information on how it was performing during that 
period and its loss in value only became apparent after it reappeared. If it hadnt gone 
missing, he would have been able to monitor the funds performance and decide to sell 
it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key outstanding point I need to determine is whether IWeb should compensate Mr W for 
the loss in value of his holding in fund A during the period they were resolving an issue with 
the transfer of that fund. Between 16 February and 18 May 2022 Mr W was unable to 
monitor the performance of fund A through his IWeb account or to sell any of his holding in 
the fund.
The specific problem with fund A followed the long delay in the initial transfer of Mr Ws ISA 
from his previous provider. Taken together, the two delays represented a clear failing on the 
part of IWeb to provide the service they should have to Mr W. I can understand why Mr W 
feels strongly about what happened and Id like to reassure him that I have looked carefully 
at everything he has said.
Before awarding compensation for a loss of this kind, I would usually want to be satisfied 
there was evidence that an investor had been planning to sell an investment at a given time. 
In this case Ive not seen evidence that Mr W was planning to sell his holding in fund A 
during the period in question. 
I understand that Mr W contacted IWeb twice in the period between 16 February and 
18 May 2022, but on neither occasion did he say he intended to sell his holding in fund A. 
I also understand that Mr W continued to retain his holding after the transfer was eventually 
completed, at least until the time he brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. I appreciate that Mr W has said he was unable to monitor the performance of his holding in 
fund A through his IWeb account. As Ive already noted, that represented a failing on the part 
of IWeb. However, although it would have been an inconvenience for Mr W, he could 
potentially have accessed information about the performance of fund A in other ways. 
I accept that it is possible that if Mr W had been able to access his holding in fund A, he may 
have decided to sell it at some point between February and May 2022. But the value of 
investments does of course fluctuate, and it is also possible that Mr W would have decided 
to retain his holding in the hope that it would recover its value.
Overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to say it is more likely than not that Mr W would have 
sold his holding during the period in question and that IWeb should be responsible for 
compensating him for any losses suffered as a result of him not being able to do so.
It is clear however that IWebs service from the point Mr W requested the transfer of his ISA 
through to May 2022 fell a long way short of what they were expected to provide. I agree 
with our investigators finding, which I note both parties also accept, that it would be fair and 
reasonable for IWeb to pay Mr W £500 in compensation for the significant distress and 
inconvenience they caused to him.     
I appreciate this will be a disappointing decision for Mr W, but I wont be asking IWeb to do 
anything more than pay the compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold in part Mr Ws complaint 
against Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing. 
 
To compensate Mr W fairly, IWeb should pay him £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman