DRN-3415210
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Arval UK Limited wont pay to repair a car he acquired under a hire 
agreement.
What happened
Mr S says he acquired a new car under a hire agreement in February 2020. In December 
2021, he had an issue with the clutch of the car and couldnt engage the gears. When this 
happened, Mr S says he was driving home, so he continued to drive the car home up a 
steep hill, instead of leaving the car where it was to avoid causing obstruction in the road.
Arval say an inspection was carried out on the car and it stated that the damage caused to 
the clutch was due to the way Mr S drove the car. And also, that damage to the clutch had 
happened over a period of time. So, the repair for this wasnt covered by the maintenance 
cover. However, Arval agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to pay for the cost of the clutch 
components that were needed to carry out the repair and the friction plate  which Arval say 
was a total of £305.03. So, this left Mr S with a total of £1,121.68 plus VAT to pay  this was 
made up of £1,036.68 which were the labour costs for the clutch repair as well as the cost of 
the inspection report which was £85. Mr S doesnt agree that the issue he experienced with 
the clutch was as a result of his driving style. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. He said having thought about The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and what it says about goods being of satisfactory quality alongside 
the findings of the independent report that was carried out on Mr S car, he didnt think the 
fault with the clutch was as a result of the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr S. So, our Investigator didnt think Arval had done anything wrong in asking 
Mr S to pay for the labour costs and the cost of the inspection report.
Mr S disagreed. He said hes been driving the car in the same way now as he was before 
and that he had to drive up a steep hill after he experienced issues with the clutch in order to 
get home. Mr S acknowledged that while not being able to change gears when doing this 
may have caused further damage, the clutch of the car shouldnt have been slipping under 
normal conditions. Mr S also says he wasnt happy that Arval sent hm a letter asking him to 
make payment while we were investigating his complaint. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer hire agreement  so we can consider a 
complaint relating to it. Arval are also the hirer of the goods under this type of agreement, 
and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history. 
Arval supplied Mr S with a new car. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect the level of quality to be higher than a second-hand, more road-worn car. And that it 
could be used  free from defects  for a considerable period of time. 
Based on the evidence I have from both parties; it seems likely there was a fault with the car. 
I say this because Ive looked at the report of the inspection carried out on Mr S car. And I 
can see this report makes reference to the car being recovered as a result of the clutch 
failing. The report then goes on to note that the clutch friction plate has disintegrated, and 
the damage caused was as a result of the clutch being subjected to extreme heat and 
slippage. 
Ive already said why I think there was a fault with the car. But just because something went 
wrong, that doesnt mean the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
S.  Im sorry to hear Mr S experienced a problem with the clutch and that this impacted him 
being able to drive home.
Having looked at the report, I can see the inspector assessed the damage to the clutch and 
concluded that the clutch was subjected to temperatures that far exceeded the 
manufacturers design tolerances  this can be caused as a result of the clutch slipping. Mr S 
has acknowledged the clutch was slipping and he wasnt able to engage the gears in 
December 2021, but he drove the car in order to get it home. The report also says a clutch 
subjected to normal wear and tear wouldnt resemble the condition of the clutch as seen in 
Mr S car when it was inspected. The finding in the report was made that the premature 
failure of the clutch was as a direct result of Mr S driving style. I find this evidence to be 
persuasive and I think its unlikely the car had problems with the clutch when Arval supplied 
it to Mr S. Therefore, I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr S.
I appreciate Mr S says he experienced the clutch slipping previously, under normal 
conditions. However, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr S raised issues he was 
experiencing with the clutch before this instance.
I note Arval have said that as a gesture of goodwill, theyve covered the cost of the clutch 
components and friction plate. This leaves Mr S to pay £1,121.68  as explained above this 
is for the cost of the labour and the cost of the inspection report. I note Mr S has told us that 
he doesnt have much money to make this payment. I understand Mr S concern so I asked 
Arval if theyd be prepared to discuss ways in which he can repay this amount in a fair way. 
Arval told me that theyll speak to Mr S to agree a payment plan on receipt of this decision. 
Its up to Mr S to engage with this and for both him and Arval to come to a mutual 
arrangement to repay.
I understand Mr S is unhappy Arval sent him a letter in February 2022 asking him to make 
payment while we were looking into things for him. While I appreciate Mr S concern, 
businesses arent obliged to stop their communication with a customer about any 
outstanding payments because a complaint has come to us. Therefore, I dont think I can 
reasonably say Arval have treated Mr S unfairly when sending him this letter.My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman