DRN-2509159
The complaint
Mr B complains about the delayed (in-specie) transfer of his ISA from Financial 
Administration Services Limited (referred to as Fidelity) to a new provider referred to as 
the transferee.   
Mr B says hes suffered financial loss as a result of the delays. 
What happened
On 10 December 2019, the in-specie application to transfer was received by Fidelity. The 
transfer was successfully completed on 28 April 2020. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The delay has been caused by intermittent movements in stocks which have 
impacted the portfolio valuation. In other words, the transfer process has been 
impacted by the trading thats caused it to start and stop several times. 
A snapshot of this is demonstrated by the following timeline:
o10 December 2019  Fidelity received the in-specie application to transfer.
o12 December 2019  Mr B bought and sold Tullow Oil Plc units. 
o13 December 2019  Fidelity sent an ISA valuation to the transferee.
o17 December 2019  Mr B bought Non-Standard Finance Plc units, rendering 
the previous valuation invalid. 
o09 January 2020  The transferee sent its acceptance of the valuation but on 
15 January 2020 the transfer was rejected by Fidelity  because it wasnt 
accurate  and a new request commenced.  
o23 January 2020  Mr B sold Non-Standard Finance Plc units.
o30 January 2020  Mr B bought Hurricane Energy Plc units. 
o4 February 2020  Fidelity received the transferees request with a date 
stamped valuation (dated 30 January 2020) and requested a valuation. 
According to Fidelitys policy, an application to transfer cant proceed without the 
acceptance of a valid valuation which is determined by the units of holdings held 
within the account. So, if the units of holdings are bought or sold  after an 
application to transfer  this will (inevitably) effect the valuation.  
For the (transfer) process to move forward the transferee must accept the valuation, 
and in doing so confirm that the assets can be held on their platform, before the 
management of the assets can be handed over to it.  
Between December 2019 and April 2020, Mr B traded seven times whilst Fidelity and 
the transferee tried to progress the request to transfer. 
The trading led the transferee to query discrepancies and/or Fidelity rejecting its 
acceptance of the valuation because it was no longer valid.      
Although Mr B specifically identified two dates  28 January 2020 and 17 March 2020 
 when he thought the application to transfer shouldve progressed  shes satisfied 
that the delays were due to interference with the investments. 
Fidelity responded to the request(s) appropriately each time and kept the transferee 
up to date with its next steps via Atlus  an industry tool designed support re-
registration of accounts between providers.  
Although Mr B made efforts to move things along by providing information to the 
transferee on the valuation of assets, both businesses had procedures in place that 
they needed to follow. So, it was appropriate for both Fidelity and the business to 
want to follow its procedures in order to satisfy themselves that the correct and up to 
date information was passing between them, in order to be able to progress the 
application to the next stage.
The transfer couldnt happen on 28 January 2020 because the transferees 
acceptance  dated 9 January 2020  only agreed to Fidelitys 13 December 2019 
valuation  made before the 17 December 2019 trades so the valuation was no 
longer accurate. On 23 January 2020, Mr B sold further units altering the valuation 
again.
Between the end of January 2020 and March 2020 the transfer is impacted by the 
buy and sell of the investments. 
On 4 February 2020, the transferee sent Fidelity the transfer form and requested a 
further valuation. But during this time, Mr B continued to trade causing a change in 
valuation. Matters simply couldnt progress until a correct valuation had been issued 
and accepted.  
Mr Bs last trade was placed on 5 March 2020 and shes seen from Atlus that the 
transfer request was rejected on 11 March 2020 by Fidelity which shouldve 
prompted a new valuation request. At the time, Mr B provided the transferee, copies 
of his current asset valuations however this wasnt appropriate given the procedure in 
place. 
Mr B chased Fidelity for the transfer throughout March 2020  during which time, he 
was notified of the outstanding information. On 3 April 2020 a valuation was issued to 
the transferee  emailed on 22 April 2020. An acceptance was received by Fidelity 
on 24 April and the transfer was eventually completed on 28 April 2020. Once the 
appropriate information was provided the transfer was completed within 30 calendar 
days. 
On 27 January 2020, Fidelity explained to Mr B: Due to the delay in receiving the 
acceptance, the valuation differs and therefore has been rejected  the email also 
referenced the effect the trades had on the valuations. The transferees email dated 
30 January 2020 also highlighted the importance of providing all the assets. 
On 3 March 2020 Mr B said he accepted the discrepancy in asset valuation was 
most likely because I sold shares and on 6 March 2020 he said I think the 
discrepancies may have arisen as I have traded some stocks over the past few 
weeks. So, Mr B wouldve been aware of the impact trading had on his transfer 
request. 
The £25 compensation offered  as a goodwill gesture  for the time taken to resolve 
his dispute was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. In short, he made the following key points:
He wasnt aware that he ought not to have traded whilst his application was ongoing. 
It wasnt something that Fidelity made clear. His decision was based on information 
publicly made available. 
The proposed date of transfer was 28 January 2020, any resulting delay wasnt 
adequately highlighted at the time of transfer. So, his actions  namely trading  
wasnt unreasonable. 
He struggles to understand the investigators point that there was no financial loss as 
his investment remained in the market. He hopes our service would understand that financial loss relates to value of an investment which is the product of the number of 
shares and the price of these shares. 
The investigators view fails to consider the extremely significant impact of the 
decrease in share prices globally as a result of the covid-19 pandemic.
He sold a share during March 2020 to try and avoid financial loss.  
Hes been unable to use his entire ISA allowance, as a result hes lost his tax benefit 
of using his entire tax allowance. 
Fidelitys treatment and response times dont accord with treating its customers fairly. 
He shouldnt be the one chasing it to progress the transfer. 
The last of his limited number of trades was on 5 March 2020, but it still took the 
business until 28 April 2020 to complete the transfer which is nearly two months 
rather than the 30 days.  
Fidelity took almost three months to consider his complaint which is indicative that 
this complaint wasnt clear-cut.  
The goodwill payment  compared to the hours chasing, let alone the (thousands of 
pounds) of financial loss - is inadequate. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she clarified/reiterated the following key points:
On 27 January 2020 Mr B emailed Fidelity asking about the settlement date. Fidelity 
responded (the same day) and explained:
oWe sent a valuation to the transferee (name anonymised) on 13 December 
2019, they then sent the acceptance on 15 January 2020. Due to the delay in 
receiving the acceptance, the valuation differs and therefore has been 
rejected.
Fidelity received Mr Bs request on 10 December 2019 and generated a valuation 
which was accepted by the transferee on 9 January 2020 but given the activities in 
between the valuation was rendered inaccurate and so rejected in due course. 
The Fidelity email suggests that the valuation difference caused by the trades on 12 
and 17 December, so Mr B had an awareness of the asset list, the significance of it 
and an accurate valuation. 
Mr B was permitted to trade and there was no prohibition, but it was likely to have a 
knock-on effect on the validity of the valuation and the process moving ahead. 
Whilst Mr B managed his trades and has an understanding of the market 
movements, she is satisfied he wouldve had an appreciation of the asset changes. 
The assets identified on the application were waiting to be transferred so if they didnt 
match the valuation this was likely to cause delays whilst the businesses verified the 
assets. 
On 10 February 2020, Fidelity issued a new valuation which was queried by the 
transferee on 17 February 2020 and referenced in Mr Bs communication dated 3 
March 2020. Trading again occurred on 14 March 2020, when he asked if the 
transferee had accepted the valuation. 
Although Mr B was told it could, by 20 March 2020, Fidelity still hadnt received the 
transferees acceptance. The intervening trades meant the transferee had to request 
another valuation which wasnt received by Fidelity.  
Fidelity issued a new valuation dated 3 April 2020, which was re-sent on 22 April 
2020, and accepted on 24 April 2020.  After some minor clarification the transfer was 
completed.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im not persuaded that 
Fidelity is responsible for the delays or any subsequent financial loss to Mr B. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling that Mr B has about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a 
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and Fidelity, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
The delays, experienced by Mr B  during his in-specie application to transfer his ISA to a 
new provider  were, in the main, as a result of invalid/inaccurate valuations, which didnt  
at point of validation  match the actual value of the stocks held by him.  
In other words, from the snapshot of the (summary) chronology of events  between 
December 2019 and February 2020  I can see that the transfer process couldnt be 
completed, on several occasions, because the valuations provided didnt match the actual 
value of the assets held by Mr B at the time.   
Im mindful that the primary reason for this is that Mr B continued to trade stocks even after 
submitting his application, whilst Fidelity and the transferee were trying to ascertain and 
agree upon an up to date and accurate valuation of the stocks held by him  which neither 
business was able to do because of the intermittent trades. I note the investigator says that 
between December 2019 and April 2020 Mr B did this at least seven times. So, in the 
circumstances, Im unable to blame Fidelity for the delays. 
I note this is primarily the reason why the transfers couldnt go ahead on 28 January 2020 
and 17 March 2020 two of the dates that Mr B thought the transfer shouldve gone ahead. 
In relation to 28 January 2020, I note on 9 January 2020 the transferee accepted Fidelitys 
valuation dated 13 December 2019. But on 17 December 2019 Mr B bought Non-Standard 
Finance Plc units, and again sold units on 23 January 2020, rendering the previous valuation 
invalid, so the process of validation had to start again. 
Moving forwards, I note that on 3 April 2020 a valuation was issued to the transferee  
emailed on 22 April 2020. An acceptance was received by Fidelity on 24 April and the 
transfer was eventually completed on 28 April 2020. Once the appropriate information was 
provided the transfer was completed within 30 calendar days. Im not here to consider whether or (or not) Mr B is at fault, my role is to consider the actions 
of Fidelity and whether (or not) its to blame for any delays and in this instance, I dont think it 
is. That notwithstanding, I think Mr B knew, or ought reasonably to have known that whilst he 
had the option to continue to trade  this would have an impact on the value of the stocks 
held by him and therefore any valuation agreed between Fidelity and the Transferee, leading 
to (inevitable) delays because the values were unlikely to match.  
Im mindful that Fidelity has procedures to follow, so it needs to agree an exact figure with 
the transferee, and make sure that the valuation is correct, rather than allow the transfer to 
go through on an incorrect basis or on the basis of information supplied by Mr B. Im 
conscious that the transferee also needs to make sure that it can accept stocks on its 
platform before theyre transferred.  
It seems to me that Mr B  despite his frustration accepts this. Im conscious that the 
investigator notes that on 3 March 2020 Mr B said he accepted the discrepancy in asset 
valuation was most likely because I sold shares and on 6 March 2020 he said I think the 
discrepancies may have arisen as I have traded some stocks over the past few weeks. 
Nevertheless, I appreciate the point Mr B makes about financial loss, I wonder if theres 
been some confusion or miscommunication, Im mindful Mr B describes himself as a 
qualified financial person, so I apologise if Im repeating matters, hes familiar with. 
But despite what he says, I dont think that Fidelity is responsible for the loss in value of the 
investment. The investment value is dependent on the stockmarket, and it seems Mr B 
accepts that its not something that Fidelity can predict or control, especially in a global 
pandemic which is likely to have an impact on the global stockmarket.
I also note that the transfer was made in-specie to reduce the impact of any adverse market 
movements. Which means Mr Bs investments will have remained invested during the 
transfer. 
In my opinion, its principally factors that were outside of Fidelity control that led to the 
delays, so I dont think in this instance I can safely say that Fidelity is responsible for Mr B 
not being able to make use of his ISA allowance. 
Im mindful of Mr Bs points about his final transfer, but length of time is likely to be as a 
result of the time taken to verify and confirm the (latest) status and value of his stocks, and 
the time taken for the transferee to respond to Fidelity accepting/rejecting the valuation. I 
know Mr B says he sold a share in March 2020, to try and minimise his financial loss, but in 
turn this transaction probably caused the transfer to take longer. 
I dont think the length of time taken to respond to Mr B is of itself indicative that the 
complaint wasnt clear cut. Fidelity, like many businesses, will be dealing with the challenges 
of a new way of working during the global pandemic. 
 
The £25 compensation offered to Mr B  as a goodwill gesture  is for the delay in 
responding to his complaint which I think is broadly fair and reasonable. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr Bs unhappiness, this isnt compensation for financial loss  which I dont think hes 
suffered in this instance  its also not compensation for the time he spent perusing this 
complaint. 
I appreciate Mr B will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as
the investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that 
Fidelity has (overall) done anything wrong in transferring his ISA. I realise my decision isnt what Mr B wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
unable to uphold this complaint and give him what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman