DRN-4029806
The complaint
Mr C complains through his representatives, Mr C and Mrs C, that Nationwide Building 
Society did not tell them about the reduction of interest in 2020 on Mr Cs savings account. 
They want the original interest rate to be paid on the account.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C represent Mr C for whom they opened a savings account with a variable
interest rate with Nationwide. Mr and Mrs C said they were only made aware of a reduction 
in interest rate when they visited a Nationwide branch in December 2021  and yet the 
interest had been reduced much earlier in May 2020. They said they didnt receive any 
letters about it. They think they should get the original interest rate paid on the account. Mr 
and Mrs C also said Nationwide took too long to respond to their complaint.
Nationwide said the interest rate had been reduced to various levels on the complainants 
account from 2% to 0.5% and from 0.5% to 0.05% depending on the number of withdrawals 
made. This reduction in interest rates was based on the Bank of England interest rate which 
also reduced on at least two occasions in quick succession at that time.
Nationwide said it sent separate letters to Mr C and Mrs C by Royal Mail in July 2018 dealing
specifically with Mr Cs savings account. Both letters explained how Mr C and Mrs C could
keep track of interest rates because Nationwide was about to stop sending written annual
savings statements. So Nationwide rejected Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Our investigator also rejected the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigators
view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. I issued my provisional decision in 
February 2023 where I decided the complaint should not be upheld. A copy of my provisional 
decision was sent to all parties, and they were invited to produce new evidence and 
comments. Nationwide had no new evidence to produce or further comments to make. Mr C 
and Mrs C added further comments as follows:
They did not receive the letters in July 2018
It is not possible to access the account online.
They can only get the interest rates by going into a branch  and this means a long 
bus journey for them.
Nationwide has made it unnecessarily difficult to manage the account.
I have examined these comments in more detail below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am intending not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a
disappointing result for Mr C and Mrs C, so I will explain why.
The terms and conditions of the Smart Limited Access account allow Nationwide to vary the 
interest rate and to tell account holders about any changes and how to keep themselves 
informed about changes. Mr C and Mrs C said they did not know anything about interest 
rates going down on the account because they hadnt received any letters about it. 
Nationwide has explained that it notified all affected customers about these changes by 
sending letters between March and April 2020. But it has no record of any letter being sent 
to Mr and Mrs C about this. So with that in mind, Ive gone onto consider whether Nationwide 
had done anything else to make Mr and Mrs C aware of this change in any other way.
In considering the wider circumstances here, Nationwide says it sent two letters separately
addressed to Mr C and Mrs C in July 2018 letting them know about how to access all
information about interest rates on the savings account they held for Mr C. I looked very
carefully at the letters sent to Mr C and Mrs C in 2018 about Mr Cs savings account. Both
letters explained the following:
That this was going to be the last year Mr C and Mrs C were going to receive written
annual savings statements about the account.
Mr C and Mrs C could still keep track of the interest rates by using the Internet Bank
or a banking app on their mobile telephones.
They could also join the SavingsWatch email/text service to keep track of interest
rates.
They were given instructions on how to join the SavingsWatch service.
I could see the separate letters were addressed to Mr C and Mrs C at a former address. Mr
C and Mrs C confirmed they didnt move from that address to their current address until
February 2021, so it is reasonable to assume the letters were correctly addressed. However, 
Mr C and Mrs C say they did not receive these letters, although they had previously told 
Nationwide they had no problems with post. From the evidence I have seen, the letters in 
July 2018 were correctly addressed and dated, so I can reasonably assume they were sent 
on the date shown in the letters. I also think it would be unreasonable to hold Nationwide 
responsible for letters not delivered by the postal service as Nationwide has no control over 
that process. 
So I think it is likely that they were still living at the address where these letters were sent. I
also think the letters explained clearly how they could keep track of the interest rates on the
account. It was then a matter for Mr C and Mrs C to decide whether to use any of the
electronic systems they had been referred to. The letters also went on to explain that if they
didnt want to use these new systems, then they could keep track of the interest rates by
going into a Nationwide branch  which I note they did do in 2021.
So I think they had been given all the information they needed to keep track of the interest
rate on the savings account. I appreciate they said they didnt know about the interest rates
changing, but I think it is more likely the letters Ive referred to above were sent and they
either forgot about the letters or they decided not to use the electronic systems. It follows 
that I dont think I can reasonably conclude from the evidence available to me, that
Nationwide did anything wrong here or acted unfairly.
Mr C and Mrs C recently said they couldnt use internet banking for this account because it 
was not eligible for online access. However, the terms of the Smart Limited Access account do allow for internet access thought internet banking or through the banking app. So I dont 
think Nationwide has made it unnecessarily difficult to manage the account.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs C wanted, but it follows from all the above
that I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C also complained about the service provided by Nationwide and the time
Nationwide took to respond to them about their complaint. However, I did note that
Nationwide did respond to the complainants within the guidance set by the Financial
Conduct Authority. So I am not going to uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman