DRN-4379867
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, because of issues he had 
accessing his accounts while he was overseas.
What happened
Mr R was overseas and found that his Halifax debit card wasnt working which meant that he
couldnt make card payments of withdraw money from cash machines.
Mr R contacted Halifax about this and was incorrectly told that the overseas country in
question was a sanctioned country which meant that Halifax couldnt provide any banking
services there, which was why his debit card didnt work. Mr R wasnt happy that his debit
card continued to not work in the country in question or with the reason hed been given as
to why. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr R and confirmed hed been given incorrect information as to why his
debit card hadnt worked while he was overseas. Halifax apologised to Mr R for this and for
the fact they had his telephone number recorded incorrectly on their systems which had
meant theyd been unable to contact him while he was overseas, and they paid £50 to Mr R
as compensation for any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred.
Halifax also confirmed to Mr R that the reason his debit card had been blocked was because
of their automated fraud prevention systems and explained that they had now updated their
systems so that he should now be able to use the card with full functionality. Mr R wasnt
satisfied with Halifaxs response and his debit card continued to not work. So, he referred his
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Halifax had acted
unfairly by blocking Mr Rs card for the reason they did. But they felt that Mr R had incurred a
degree of trouble and upset because of the provision of wrong information and because of
Halifax not having his phone number listed correctly on their systems that merited further
compensation beyond the £50 that Halifax had already paid. Because of this our investigator
said Halifax should pay a further £200 to Mr R, taking the total compensation to £250.
Halifax agreed with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator. But Mr R
remained dissatisfied and felt that a larger award of compensation was merited here. So, the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 September 2023 as follows:
I feel its necessary to clarify the scope of this complaint. Specifically, its notable that when 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service, he mentioned issues hed encountered while 
being overseas in two separate countries  one of which was Morocco. However, Halifax 
have explained that theyve never received a complaint from Mr R about any issues he may 
have experienced in Morocco. And their submissions to this service are only concerning Mr 
Rs complaint about issues he experienced while in the other country.
The rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute Resolution
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  include that we can
only consider a complaint after a business has had an opportunity to respond to that
complaint themselves.
In this instance, Halifax havent had an opportunity to respond to Mr Rs complaint about the
issues he experienced while in Morocco. And this means that this service cant consider that
aspect of his complaint at that time. Consequently, this means that my decision here will only
be in consideration of the issues that Mr R experienced while in the other country  which is
a complaint that Halifax have considered and have issued a complaint response to.
Should Mr R want the issues he experienced while in Morocco to be considered, he would
need to direct his complaint about those issues to Halifax in the first instance and allow them
the opportunity to respond to them. If Mr R isnt satisfied with Halifaxs response to that
complaint, or if Halifax dont respond to him within eight weeks, then he may have the right
to refer his complaint about the issues he experienced while in Morocco to this service.
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity that
may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a
possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that financial
institutions such as Halifax have an obligation to employ such systems to comply with
banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their customers
accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
Additionally, Halifaxs obligations to protect their customers money, and to have systems in
place to do so, exists regardless of where their customers may be. And so, I dont feel that it
was unfair or unreasonable for Halifax to have blocked Mr Rs debit card because of security
concerns as they did while Mr R was overseas.
Halifax have confirmed to this service that the nature of the block that was placed on Mr Rs
debit card means that Mr R needs to speak with Halifax to enable that block to be removed.
Mr R did contact Halifax via online chat while overseas, at which time he was incorrectly told
that that his debit card wouldnt work in the country in question because it was a sanctioned
country. Halifax corrected their mistake on the online chat a short while later, but by this time
Mr R had left the online chat.
Additionally, when Halifax responded to Mr Rs complaint  which they did via a letter dated
24 February 2023  they again failed to explain to Mr R that he needed to contact them to
remove the block on his account. Instead, Halifax explained that his debit card had been
blocked because of security concerns but then incorrectly explained that they had updated
their systems to that the functionality of Mr Rs card would be restored.
Finally, Halifax also had Mr Rs phone number incorrectly recorded on their systems  an
error which Halifax acknowledge was made by themselves. This meant that the automated
calls and messages that Mr R should have received from Halifax regarding the blocking of
his debit card wasnt received by him.
All of which means that, while I dont feel that Halifax acted unfairly by blocking Mr Rs debit
card as they did, its clear that Mr R hasnt received the standard of service from Halifax
surrounding this matter that hes reasonably entitled to expect. This includes being givenincorrect information by Halifax on two occasions and not receiving communications from
Halifax because of an error on Halifaxs part. And I dont feel the £50 that Halifax have paid
to Mr R to date does provide fair compensation for this sequence of poor service.
As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour and instructing Halifax
to make a further payment of £250 to Mr R, taking the total compensation amount to £300.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the impact of these events on Mr R, as hes
explained them to this service, and including that I feel its reasonable for Mr R to have not
telephoned Halifax to unblock his card while overseas having already been incorrectly told
that there was no opportunity for his card to work in that country because it was a sanctioned
country. And Ive also considered the general framework which this service uses when
assessing compensation amounts for upset and inconvenience  details of which can be
found on this services website.
I also note that if Mr R is continuing to have issues with his debit card, he will need to speak
with Halifaxs Debit Card Fraud Team via telephone to resolve them.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision letter and explained that he didnt feel that 
additional £250 compensation Id provisionally instructed was fair regarding the level of 
upset and inconvenience that hed experienced. 
Notably, when Mr R discussed this matter with our investigator, he referenced issues that 
hed experienced while in Morocco. However, as explained in my provisional decision letter, 
this review isnt in consideration of the issues he experienced while in Morocco. Rather, its 
only in consideration of the issues that Mr R experienced while in the other overseas 
country, as described in the What happened section of this letter. And, as also explained in 
the provisional decision letter, if Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Halifax 
while in Morocco, he will need to raise this matter with Halifax as a new complaint. 
Mr R also noted that he had provided his correct number to Halifax, but that Halifax failed to 
add the country code, which meant that when they tried to call him while he was abroad the 
call didnt connect. I appreciate Mr R clarifying this point, but I can confirm that I was aware 
of these details at the time of my review. Indeed, I noted in my provisional decision letter that 
Halifax had confirmed that the error in recording Mr Rs phone number was made by 
themselves. 
Finally, Mr R reiterated that he had told Halifax that he was going overseas before travelling. 
Again, I acknowledged this point in my provisional decision letter. But I can only reiterate that 
the fact that Mr R was overseas  regardless of whether he told Halifax about this or not  
doesnt mean that Halifax dont or shouldnt apply their fraud prevention systems to his 
account and the transaction that occur on it. And, ultimately, it remains my position that 
Halifax didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by blocking Mr Rs account as a response to their 
fraud prevention systems as they did.
Ultimately, while I appreciate that Mr R may not agree, it remains my position that a further 
£250 compensation does provide a fair resolution to him for the troubles that he experienced 
solely while in the overseas country which he was incorrectly told was a sanctioned country. 
As such, while Ive taken Mr Rs further comments on board, I continue to feel that the 
position I outlined in my provisional letter is a fair outcome here, and so my final decision will 
be a confirmation of that position. 
Putting things right
Halifax must make a further payment of £250 to Mr R, in addition to the £50 that theyve already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman