DRN-3188135
The complaint
Mr B complains that XL Insurance Company SE (hereafter XL Insurance) unfairly settled 
his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr B is a delivery driver. He has access to a group income protection policy and following an 
accident at work in November 2020 made a claim on it. 
XL Insurance accepted Mr Bs claim and told him that hed receive £75 a day, for up to 30 
days, in benefit. But when it went on to pay the claim, it only paid him £30 a day. 
Mr B complained about the difference. XL Insurance apologised and said it had initially given 
him incorrect information. It confirmed that the policy only provided £30 a day for delivery 
drivers and said it had therefore settled the claim correctly. 
Unhappy with what had happened Mr B referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that the terms of the policy did set out that delivery drivers would 
be entitled to a payment of £30 a day, for up to 30 days, which meant XL Insurance had 
settled the claim correctly. However, they said that by giving Mr B incorrect information, XL 
Insurance had mismanaged his expectations and should pay £250 in compensation to 
recognise the impact of that.
Mr B disagreed with the compensation our investigator had recommended. He said he 
should get the £75 a day because thats what hed been told hed get. He also said that £250 
did not compare to what he was owed, and he asked that the matter be reviewed. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
The terms and conditions of the policy explain that delivery drivers, like Mr B, will be 
entitled to £30 a day for up to 30 days. XL Insurance settled Mr Bs claim by paying 
that amount, and so I am satisfied that it settled the claim in line with the terms of the 
policy.
I appreciate Mr B was initially told he would receive a different amount. That being 
£75 a day, for up to 30 days. XL Insurance has acknowledged it gave incorrect 
information. It has apologised to Mr B, and I think it was right to do so. But Im not 
persuaded that apology fully recognises the impact of the misinformation on Mr B. 
While I accept XL Insurance did not intend to misinform Mr B, he did find himself in a 
position where he was led to believe he would be in receipt of a higher payment. 
Mr B was understandably disappointed, concerned and frustrated when he realised 
he would not be receiving that amount. And he has told this service that he had to 
use an overdraft facility because of what happened. 
The very nature of having to make an insurance claim, especially like the one Mr B 
made where hed suffered an accident and had been unable to work, often comes 
with some level of distress and inconvenience. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint I think XL Insurance unnecessarily added to Mr B distress and 
inconvenience at the time, and I think it should compensate him for that.
Compensation is not designed to be punitive. It is intended to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact a businesses mistake has had on someone. I 
have set out the impact that XL Insurances mistake had on Mr B, and for the 
reasons given above I too think that £250 represents both a fair and proportionate 
reflection of that. So that it what I will be directing XL Insurance to pay.
Putting things right
XL Insurance should put things right by paying £250 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against XL Insurance Company SE. It should 
put things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman