DRN-1970551
 
Complaint
Mr O complains that Virgin Money plc added interest and late payment fees to his account 
after it should have been closed. He also says that Virgin Money plc has incorrectly recorded 
adverse information about him with credit reference agencies.
Background
Mr O had a credit card account with Virgin. He contacted it in February 2019 and asked it to 
transfer his balance to another credit card company. He says that although the balance 
transfer was completed, Virgin didnt tell him that he would have to pay residual interest and 
it cancelled his direct debit.
Virgin wrote to Mr O in April to tell him that it wouldnt renew his card when it reached its 
expiry date. It said that the reason for this was missed payments on his account.
Mr O complained to Virgin. It investigated his complaint. It said that it accepted that Mr O 
hadnt been given clear information when he contacted it in February and agreed to refund 
all fees and charges that had been debited to his account. It also said that it would amend 
his credit file so that its error wouldnt have a detrimental effect on him. It offered to pay 
him £100 by way of compensation for the upset hed been caused.
Virgin also reviewed its decision not to renew his credit card. It said that this time it hadnt 
taken the missed payments into account. But, it didnt change its mind. Mr O wasnt satisfied. 
He was concerned that Virgins actions had affected his credit score. He says that hed 
noticed his credit score had decreased. So, he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that although Virgin shouldve told Mr O 
about the residual interest charges there was no evidence that this had stopped Mr O from 
getting credit or that it was still impacting Mr Os credit file. He also said that Virgin had given 
him reasonable notice before closing his account. He thought that £200 would be fair and 
reasonable compensation for what had happened.
Mr O didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin has accepted that it made an error when the balance transfer was completed. 
The issue I need to consider is whether its done everything that it needs to do to put 
things right here.Ive considered whether Virgin was right to tell Mr O that it wouldnt renew his card 
when it expired. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. They state 
that Virgin can end the agreement at any time provided that it gives the customer two 
months notice. Im satisfied that Mr O was given two months notice. So, Virgin acted in 
line with the terms and conditions for the account.
When making a decision to end an agreement Id also expect Virgin to act fairly and 
reasonably.
I can see that Virgin has reviewed its decision to end the agreement in light of the new 
information about the circumstances that led to the residual interest not having been 
paid. But, it says that it wont change its decision because it took a number of factors 
into account. So, Ive no evidence to suggest that Virgin hasnt applied its usual 
lending criteria.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Virgin acted fairly and reasonably when it 
reviewed its decision not to renew the credit card.
Ive also considered whether Virgin has taken the action that it said it would take to 
amend Mr Os credit file. Ive looked at the credit report that Mr O has provided. I can 
see that Virgin did ask the credit reference agency to update the file to show that the 
account was closed in February 2019. But Virgin didnt ask the credit reference 
agency to remove the missed payment markers which still appeared for the months 
from April to July. Id have expected this to have been done at the same time as the 
account was marked as closed.
So, Im not satisfied that Virgin did everything that it said it would do or that it shouldve 
done to correct the information held at the credit reference agency.
What I propose Virgin should do to put things right?
Mr O has told us about his concerns relating to his credit score. I can understand that. 
He says that the credit score would have been adversely impacted by Virgins decision 
to close his account and also by the missed payment information. As mentioned 
above, Im satisfied that Virgin didnt do anything wrong when it decided to close his 
account. But, Ive also said that the missed payment information should be amended.
Apart from the impact the missed payment information may have had on his credit 
score, Mr O hasnt been able to provide any evidence that hes suffered financial loss 
as a result. I can see that Virgin has already paid Mr O £200 by way of compensation 
for what has happened. I think that it should pay him a further £100 because of the 
distress and inconvenience thats been caused by its delay in making the full 
amendments to his credit file.
Virgin has now told this service that it will ask the credit reference agency to remove 
the missed payment markers. Virgin should confirm that this has been done in 
response to this provisional decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint against Virgin Money plc and I would require it to take the following actions:
confirm that it has amended the credit file records for Mr O so that the missed 
payment markers are removed; andpay Mr O an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced as a result of its delay in amending his credit file.
Mr O has responded to my provisional decision by pointing out that he hadnt been paid any 
compensation by Virgin. He says that Virgin had offered him £100 but he hadnt accepted 
this. He also says that he was under the assumption that the four missed payments caused 
an adverse effect on his credit score and there is no other explanation for this.
Virgin has accepted the provisional decision. It has confirmed that it raised an urgent request 
with the credit reference agencies on 27 April 2020 to update Mr Os credit file. Virgin also 
said it agreed to pay an additional £100 goodwill, as set out in my provisional decision, to Mr 
O to apologise for its failure to ensure the late payments reported were not removed earlier.
Virgin has confirmed that it had initially offered £100 compensation to Mr O but he didnt 
accept it. Our investigator had suggested this was increased to £200 but because Mr O 
didnt accept this, no compensation had been paid. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that, in addition to refunding the fees and charges applied to 
his account, Virgin had already paid Mr O £200 by way of compensation. Mr O pointed out 
that he hadnt received any compensation and Virgin has confirmed that this is the case. So, 
in these circumstances, Ive decided that Mr O should be paid a total of £300 by way of 
compensation. This is made up of the £200 which I incorrectly stated had already been paid 
and the additional £100 set out in my provisional decision. 
Ive also considered what Mr O has said about how the missed payments affected his credit 
score. As Ive said in my provisional decision, although the missed payment information may 
have affected his credit score in the way hes suggested, Mr O hasnt provided any evidence 
that he suffered financial loss as a result. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Virgin to pay further compensation where Mr O hasnt provided evidence of financial loss 
arising from whats happened.
In my provisional decision, I asked Virgin to take action to confirm that the information held 
at credit reference agencies is corrected and Virgin has told us that its put in an urgent 
request to deal with that. So, the missed payment information will be removed from Mr Os 
credit file. 
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that requiring Virgin to correct the 
information at the credit reference agencies and pay Mr O £300 by way of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hes been caused is fair and reasonable given all the 
circumstances. I dont require Virgin to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint about Virgin Money plc.
I now require it to take the following actions:
pay Mr O £300 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of what happened; andamend the credit file records for Mr O so that the missed payment markers are 
removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
 
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman