DRN-3892329
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded disputed transactions on his account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In August 2021 around £10,500 of payments were made across six transactions from Mr Rs 
account. In February 2022, Mr R noticed the payments and made a claim to Monzo saying 
that he didnt recognise them. Monzo considered the claim but decided not to refund these to 
Mr R. It also decided to close his account. And it paid him £115 for the way it handled the 
matter. Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
wanted the money he had lost to be refunded and that Monzo had sent a debit card to an old 
address of his. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the disputed 
transactions had been authorised using Chip & PIN and via Mr Rs mobile banking. And that 
Mr R still had his debit card and mobile phone after the event, hadnt written his PIN or 
passwords down and they werent easy to guess. The investigator added that Mr R had 
confirmed he made a total of £11,000 in payments to his Monzo account before the disputed 
payments. So, he was satisfied it was more likely than not Mr R authorised and consented to 
the payments. 
The investigator said that Monzo had fairly explained that a card that was sent to an old 
address of Mr Rs wasnt related to his account and that it had fairly given him two months 
notice of its decision to close his account with them. He added that the £115 compensation 
for its handling of this issue was fair. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that the Monzo mobile 
banking app wasnt as secure as it should be and although he did make the payments to his 
Monzo account before the disputed transactions were made, that doesnt mean he 
authorised them. He added that he doesnt recognise the merchants the payments were 
made to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Broadly speaking, Mr R is responsible for any payments that he authorised (either by making 
them himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. The relevant regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), and Ive considered these alongside the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. 
The key questions for me to decide are:
1. were the payments authorised by Mr R; and 
2. if they werent, did Mr R fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under the PSRs and/or the terms and conditions of his account?
Mr R has said that he transferred funds into his Monzo account from another account in his 
name before the disputed transactions. Im also satisfied that five of the six disputed 
transactions were authorised using Chip & PIN. The remaining payment was completed 
using Mr Rs online mobile banking. 
Ive considered Mr Rs testimony of what happened that day and the evidence provided by 
Monzo which confirms how the payments were made. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that Mr R didnt authorise or consent to the payments. The investigator has correctly pointed 
out that Mr R didnt share his PIN with a third party, and it wasnt written down. Mr R has 
said that his mobile banking passwords and PIN were also not easy to guess. Mr R also had 
his card and phone before and after the disputed payments and made a payment from his 
Monzo account to his other account after the disputed payments were made. So - on 
balance  Im satisfied he either authorised or consented to all the disputed payments here. 
Mr R is unhappy a card was sent to an old address and that his bank account has been 
closed. Ive seen that Monzo said the card wasnt requested from the account Mr R is 
complaining about here and that it hadnt made any errors by sending the card. As a result, I 
think its fairly referred Mr R to the credit reference agencies to see if any new accounts have 
been set up against his credit file that he might not recognise. 
Monzo can decide to close an account if it wishes as long as it gives fair notice in line with its 
terms and conditions  which Im satisfied it did here. 
Monzo also paid £115 in compensation for the way it handled this complaint. I think thats a 
fair offer in all the circumstances. 
As a result, Im not going to ask Monzo to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman