DRN-3731903
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have unfairly made adverse reports to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) concerning his mortgage account. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr A took out a buy to let mortgage on a property he owned (the property). Although 
initially the mortgage was taken out with a third-party company, it subsequently became a 
subsidiary of Lloyds. Mr As mother lived in the property to begin with but later decided to live 
with Mr A. At that point Mr As brother and family moved into the property. 
Mortgage payments were made to the account without fail until May 2015, but by 2017 
significant arrears had built up on the account. Because payments were missed and or late, 
Lloyds made reports to the CRAs, which naturally resulted in adverse entries on Mr As 
credit file. In 2021 however, all the mortgage arrears were cleared.
Mr A feels Lloyds have acted unfairly because they did not notify him that the mortgage 
payments were made late and/or missed. He also says that Lloyds had agreed that his 
brother was responsible for the mortgage and not him.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said it was Mr As responsibility to ensure the contractual monthly 
mortgage payments were made by the last day of each month. If any payments were late of 
missed, Lloyds said it had a duty to report that to the CRAs as it was a true and accurate 
reflection of the facts. Lloyds said it had written to Mr A at his own address and also to the 
property address to advise of the arrears. It said there was no agreement that Mr As brother 
was to be responsible for the mortgage payments, although it did agree it had received an 
authority from Mr A to allow it to discuss the mortgage account with his brother. Lloyds did 
not agree that that absolved Mr A of his contractual responsibilities.
So, Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr A was unhappy with Lloyds final 
response and so approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint 
fairly, and as Mr A didnt agree he asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
I have seen a copy of the original mortgage agreement and that clearly shows that this was 
a mortgage between Mr A and Lloyds. There is no evidence that the mortgage was changed 
or in some other way contractually amended to make Mr As brother the responsible party. 
All the correspondence Lloyds sent to Mr A and to the property address was in Mr As name 
which accords with the view that the parties to the mortgage were Mr A and Lloyds. Although 
Mr A says an agreement had been reached with his brother there is no evidence that any of 
the correspondence advising of the arrears was addressed to him, which it would have been 
had he been a party to the mortgage.
Lloyds have provided evidence of letters showing that they did in fact write to Mr A at his 
address and to the property address. I can accept that if Mr A says he did not receive those 
letters then it is likely he didnt. However, I must also accept that it is likely that Lloyds sent 
the letters, since I have seen copies, which leads me to the inevitable conclusion that they 
simply did not reach their destination. That is not the fault of Lloyds.
I am therefore satisfied that it was Mr A who as a party to the mortgage and not his brother 
or anyone else, and as such it was his responsibility to ensure he complied with the 
mortgage terms and conditions, one of which was to ensure each monthly repayment was 
made by the end of the month in which it fell due.
I have seen from Lloyds transaction list that the mortgage account did fall into arrears in 
2015 although the arrears were cleared relatively quickly. The account though fell into 
arrears again in 2016 and remained so until the end of 2021. The account shows a number 
of missed and/or late payments which led to Mr As mortgage account falling into arrears. It 
is reasonable therefore in the light of that for Lloyds to make the reports it did to the CRAs. 
The entries which appear on Mr As credit file reflect what actually happened.  I understand 
Mr A takes exception to the fact that negative reports were still being made to the CRAs 
after July 2018, but that was because although payments were made every month for sums 
in excess of the contractual sum due, the account remained in arrears despite those 
payments. I dont therefore agree that Lloyds acted unfairly since it was only reporting the 
actual facts as they appear  that being that the account remained in arrears. 
Mr A has said that he believes Lloyds had an obligation to advise him that it would be 
making an adverse credit report due to the arrears on his account. I have not seen any 
correspondence to Mr A from Lloyds wherein it states it would be making an adverse credit 
report. But, I dont agree that Lloyds were required to notify Mr A before it made such a 
report, because they had a duty to report the facts as they were. I do think it is reasonable 
for Lloyds to have notified Mr A of the arrears building on his account, and this it did when it 
wrote to him at his address and the property address, albeit Mr A didnt receive that 
correspondence.
Mr A has said that had he been advised that adverse reports were being made he or his 
family might well have taken a different approach, although he does not say what that would 
have been. It is likely that the only approach which could have taken to avoid a reporting that 
the mortgage account was in arrears, was to clear the arrears and bring the account back up 
to date. But Mr A and or his family didnt do that, and it is unlikely they would have done that 
because the monthly sums they were paying were only slightly more than the contractual 
sum. It is reasonable to conclude that this was because they did not have the financial ability 
to reduce the arrears in one go, or over a shorter time. The arrears would therefore have 
remained, and Lloyds would have had to report that fact in any event.   So, although Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman