DRN-2615236
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr S are unhappy at how EUI Limited, part of the Admiral Insurance Services Ltd 
group (Admiral), dealt with a claim made against their motor insurance policy after a road 
traffic accident.
What happened
On 24 July 2019, while driving their car, Mrs B was involved in a road traffic accident. 
Admiral arranged for the car to be repaired at an authorised repairer. But, when it was 
returned, Mrs B and Mr S werent happy  they said there were warning lights on the 
dashboard and they rejected the repairs. So he car went back to authorised repairer. 
When the car was returned to Mrs B and Mr S, they still werent happy. There were still 
warning lights which, after investigation, were established to be related to a seatbelt issue. 
Admiral didnt think this was accident related, so said they wouldnt repair it. But the car was 
assessed by an independent engineer and, following this, Admiral agreed to replace the 
seatbelt because it was a safety related part.
Mrs B and Mr S were also unhappy with a mechanical movement coming from the footwell. 
The car was assessed by an independent engineer again on 15 January 2020. The engineer 
said there was damage to the air-conditioning (AC) pump, which may be accident related. 
And a further inspection would be needed to establish the cause of the damage. After the 
car was dismantled, and the further inspection took place, the engineer said the damage to 
the AC pump wasnt accident related. So Admiral didnt take any further action.
Mrs B and Mr S werent happy, and complained to Admiral that:
the car wasnt returned to the same condition it was before the accident.
the issue with the AC pump was accident related, not wear and tear.
the independent assessors report was based on feedback from the repairer, so 
wasnt an accurate, independent assessment.
theyd requested the AC pump was stripped down at a different garage, but this didnt 
happen.
when the car was first taken to the repairer, it wasnt assessed properly. And, if thisd 
happened, then the situation couldve been avoided.
Admiral agreed they couldve done better. And they paid Mrs B and Mr S £140 
compensation for the inconvenience theyd been caused. But Mrs B and Mr S were still 
unhappy, so they brought their complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Admiral shouldve realised the seatbelt issue was a safety issue and 
shouldve approved the repair initially. But he also thought the compensation Admiral had 
already paid was sufficient for any inconvenience caused by the delay in this repair.
But the investigator also said that it was common practice for an independent engineer to 
confirm whether any damage was accident related. So he didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong by getting the car inspected. And, because the engineer was an industry 
expert, he thought it was reasonable to rely on the reports produced. So he thought Admiral 
had acted reasonably by not repairing anything that wasnt accident related  this would be 
Mrs Bs and Mr Ss responsibility. 
Mrs B and Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the investigator hadnt 
considered all of the evidence, or the unfair tactics Admiral used against them. They said 
there werent any problems with the car before the accident. And they dont accept the 
independent engineers report because their car has a full service history and was 
maintained to a high standard.
Mrs B and Mr S have also said that theyve had an opinion from a specialist garage which 
says the damage to the AC was accident related. And Admiral wouldnt let them take the car 
to a garage of their choice for a second opinion. Because Mrs B and Mr S didnt agree with 
the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen that, Mrs B and Mr S werent happy with the repairs to their car. On 26 September 
2019 they contacted Admiral to say there were warning lights on the dashboard and a 
problem with the seatbelt. Admiral said the seatbelt fault was down to wear and tear, and 
wasnt accident related.
On 2 October 2019 Mr S contacted Admiral to say there was an issue with the cruise control, 
and that he didnt agree that the seatbelt fault was wear and tear. So Admiral arranged for 
an independent engineer to inspect the car. Following this inspection, Admiral still said the 
seatbelt issue wasnt accident related. They told Mrs B and Mr S that theyd need to arrange 
to get the seatbelt replaced. And this should fix all of the warning lights, including the cruise 
control. But if it didnt, Admiral said theyd review this further.
Mrs B and Mr S still werent happy, and in December 2019 Admiral agreed to replace the 
seatbelt because it was a safety issue. They also acknowledged that this shouldve been 
done sooner. Im in agreement that Admiral shouldve acted sooner on this. But Ive also 
seen that Mrs B and Mr S had been provided with a courtesy car while theirs was being 
repaired. Which limited the impact on them. Because of this, I agree that the compensation 
Admiral have already paid is sufficient, and I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
Mrs B and Mr S first raised the issue of a noise coming from the footwell of the car on 5 
November 2019. They said it felt like a mechanism was moving under the footwell when the 
steering wheel was turned. This was identified to be an issue with the AC pump, and the 
repairers said this wasnt accident related due to its location and the lack of impact damage. 
It was determined that this was a mechanical failure due to wear and tear. Mrs B and Mr S were unhappy with this assessment and Admiral arranged for the 
independent engineer to inspect the car. In a report dated 15 January 2020 the independent 
engineer said the auxiliary bolt was missing and the air conditioning pulley has sheared off, 
looking at the mileage of the vehicle this could be down to wear and tear , however it MAY 
have been damaged from the accident from debris from the surrounding area, we would 
advise to strip the vehicle down for further inspection to identify the root cause. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr S and Admiral that took place on 29 January 2020. In this 
call Mr S expressed concern that the repairer would say the AC wasnt accident related so 
they dont look bad. Admiral explained that the engineer is independent of the repairer and 
the repairer would need to provide evidence of any opinion  the engineer wouldnt just 
accept their word.
Mr S also asked if another garage could assess the AC. Admiral said this was possible, but 
there may be a delay caused by this. And Mrs B and Mr S were able to get a second opinion 
if they were unhappy with the independent engineers report. So Mr S agreed that the 
repairers could strip down the AC and provide their opinion, and the evidence to support this 
opinion, to the independent engineer.
After the car had been stripped down and examined, the independent engineer said there 
was nothing to show that the AC pump had been damaged in the accident. As a result of 
this, Admiral told Mrs B and Mr S that they wouldnt be taking any further action.
Im aware that Mrs B and Mr S dont accept the assessment of the independent engineer, as 
the repairer stripped down the car and not someone else. But independent engineers are 
industry experts and have a duty to the courts. And, as confirmed by Admiral in the call of 29 
January 2020, the repairer would have to provide some evidence that the damage wasnt 
caused by the accident for the independent engineer to conclude this. So, for these reasons, 
I think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the independent engineers opinion.
And I havent seen anything to show me that Admiral wouldnt let Mrs B and Mr S take the 
car to another garage or tried to stop them doing so. In the call of 29 January 2020 Mr S was 
given this option, and he agreed to let the repairer to the work. Admiral also told Mrs B and 
Mr S they could still obtain another opinion, even if the independent engineer said the 
damage wasnt accident related. And this is what they did.
Mrs B and Mr S had their car to be inspected by a main dealer, and Ive seen a copy of this 
report dated 12 March 2020. This said there were several faults on the dashboard and that 
repairs to the wiring loom and connectors were carried out. Following this the car was ok 
and the faults were no longer there. However, this report makes no reference to the AC 
pump, nor does it say that any of the faults identified were accident related. 
And Ive noted that Mrs Bs and Mr Ss car has done more than 80,000 miles. And any 
reasonable person would expect a car if this mileage to have parts that start to wear out and 
break down. Even if the car has been well maintained and regularly serviced. So I dont think 
that Admiral need to take any further action.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Ss complaint about EUI 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman