DRN-3713594
The complaint
Miss N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt provide her with enough support to 
address arrears on her credit card after she became ill in 2014.   
What happened
Miss N held various accounts with Lloyds. Unfortunately, Miss N became unwell in 2014 
which led to her needing various treatments and surgeries to address her health difficulties.
Miss N contacted Lloyds to explain her situation. She was concerned about the amounts she 
owed on various accounts. She said her health condition had resulted in financial difficulties 
and she wasnt able to maintain agreed repayments. Lloyds asked Miss N to provide 
evidence of her medical condition.
Having received the information requested and reviewed Miss Ns circumstances, Lloyds 
decided to close Miss Ns accounts, recorded defaults on her credit file and passed them to 
their specialist support team within their collections department. 
Lloyds maintained contact with Miss N in order to understand her ongoing problems. They 
also tried to establish whether a repayment plan could be agreed. But each time, they found 
that Miss Ns circumstances meant she had no surplus income available. So, they werent 
able to agree a sustainable repayment plan.
The outstanding debts were later transferred to a debt recovery agent. Following this, a 
relative of Miss N repaid an amount owed in respect of one of the accounts. An agreement 
was then reached to partially settle the amount owed on another account. 
In April 2021, Miss N complained to Lloyds. She said she felt they hadnt supported her 
when she first told them about her health difficulties. She thought Lloyds should be more 
sympathetic to her circumstances and provide an agreement to clear her remaining debt.
Lloyds agreed to take back the remaining debt from the debt collection agency. This element 
related to Miss Ns Lloyds credit card account. They agreed to place a 30 day hold on the 
account and offered to review her circumstances again. 
Another relative of Miss N offered to partially repay the remaining credit card debt. But Miss 
N says Lloyds wouldnt accept this. She says they persistently asked her to provide evidence 
of her health problems and continued to be unsympathetic and acted inappropriately towards 
her.
Lloyds responded to Miss Ns complaint in a letter dated 8 April 2021. They didnt agree 
theyd done anything wrong. They said that when she first advised them of her situation, 
theyd reviewed her financial circumstances. This had showed she was unable to make any 
repayments. And because of this, they had no option but to pass her accounts to their 
recoveries department.
Lloyds said they may be able to consider writing off the balance she owed, but she would 
need to provide up to date medical evidence of her health situation.
Miss N wasnt happy with Lloyds response. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
She says Lloyds had caused her significant distress and made her feel belittled. She wanted 
them to reach an agreement to clear the debt.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt agree that Lloyds had 
been unsupportive of Miss Ns situation and found no reason to uphold her complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Ns complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of different elements to Miss Ns original complaint. Our investigator 
has explained to Miss N that some of these cant be considered by this service. They also 
clearly explained why that is and Miss N has confirmed her understanding. As a result, my 
decision will only be considering Miss Ns suggestion that Lloyds were unsupportive of her 
situation.
Im also aware of subsequent correspondence sent by Lloyds to Miss N that has prompted a 
further complaint. But as this is a new complaint, and not one addressed in Lloyds response 
in April 2021, I also cant consider that aspect within this decision.
I want to reassure Miss N that Ive carefully considered everything shes said including her 
recollections of what happened together with the information shes provided. While I cant 
imagine the distress and worry that has resulted from her health difficulties, I do appreciate 
this has been an extremely difficult and challenging time for her. Id also like to acknowledge 
that it appears Miss N has at no time ignored her financial situation and obligations. 
The rules and standards that apply where a consumer experiences financial difficulty are 
explained in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. Specifically, the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. This says that lenders should consider consumers 
in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. It then lists examples 
of what this might include. 
By transferring Miss Ns debt to Lloyds specialist support team, this ensured that no further 
interest or charges would be applied to her debt. And I think this was the right thing to do 
here. Having reviewed her financial situation, Lloyds established that Miss N couldnt afford 
to make repayments. And I cant see they insisted Miss N enter a repayment agreement that 
was unstainable or unaffordable for her. Again, this is what I would expect in these 
circumstances.
Because of the situation, Lloyds transferred Miss Ns debts to a debt recovery agent. This is 
common practice as Lloyds wouldnt necessarily be able to provide the tailored support 
required to manage a debt that was no longer active or being serviced. A debt collection 
agent is usually better placed to be able to do that. So, I cant reasonably say Lloyds did 
anything wrong when they did that either.
Having reached an agreement to clear two of the outstanding debts, this left the remaining 
credit card element. Following Miss Ns complaint, Lloyds took this back from the debt 
recovery agent. They told Miss N they would consider writing off what she owed and asked 
Miss N to provide up to date medical evidence before they made that decision. The last 
evidence they received from her dated back some years. And while I know Miss N isnt 
happy with Lloyds request, I dont think it was unreasonable here. A lender is under no 
obligation to write off debt. But given the circumstances, I can understand why Lloyds might 
consider this in order to resolve matters.While I realise Miss N will be disappointed, I havent found anything to support Miss Ns 
claim that Lloyds acted in an unreasonable or unsupportive way. They appear to have met 
the FCAs requirements in CONC and have also agreed to consider writing off the remaining 
debt. So, I dont think theres anything more I would expect of them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman