DRN-4101354
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 7 November 2015, Miss B applied for a credit card account with Barclaycard. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £1,200. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss B complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Miss Bs complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it used, among other things, a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending, as well as the 
information it had on how Miss B was managing her account. Its possible that Barclaycard 
failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss B with credit. But even if thats true, I 
dont think better enquiries would have caused Barclaycard to think the initial credit limit was 
unaffordable. 
I say this because at the point that she applied for the credit card Miss B told Barclaycard 
that whilst she had an income of £30,000 a year. The initial credit limit was modest 
compared to the disclosed income, and the maximum monthly payments for that credit 
were also relatively modest. And there was nothing from the credit reference agency that 
made the credit automatically unreasonable. In saying that Barclaycard told us they had 
noted some historic missed payments on one of Miss Bs accounts. For that reason, they 
limited the initial credit limit to £1,200. The credit limit was never increased. So, I have 
seen insufficient evidence that would have put Barclaycard off supplying the credit. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Barclaycard to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Barclaycard 
could see of her management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted 
differently than it did. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman