DRN-2309627
The complaint
N, a small business, complains that the card it took out with American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) came with travel insurance which it felt wasnt suitable and wasnt 
properly advertised. Mr W brought this complaint on behalf of N.
What happened
Mr W works for N. He said that hed taken out an AmEx card that came with travel 
insurance, on behalf of N. He said one of the reasons he took this card was that it was 
advertised as follows  
All card holders are covered for fully comprehensive travel insurance, including 
partners and children up until the age of 25. 
But Mr W said that hed found out since that it wasnt fully comprehensive travel insurance. 
He complained to AmEx that the card wouldnt provide cover for travel disruption if that travel 
hadnt been booked on the card. Mr W wanted cardholders to be covered for personal travel, 
which they wouldnt book on Ns card.
Mr W said N had paid a sizeable annual fee to hold the card, and he wanted AmEx to pay 
that back, because he thought the card had been mis-sold. He said that AmEx had since 
changed the language of its promotion, and now only says the card includes Travel accident 
and travel inconvenience insurance. So he thought AmEx knew it was misleading. 
AmEx didnt agree. It noted that Mr W said hed been told he and his partner would get 
medical cover, and so would a named director, and their partner. AmEx said that was right, 
they would. It referred to this part of the terms -
WHO IS COVERED 
The Cardmember and their Family and Supplementary Cardmembers are covered. 
Age Limit for Medical Assistance and Expenses: The Cardmember and their Family 
and Supplementary Cardmembers must be under 80 throughout the Trip to receive 
Medical Assistance and Expenses benefits. 
AmEx said that, as it understood it, Mr W was concerned because he had discovered that 
some of the insurance benefits on his card were dependent upon use of the card. But AmEx 
said that Mr W had been provided with the insurance terms and conditions via email, before 
Ns successful application. AmEx didnt uphold the complaint. Although it was happy to 
cancel Ns card, it wouldnt refund the fee charged for the time N had held the card. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the policy terms and 
conditions were relatively clear. And the exclusion for claims where travel tickets werent 
purchased on the card and purchases which were not made on the card account was 
sufficiently highlighted, so Mr W wouldve been aware of this. The summary provided by the 
advisor was only a summary, she would still expect Mr W to read the terms. 
Our investigator said there was no additional charge for the travel insurance element of the 
card, and she didnt think AmEx had to pay Mr W back what hed paid to hold the card. 
Mr W said that he very definitely would not have taken out the card if hed only seen AmExs 
revised advertising for it. And he said that hed been given differing advice from AmEx about 
whether travel insurance would be provided if the vendor didnt accept the card, rather than 
the cardholder choosing not to use it. he said hed like to know what the answer to that was. 
And Mr W said that he wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr W has said that he wouldnt have taken out the card if hed seen the revised advertising 
that AmEx now uses. I think AmEx is entitled to change how it describes its card products, 
and indeed, from looking at its current website wording, it appears to have changed this 
again now. I dont think that the change Mr W points to implies that AmEx felt the previous 
wording was misleading, or that I can infer just from this that the product was mis-sold. 
Mr W has also objected to AmEx describing the travel insurance it provided as 
comprehensive. But I dont think it would be reasonable to assume, from this, that any and 
every eventuality will be covered. And I dont think that the policy is so narrow, or heavily 
caveated, that its unreasonable for AmEx to have summed it up in this way. This wording 
was, as our investigator has also stressed, only ever a very brief summary of what was 
being offered.
Like our investigator, I think its up to Mr W, acting on behalf of N, to consider the terms of 
the policy, and decide if they meet Ns needs. And I understand that AmEx did supply Mr W 
with a copy of the relevant terms, and prompted him to read these, before entering into this 
agreement on behalf of N. 
Because I think that what AmEx said was only ever a summary of the cover provided, and 
because Mr W was given the opportunity to check if the cover provided was suitable for N 
before N entered into this contract, I dont think that this card was mis-sold to N. And, for that 
reason, I dont think that AmEx has to refund to N now the fees it charged for the time N held 
the card. 
Mr W has also asked if we could tell him exactly how AmExs insurance would work, if he 
bought travel tickets from a business that didnt accept AmEx. I can see why Mr W is 
interested in this, but I think as hes cancelled Ns policy, this question doesnt really arise 
out of his complaint. So I dont think its appropriate for me to consider this here.
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think Ns complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman