DRN-3092452
The complaint
Mr K complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly settled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to LV includes its agents.
What happened
Mr K holds a motor insurance policy with LV.
Mr K complained to LV because he found out it had settled a claim made by a third party on 
his policy in 2019. Mr K said he wasnt involved in the alleged incident, didnt know anything 
about the claim and doesnt think LV acted fairly when settling this claim on his policy. He 
says LV never investigated the alleged incident properly so it cant prove that he was 
involved.
LV said it wrote to Mr K after it received the claim from the third-partys insurer. It said it tried 
to contact him via SMS too and received no response. It said it told Mr K that it would need 
to settle the claim if it didnt hear from him. It didnt hear from him, so it settled the claim and 
paid the third-party insurer.
Mr K remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it and didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought LV had settled the claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy.
Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has come to me to issue an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr K was hoping 
for. Ill explain my reasoning.
LV has a duty to look into any claim made against Mr Ks policy, whether thats a claim made 
by him, or a claim made by a third party. Here, Ive seen the third-party insurers claim 
alleging Mr K was responsible for damaging its insureds vehicle in a car park.
LV has a duty to investigate this claim. In Mr Ks policy, LV says it can take over and 
conduct the defence and settlement of any claim.... This is a common term in most, if not all 
motor insurance policies, and its a term wed consider fair. Without this term, insurers would 
have to act on their insureds instructions and who or who wasnt at fault can be an emotive 
subject. Without this term its likely much more insurance claims would end up in court, 
costing insurers, and ultimately policyholders more money. But, naturally, this term means 
insurers may make decisions that their insured dont agree with.
While this term allows insurers to make the final decision on any claim, they still need to act 
fairly. Any decision they make needs to be fairly based on the available evidence.
I appreciate here that Mr K says theres no evidence he was involved in the alleged incident. 
But I disagree. The allegation along with Mr Ks details is, in itself, evidence. Alone, that 
allegation isnt the strongest evidence, but it is evidence nonetheless.
I can see that once LV received the allegation it wrote to Mr K for his version of events. This 
is what wed expect it to do. I can see LV chased this information and let Mr K know that 
without any contact from him it would need to settle the claim. And thats what it did. I 
appreciate Mr K said he didnt receive any contact from LV. But Im satisfied LV sent 
sufficient letters and notifications to Mr K.
To be clear, Im not saying that Mr K was involved in this incident  thats not a finding Im 
able nor need to make. But Im satisfied LV acted reasonably by settling the claim when it 
did. It asked Mr K for his version of events but received nothing. So, on that basis, although 
an allegation alone isnt the strongest evidence for settling a claim, it was the strongest 
available evidence on this claim as LV received nothing to counter that allegation from Mr K 
before it settled the claim.
Its not reasonable that LV defend any claim without hearing anything from its insured. So, 
as it didnt hear from Mr K, Im satisfied it acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms 
by paying this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman