DRN-2611102
The complaint
Mrs S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs S took out PPI at the same time as she applied for a mortgage, she recalls the
sale took place in a branch meeting. The policy gave her accident, sickness and
unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying Santander hadnt shown that it made it clear the
PPI was optional, or that it gave Mrs S the opportunity to confirm she wanted to takeout PPI.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an
extract follows and forms part of this final decision) to give both parties a chance to
comment. I asked for their responses by 18 February 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
Im currently not planning to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
As the adjudicator set out, Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs S
had to agree to buy it. Mrs S says she is unable to recall the meeting or the details, and the
bank no longer has all the paperwork from the sale. But neither of these facts are
unreasonable or surprising given how long ago the sale was.
Santander has told us its sales process at the time required its adviser to explain the
policy, to provide a policy quote and to give the customer a policy leaflet. Then the 
customer completed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate if they 
wanted to apply for PPI. The bank has provided a sample of the form, from the nearest 
available date, that Mrs S is likely to have completed. There is nothing on this form that I 
think could reasonably have led her to believe it was mandatory.
Santander has also provided a copy of the PPI welcome letter it sent Mrs S on 15 May 
2007. This opens Thank you for making a positive choice. which suggests to me that the 
PPI was presented to Mrs S as optional, and that she had chosen to apply for the cover.
On balance, I think its most likely Santander made it clear that PPI was optional and Mrs S
agreed to buy it. I can understand she might not recall this given how long ago the sale 
was.
the other aspects of the sale
Ive also reviewed the other aspects of the sale to make sure Mrs S hasnt lost
out because of any other problems. I dont currently think she has and Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to take reasonable steps to check the
policy was suitable for her. And it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on what Ive
seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs S told us she was entitled to at least six months
sick pay and the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each successful accident or
sickness claim. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would have
allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial
security at an already difficult time.
Mrs S says she had savings at the time of the sale held in a number of different bank and
building society accounts, but she cant recall the value. She also had an insurance/savings
plan that matured in 2008 and an ISA. But without knowing more about her savings I cant
fairly conclude this meant she didnt have a need for the PPI. I say this as I dont know the
value of her savings, nor how easy they were to access - if withdrawal notice was required 
or if there were early redemption penalties. And the PPI would have allowed Mrs S to use 
her savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working or to keep them intact for her 
future needs.
Mrs Ss borrowing was secured against her home. Given the consequences of not being
able to make her mortgage repayments, I think the cover would have been useful for Mrs S 
if was off work sick or lost her job. Also, I note she called to increase her cover under this
policy in September 2008. This suggests to me she wanted the cover and saw a need for it.
And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it if her situation changed 
or if she no longer wanted it.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But it seems Mrs S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. I dont know when the cost was first made clear but the policy 
was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered, and apparently affordable. I cant see Mrs S 
was affected by any of the other main exclusions or limitations. So overall I think it unlikely 
Mrs S wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. I think its 
likely she would still have taken out the policy.
It followed I didnt think Santander had mis-sold the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the
available evidence and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Neither party provided any further information or comments in response to my provisional 
decision so it follows I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out there.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman