DRN-3855223
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limited because it declined her claim and added an 
exclusion to her policy. 
What happened
Mrs T arranged to switch insurers to Aviva in August 2020. As part of the switch, she was 
asked questions about her medical history. Mrs T said she answered everything to the best 
of her knowledge, however, when she came to make a claim in July 2021 it was declined 
because Aviva said shed not answered the questions accurately. Aviva also applied an 
exclusion to her policy for anything related to osteoarthritis of both hips. 
Mrs T needed an operation for a hip replacement; however, Aviva declined the claim 
because Mrs T had early onset arthritis. Aviva said when it asked Mrs T whether shed 
suffered symptoms 12 months prior to taking the policy, she said no when she shouldve 
said yes. Aviva said Mrs T told it that shed suffered with symptoms for around one year 
meaning her symptoms wouldve outdated the start of Avivas policy. Aviva also highlighted 
that Mrs T had been diagnosed with early onset arthritis following an X-ray in 2018.
Our investigator said Aviva had treated Mrs T unfairly by declining her claim and adding the 
medical exclusion to her policy. He highlighted Mrs T was unsure of the exact date her 
symptoms began and that shed referred to lockdown dates as chronological waypoints. He 
said Aviva didnt effectively do enough to hone in on when her symptoms began exactly and 
that it misinterpreted which lockdown shed referred to. He said, on that basis, Aviva had 
unfairly applied CIDRA and that it should reassess her claim. He also said Mrs Ts X-ray was 
in 2018 and that he was satisfied shed remained symptom free in the 12 months prior to 
taking the policy out and so there was nothing for her to declare. 
Aviva disagreed. It reiterated its arguments and said the declinature and the exclusion still 
stands because it believes Mrs T was experiencing symptoms in the 12 months before she 
took the policy. And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for many of the reasons already explained by our 
investigator. Aviva hasnt done enough to persuade me Mrs T was suffering with symptoms 
12 months before she took the policy out. I therefore agree with our investigator that it has 
both declined her claim and added the exclusion unfairly. Ill explain why. 
To be clear, the question asked by Aviva in August 2020 was;
Have you or any person to be covered by this policy experienced symptoms, or had any 
consultations, tests or treatment in the past 12- months, or do you currently have 
appointments planned with a GP, specialist or a hospital in the future
Mrs T answered no to the question and Ive not seen any persuasive medical evidence that 
successfully challenges the answer she gave. Its not in dispute Mrs T had an X-ray in 2018 
and that early onset arthritis was given. I know this because Mrs T shared this information. 
Aviva also appear to accept that. But because this was in 2018 Avivas questioning wont 
identify this. And so, I dont think Mrs T answered this question inaccurately. 
But its Mrs Ts claim call she made in July 2021 thats caused controversy here, because 
when asked by Aviva about when her symptoms for her hip problems began, she eventually 
concedes shed been experiencing symptoms for around a year. And if that were the case, 
then it would mean shed suffered possibly with symptoms for a few weeks prior to the call 
where she answered no to the earlier question about previous symptoms experienced. 
Having listened to the claims call between Mrs T and Aviva, I think its clear she struggled to 
remember the exact dates to the questions she was asked. I say that because Mrs T said so 
during the conversation. I also note she explained her symptoms had progressed since 
lockdown and that Aviva took this to mean since March 2020  according to its claims notes. 
However, that wasnt the case, according to Mrs T and Im persuaded by her testimony. I 
should highlight there were three official lockdowns in the UK. The first being March 2020 
and the second being January 2021. When Mrs T called six months later in July 2021, she 
subsequently explained she was referring to the second lockdown in January as the point 
her symptoms were progressing and not the first, which Aviva had assumed. 
I thought this an important point to highlight because I think it demonstrates Avivas 
carelessness to hone the relevant dates before taking the decision to decline her claim and 
add the policy exclusion. Further, I note Aviva didnt request a copy of Mrs Ts medical 
records, or indeed point her to any of the medical evidence she might need to help it verify 
her claim, which I thought wouldve been helpful given its obligation under the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Source Book (ICOBS). This says insurers must give reasonable and 
fair guidance to its customers when attempting to make a claim. 
It's clear from listening to that call Mrs T was unable to remember the exact details 
surrounding her hip problems, and considering the date she gave for her symptoms narrowly 
made her claim declinable, I think Aviva shouldve done more than it did to help her evidence 
her claim by, at the very least, telling her what medical evidence she should source to help 
support her claim. I note Mrs T said shed not suffered with symptoms, or sought medical 
advice about her hip problems in the 12 months before taking her policy and Ive not seen 
any medical evidence that suggests she has and so Im persuaded Aviva has treated her 
unfairly by declining her claim and adding the medical exclusion. Therefore, Aviva must 
reconsider her claim in line with the remaining policy terms and remove the exclusion 
because Im satisfied its applied the terms of CIDRA unfairly in the circumstances.   
My final decision
m upholding Mrs Ts complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Aviva Insurance Limited 
should now reconsider the claim fairly and remove the medical exclusion applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman