DRN-3216982
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly handled a claim they made 
under their home emergency policy.
Any reference to AWP includes its agents or representatives unless specified.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs W held a home emergency policy with AWP.
They discovered the lock mechanism on their French doors had failed and contacted 
AWP to make a claim.
AWP sent a locksmith to the address who assessed the damage and provided a 
quote for repairs. AWP initially told Mr and Mrs W the claim was declined as the 
damage was caused by wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with AWPs communication around the claim, and they 
said the claim decision was wrong.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and outlined why she was satisfied AWP 
had fairly declined the claim as the damage didnt meet the definition of an 
emergency under the policy. But she said the communication around the claim was 
lacking, with Mr and Mrs W given confusing messages about the reason for the 
decline. So, she directed AWP to pay £100 in compensation.
All parties agreed to the assessment. However, following this Mr and Mrs W have told this 
Service they havent heard anything further from AWP. Despite numerous chasers we also 
havent heard back from AWP. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. And for the same reasons given by our 
investigator.
Our investigator has gone into detail about the reasons the damage in this case does 
not meet the definition of an emergency. Given all parties agree on this point, I wont 
go over this in any detail. But I am satisfied AWP declined the claim fairly in line with 
its policy terms.
AWP hasnt disputed that its communication around the claim was lacking in places. 
Nor that this had an impact of frustration and disappointment for Mr and Mrs W. 
Taking into account the impact of these mistakes, Im satisfied £100 in compensation 
would be a fair resolution to this matter. And I direct AWP to pay this.
My final decision
AWP P&C SA must pay Mr and Mrs W £100 in compensation for the way it has handled this 
claim.
AWP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr and Mrs W accept 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman