DRN-2006232
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) declined his 
critical illness claim and cancelled his policy from the outset. Mr B is represented in this 
complaint by his wife, but to avoid confusion Ill refer only to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B took out a 10 year Life and Critical illness policy with Aegon on 19 May 2019. The sum 
assured was £10,000 and the policy was taken out online. 
Mr B went to see his GP on 20 May 2019 for a pre-arranged epilepsy medication review. 
While there, he told his GP about a swollen gland on his neck. His GP was concerned about 
the lump and arranged a fast track referral for further tests. 
 
Mr B was, unfortunately, diagnosed with tongue cancer in mid June 2019. He submitted a 
claim to Aegon, which was turned down. Aegon said Mr B answered the following question 
incorrectly:
In the last 5 years have you had any of these?
Raised blood pressure, cholesterol, or chest pain; Diabetes or raised blood sugar; 
Depression, anxiety, stress, eating disorder or any other mental health issue; Anaemia, 
blood clot or anything else affecting your blood; A growth, lump or cyst.
Aegon said Mr Bs medical records show that during his consultation with his GP on 20 May 
2019, Mr B mentioned a lump on his neck that he thought was a gland. It said the GP noted 
this as an Enlarging level II neck lump. Aegon said, in addition, Mr Bs consultant confirmed 
a three week history of an enlarging neck lump when he saw Mr B on 28 May 2019. So, 
given this information, Aegon said it would have expected Mr B to disclose the lump in 
response to the above question. 
Aegon also said it sent a copy of Mr Bs application to Mr B for him to check that the 
information disclosed was correct. It said the letter sent with the application contained 
several warnings about the importance of disclosing relevant information. Aegon said Mr B 
signed this declaration to say his application form answers were correct. 
Aegon said it appreciates Mr Bs actions might not have been deliberate and it understood 
he wasnt initially aware of the seriousness of his situation. But it said if it had known about 
the lump on his neck, its underwriters wouldnt have offered terms on this policy. So the 
policy would never have been in force for Mr B to make a claim now. Aegon said it cancelled 
the policy and refunded Mr Bs premiums. 
Mr B was unhappy his claim had been declined and complained to Aegon. Aegon didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. It reiterated what it said when it turned down Mr Bs claim. It said 
Mr Bs medical records indicate Mr Bs symptoms were present before he started his policy. 
And it said if it had known about these symptoms, it wouldnt have agreed to start the life and 
critical illness policy on that date. 
Mr B complained to this service. He said his claim had been turned down because the policy 
was taken out too close to his diagnosis. He said when he visited his GP on 20 May 2019 it 
was for a medication review and the swollen gland on his neck was only mentioned in 
passing.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said he thinks Mr B should have 
answered yes to the application question about whether hes had a growth, cyst or lump in 
the last five years. He acknowledged that Mr B didnt see what he thought was swollen 
glands as anything to worry about. But he said a swollen gland would have felt like a tender, 
painful lump and Mr Bs medical records suggest he was aware of it at the time he applied 
for the policy. And Mr B was concerned enough about it that he mentioned it to his GP the 
following day during a routine appointment. 
Our investigator said he has seen Aegons underwriting criteria and can see that if Aegon 
knew about the swollen gland it wouldve postponed the application until the lump had fully 
gone. And as this led to a diagnosis of cancer, this wouldn't have happened. As Aegon 
wouldnt have offered cover at the point of application, Aegon is allowed to void the policy 
and decline the claim.
Mr B did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Aegon acted fairly when it said Mr B made a misrepresentation, when it 
classified the misrepresentation as careless and when it cancelled Mr Bs life and critical 
illness cover from the outset and refunded the premiums paid by Mr B. 
I first of all looked at the relevant question asked by Aegon, to see whether I think it was 
worded clearly enough for Mr B to know what information he was being asked to provide. 
And Im satisfied it was clearly worded. Ive also considered whether a swollen gland 
would need to be disclosed in response to this question. And Im satisfied that a swollen 
gland would present as a noticeable lump  and indeed Mr Bs GP referred to it as a 
lump  so I think a swollen gland would fall into the category of growths, lumps or cysts. 
Having looked at Mr Bs medical records, Im satisfied that a misrepresentation was 
made. Ill explain why. 
When Mr B visited his GP on 20 May 2019 he disclosed the swollen gland. All parties appear 
to accept that Mr B did not arrange to see his GP in order to discuss the swollen gland  the 
appointment was arranged some weeks before for an epilepsy medication review. While he was there, Mr B mentioned the swollen gland and the medical records say it had been 
swollen for around 4 weeks at that point. What this means is that when Mr B completed the 
policy application on the night before the GP appointment, hed had a swollen gland for 
around 4 weeks. And this means he should have disclosed it on the application form. 
Mr B has placed a good deal of emphasis on the fact that he didnt know the swollen gland 
was serious when he applied for the policy. This might well be the case. But the issue here is 
not whether Mr B knew about the seriousness of the swollen gland, it is simply whether Mr B 
should have disclosed it. The relevant question wasnt asking Mr B to assess the 
seriousness of any lumps before disclosing them. It was simply asking him to disclose any 
and all lumps and he should have done that.   
Mr B also signed and returned a declaration  confirming that all of the information provided 
by him in the application form was correct  to Aegon on 24 May 2019. Aegon sent a 
covering letter with the declaration that said: 
you must tell us in writing if there have been any changes in your circumstances between 
the date of your application and the date of this letter. Examples of changes are. your 
health, for example if you suffer symptoms for which youve already seen or may need to 
see a doctor, or if you undergo any form of medical investigation
The date of the covering letter was 20 May 2019. By then, Mr B was aware of his GPs 
concerns about the lump on his neck and he was aware that his GP had completed a fast 
track referral for further tests. This means that Mr B should have let Aegon know that he was 
now undergoing a medical investigation, and he didnt do that. 
Having seen the underwriting criteria provided by Aegon, Im satisfied that if Aegon had 
known about the swollen gland it would have postponed offering life and critical illness cover 
until Mr B was completely recovered. And as the swollen gland has, unfortunately, led to a 
diagnosis of cancer, Aegon would never have offered this policy to Mr B. This means the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one, as Aegon would have taken a different course of 
action if it had all the relevant medical information. 
Aegon classified Mr Bs misrepresentation as careless, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. Where there is a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA allows Aegon to take 
whatever action it would have taken at the time if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. 
But as Aegon would never have offered this policy to Mr B, Im satisfied it acted fairly when it 
declined Mr Bs claim, cancelled his policy from the outset and refunded his premiums. 
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, and I sympathise with the 
situation he finds himself in, but I could only ask Aegon to act differently if I thought it had 
acted unfairly, and I dont think it has.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman