DRN-2178866
The complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) closed her bank account without 
explanation.
What happened
Miss W says that Lloyds closed her bank account without any reason, and she has not 
received any formal written notice apart from a text message. Miss W says that Lloyds have 
also caused her considerable inconvenience as she was made to visit a local branch to 
access her bank account because a block had been placed on her account. She also says 
that Lloyds are in breach of data protection regulations as they also discussed her bank 
account held with another bank within the Lloyds banking group. Miss W is looking for Lloyds 
to pay her compensation for the inconvenience and stress caused as a result.
Lloyds say that a letter was sent to Miss W giving notice that her bank account was to be 
closed in line with its terms and conditions and this was also discussed in a phone call 
following a text message being sent. Lloyds says because a block was placed on her bank  
account pending its closure this meant Miss W  had to visit a branch to access her bank 
account .While she had to  wait for available staff given the circumstances,  they dont feel 
they have done anything wrong here. Lloyds also say that they arent in breach of data 
protection rules as the bank in question is part of their group of companies and they are 
allowed to share relevant customer information between them. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint.  The 
investigator said Lloyds gave the appropriate notice to close the bank account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the bank account. The investigator says that while it may have been 
inconvenient for Miss W to have to visit a branch and wait to access her bank account this 
was unavoidable, and Lloyds couldnt be held to blame for this. The investigator also 
concluded that Lloyds hadnt breached any data protection regulations when sharing 
information between Miss Ws  two banks as these are part of the same banking group and 
they are able to share relevant information. The investigator didnt feel that a compensation 
payment was justified in the circumstances.
Miss W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have looked at whether Lloyds acted correctly when closing 
Miss Ws bank account and if they provided poor customer service following their decision. I 
have also considered Miss Ws concern that Lloyds breached data protection regulations 
when sharing information with a connected banking group company. 
I can understand that Miss W would find it frustrating and inconvenient to be informed her 
bank account would be closed. What happened here is Lloyds wrote to Miss W in January 
2020 informing her of their decision to close her bank account. While Miss C says she didnt 
receive this notification in writing, I have been provided with a copy of the letter addressed to 
her, along with a screen shot from Lloyds identifying the letter being sent, and on balance, I 
am satisfied the letter was sent. In any event Miss W says that she spoke to Lloyds at that 
time after receiving a text message explaining the account would be closed, so there is no 
dispute that Miss W wasnt aware that this was going to happen. Her main issue here is that 
Lloyds havent given any reason why they have decided to close her account and she feels 
this is because of a separate issue on a bank account she holds elsewhere within the Lloyds 
group. 
Miss W feels Lloyds should explain why, in their words she no longer fits within their risk 
appetite. I have considered this point and while Miss W may not agree, Lloyds under its 
account terms and conditions section L .25 states that :
This agreement continues until you or we cancel or end it. The table below shows how this 
agreement (or any account, benefits package or service) can be ended. If we end it, we will 
act in a manner we think is reasonable in the circumstances and will try to reduce the 
inconvenience to you.
You Any reason. None (we may ask you to confirm in writing).
Us If we reasonably think that: Any other reason. Two months (in writing).
What this is saying is Lloyds can close a bank account for any reason provided they give two 
months-notice and from the information provided to me I am satisfied this is what happened 
here. I say this because I have seen a copy of the account closure letter and details of the 
text issued in January 2020 and the bank account was finally closed in March 2020.  Its 
worth mentioning, in the same way Miss W can close her bank account at any time.  Its not 
for me to tell Lloyds to explain the reason for closing Miss Ws  bank account, as that is a 
commercial decision made by them. 
As far as the inconvenience Miss W experienced when visiting her local branch, while I can 
see that having to wait for the account block to be investigated and removed would be 
frustrating, it was necessary to allow the withdrawal to be made. I cant see that Lloyds could 
have done anything more here given the matter needed to be investigated following the 
notice to close her bank account had resulted in the account being blocked, I am satisfied 
that wasnt an unreasonable action for them to take in the circumstances. 
Miss W says that Lloyds have breached data protection regulations when speaking about 
her Lloyds bank account with an advisor from another part of the banking group. I have 
considered this point made by Miss W but under the terms and conditions of her bank 
account Lloyds are able to share information with businesses within its group of companies -  
this is what happened here.   
Miss W suggests that the decision to close the account was made regarding issues relating 
to a bank account she has with another bank within Lloyds group of companies, but I have seen no evidence to support this. Lloyds also reviewed the decision, but Miss W says that 
this only took six hours rather than the 48 hours it suggested, but again I cant see that is 
evidence that Lloyds have not considered the complaint other than dealing with the matter 
promptly which is what I would expect to see in the circumstances here. 
While Miss W will be disappointed with my decision it follows that I wont be asking anymore 
of Lloyds here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman