DRN-3192905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their claim under their legal expenses cover was declined by 
Amtrust Europe Limited.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr Ms mother sadly died. And Mr and Mrs M discovered, as they that Mr M 
was not a beneficiary under the will. Mr M thought he was covered for disputes about wills 
under his legal expenses policy which was part of his home insurance. He submitted a claim.
The policy, however, said that legal cover was for a probate dispute involving: the will of your 
parents, grandparents, children, step-children or adopted children where you are contesting 
a will as a named beneficiary, or as a member of a class of beneficiaries with an immediate 
interest.
His claim was passed to a firm of solicitors for a legal assessment and to confirm the 
prospects of success. Ill call that firm S. S said that they required further information to help 
them compile their legal assessment. The further information they needed was a copy of 
either the previous will or the most recent will which was made by Mr Ms late mother. It was 
explained that this was needed in order to confirm that the policy terms were met to be able 
to contest the will as a named beneficiary or a member of a class of beneficiaries with an 
immediate interest.
After S saw a redacted copy of Mr Ms late mothers will which did not name Mr M as a 
beneficiary it said it did not think Mr M was covered under the legal expenses policy. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and complained. As his home insurance policy was with another 
insurer, he complained to that insurer too. That insurer told him that he wasnt covered 
because the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success rather than because he 
wasnt a named beneficiary. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed that the policy did 
cover probate disputes but noted that these were only when the insured was a named 
beneficiary or a member of a class of beneficiaries with an immediate interest in the will. In 
this case, she said as there wasnt any evidence to show Mr M was a beneficiary under the 
will he wasnt covered for any dispute about the will. She appreciated that Mr M had been 
given different reasons why his claim wasnt covered but this didnt change her mind. She 
acknowledged that Mr M felt the policy was unfair, but she thought the insurer was entitled to 
provide cover for incidents that it would like to cover.
Mr and Mrs M wanted an ombudsmans decision. Mr M explained how difficult things had 
been for his family over the last few years. He said he wasnt aware that he needed to be a 
named beneficiary until he was told by S. He said that needing to be a named beneficiary 
contradicts the product information document which states that there is insurance for ANY 
dispute relating to the will of your parents, grandparents, children, step-children or adopted 
children. Mr M said when he first heard a rumour that his mother was thinking of changing 
her will he checked his policy and it said he was covered for any dispute and so he 
continued to renew his policy annually even though he could have got a better price 
elsewhere. He said he was misled. If his claim wasnt covered it should be clearly stated in 
the product information document. He said he had a better than 60% chance of winning the 
case.
My first provisional decision 
I set out my thinking in a provisional decision on 5 October 2020. In it I said:
I am very sorry to hear about the family circumstances surrounding this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs M have strong feelings about what has happened and feel very hurt 
and let down.
Having looked at the policy carefully I also dont think Mr and Mrs M are covered. The policy 
does cover probate disputes. But it is clear that cover in probate disputes is only for 
someone who is a named beneficiary or a member of a class of beneficiaries with an 
immediate interest. The part of the redacted will I have seen specifically says Mr M isnt a 
beneficiary. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs M is a beneficiary. So, they are not 
covered by the policy.
Mr M thinks this is unfair. I agree with the investigator that an insurer is entitled to offer 
insurance to cover some claims and not all claims. So, I dont agree that not covering Mr and 
Mrs Ms situation is in itself unfair.
Mr M seems to have accepted that under the terms of the policy he isnt covered but feels he 
was misled as the product information document says that a probate claim: For any 
disputes relating to the will of your parents, grandparents, children, step-children or adopted 
is covered. And the list of what isnt insured doesnt mention that he needed to be a 
beneficiary under the will.
I think a reasonable person in Mr Ms position would have thought after reading the product 
information document that he was covered for a dispute about his mothers will whether or 
not he was named as a beneficiary. I think by saying any disputes the information 
document was inaccurate and misleading. It could easily after all have said many disputes 
and this would have made the policy holder aware that they would need to look at the policy 
wording itself to see if they were covered. 
So, given I think the product information document was inaccurate and misleading I need to 
consider what Amtrust needs to do next. I have thought about whether it should provide 
cover to Mr and Mrs M for their probate dispute. I dont think this would be the right thing to 
do. If the product information document had been accurate, I think Mr and Mrs M would have 
realised that the policy didnt cover them. They may have tried to get cover elsewhere but I 
dont think this would have been possible as the very fact that they were looking for cover for 
this type of event was because they knew they had a potential problem here. That means 
even if theyd been able to find alternative cover, I think any claim they then made would 
likely have been turned down as they knew that the circumstances leading to a claim already 
existed. On that basis theyd never have had cover for this issue so it wouldnt be fair to say 
Amtrust cant rely on the policy term it has.
But I think the inaccurate and misleading product information document added to 
Mr and Mrs Ms distress at what was already a very difficult time. And I think they should be 
compensated for this. Mr M has described the last five years as the saddest and most 
stressful time of his life. I cant ask Amtrust to compensate them for that but I can tell it to 
compensate for the additional distress it caused and I can bear in mind that the distress 
caused to them is likely to have been greater given the difficult situation they were already 
in. Taking all this into account I think it would be fair for Amtrust to pay £500 to them for the 
distress it caused.
I note Mr Ms comments about him continuing with his home insurance in the belief that he 
was covered for any probate dispute. And that he could have got a cheaper deal if he had 
shopped around. I appreciate that Mr M feels this way now, but I am not sure that what he 
has said is quite right. When he first came to this service, he said that he checked his policy 
after his mothers death. In any event, as he didnt shop around at the time it would be 
difficult to assess how much more he paid. And overall, I think the compensation I have 
awarded for the distress caused to Mr and Mrs M is the fairest way of looking at this 
complaint.
Finally, it is unfortunate that the insurer of the home policy referred to the chances of 
success when giving its final response letter. I appreciate this has confused things. But we 
only need to consider a claims prospect of success if it is covered and as Ive already said I 
dont think Mr and Mrs Ms claim is covered. In addition, Amtrust isnt responsible for what 
the home insurer said to him.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M made further comments, in summary these were:
They had saved thousands of pounds by shopping around for insurance in the past.
They could have got alternative suitable insurance if they had known their policy had 
exclusions in particular cases of will dispute.
They didnt think that insurers act on family rumour and so they thought they could 
have got insurance as there was no proof that Mr Ms mother intended to change her 
will  they were only told by one source who rarely visited Mr Ms mother.
They took no notice of the warning about the will change because Mr Ms mother had 
disabilities which meant she could not see a telephone directory to choose a solicitor 
and she had no way of getting to a solicitor as she was effectively housebound.
They had wasted many months with their dealings with the failed insurance claim 
when they could have been making progress with their own solicitor. 
Their claim was only turned down once it was passed to the solicitor. They said if it 
took a solicitor to understand the policy how was an untrained member of the public 
expected to work out whether the policy was right for them in the first place?Amtrust had no further comments.
My second provisional decision
As Mr and Mrs M had raised some new points in response to my first provisional decision, I 
made a second provisional decision to give both parties a chance to respond. In my second 
provisional decision I said:
When Mr and Mrs M first brought this complaint to this service they provided what they 
described as a potted history of the events. The potted history is quite detailed. The first 
time it mentions that Mr and Mrs M consulted their insurance policy was after Mr Ms mother 
had died. 
Mr M later told us that following hearing a family rumour that his mother was thinking of 
changing her will in December 2016 he checked his insurance product information document 
and it showed he was insured for any dispute. He said that he continued to renew the policy 
annually every May even though he could have got a better price by shopping around on 
insurance comparison sites.
Mr and Mrs M have now said that they dont think the knowledge they had prior to Mr Ms 
mothers death would have prevented them from getting alternative cover because insurers 
dont act on rumour.
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance is due for renewal in May each year. Mr and Mrs M have told us 
they have successfully shopped around for insurance in the past and they dont think what 
they knew about Mrs Ms mothers intentions would have prevented them getting insurance. 
Given this it isnt clear why they didnt shop around each time the renewal came up.
I think it is most likely they didnt shop around because they were  until 2021  happy with 
the price they were offered.
I have thought about when Mr and Mrs M first looked at their insurance policy papers. I think 
it was after Mr Ms mothers death. I say this because this fits best with the information Mr M 
initially supplied when he came to us. It also seems to me unlikely that Mr and Mrs M would 
have been thinking about potentially making a claim for years and never checked the policy 
itself or phoned the legal helpline to get confirmation they would be covered. 
Given I dont think Mr and Mrs M checked their policy papers until after Mr Ms mothers 
death I think the compensation set out in my provisional decision remains fair. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs M feel they wasted months, but they were told very soon after they made the 
claim about the need to have been a beneficiary. 
For completeness Ive thought about what award I would have made if I thought that Mr and 
Mrs M had checked their product information document after they say they first heard the 
warning about the will change or when the policy was being renewed. And I have concluded 
that it wouldnt make a difference to my award. Ill explain why.
The first reason is that I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have looked for another policy 
which would have covered them even if they had known they werent covered under the 
Amtrust policy. This is because Mr M has told us that he took no notice of the warning about 
the will change because Mr Ms mother had disabilities which meant she could not see a 
telephone directory to choose a solicitor and she had no way of getting to a solicitor as she 
was effectively housebound. He also said she often said things in the heat of the moment 
but took no action. So even if they had known their policy wouldnt cover them then I dont 
think they would have felt the need to get cover elsewhere. The second reason is that covering a claim where a child isnt included in a parents will isnt 
something that is included in all legal expenses insurance policies which are attached to 
home insurance. So, Im not convinced that even if Mr and Mrs M had thought it would be a 
good idea to change insurer to one that covered the situation of Mrs Ms mothers will they 
would have persisted to find cover available at a price they would have found acceptable to 
them.
The third reason is that without knowing the insurer they would have chosen and the specific 
wording of the policy I cant say whether the prior knowledge they had would have resulted 
in the claim being turned down.
Mr and Mrs M say that if it takes a solicitor to understand the policy how is an untrained 
member of the public expected to work out whether the policy is right for them in the first 
place? But on 1 September Mr M emailed our investigator and said:
I understand completely the Terms and Conditions in the policy document about named 
beneficiaries only having a valid claim to dispute the Will of a parent.
I think the terms and conditions of the policy are clear and you dont need to be a legal 
expert to understand them. I think it was reasonable of the insurer to refer the claim to the 
panel solicitor before establishing it was a valid claim particularly as to do so required a 
review of a will.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Amtrust had no further comments. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with my second provisional decision but didnt have any more 
points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party wish me to consider anything new, I see no reason to depart from my 
second provisional decision and confirm it here now.
Putting things right
To put things right I am going to order Amtrust pay Mr and Mrs M £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman