DRN-4190318
The complaint
Mr C complains Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his buildings cover 
instead of his home emergency cover and that this unfairly impacts his no claims discount.
What happened
In 2020 the Police forcibly broke into Mr Cs home while he was away. When Mr C returned 
home and became aware of the damage, he made a claim with Aviva. Aviva accepted the 
claim against Mr Cs buildings cover, made the property secure and reinstated the damage, 
costing it about £4,000.
Mr C complains that the claim should have been dealt with as a home emergency. He says 
he only asked for his home to be made safe and because Aviva has unfairly recorded the 
claim against his buildings cover, his insurance premiums are higher than they ought to be. 
He wants Aviva to change the way the claim was classified. 
Aviva responded to say Mr C had called the buildings cover number, which is why it was 
treated as a claim under the buildings cover. It also said a home emergency claim wouldnt 
have been appropriate because it would have been limited to securing the property, likely 
through boarding up. Instead, it repaired the damage under the buildings cover, as was right.
  
Mr C didnt agree hed made a claim against his buildings cover, so he asked our service for 
an independent review. The Investigator concluded, in summary, that Mr C had made a 
claim against his buildings cover and that was correct given the nature of the damage. Mr C 
didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had contents, buildings and home emergency cover with Aviva. However, the home 
emergency cover is provided by a dedicated third party and is accessed through a different 
phone number. Aviva say it received Mr Cs claim directly though its buildings cover 
department. Mr C says this isnt the case and indicated he would provide phone records to 
support his position. This evidence hasnt been provided so I must decide the complaint 
based on the information I have. Having done so, Im not persuaded it was wrong for Aviva 
to log the claim against Mr Cs buildings cover.
 
In any case, I find it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to treat the claim as a buildings one. 
While a claim could have been made for a home emergency, that would have resulted in an 
emergency intervention only, to make the home secure  likely the front door being boarded 
up. What Aviva provided was much more substantial, including major repairs to a front door 
and several internal doors. This cost Aviva over £4,000, whereas the limit on the home 
emergency cover was £1,000. Im therefore satisfied, regardless of whom Mr C called, it was 
appropriate for this claim to be dealt with against Mr Cs buildings cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman