DRN-3470299
The complaint
This complaint is about a letter Santander UK Plc (Santander) sent to a third party in error 
when Mr W redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr W redeemed his mortgage with Santander in December 2021. A few days later, he 
received an email from a third party, forwarding a letter Santander had sent it. The letter 
included Mr Ws full name, address and confirmed the sum hed paid to redeem his 
mortgage.
Mr W phoned Santander to complain about the data breach. He explained that the letter was 
sent to a third party incorrectly as they had had no involvement in the redemption of his 
mortgage. He also said that he knew people that worked for the third party and so the data 
breach was more concerning because those people now have personal information about 
him.
Santander accepted they had made an error and explained that the third party, as a 
professional organisation, would need to treat his personal information confidentially. So, 
Santander said the impact was relatively low and offered Mr W £100 in compensation. It 
increased the offer by a further £100 when Mr W raised the matter again.
Mr W thinks he should be offered significantly more in compensation, so he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ws concerns, but they didnt think that Santander needed to 
do anything more. As Mr W disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint and necessary to explain my findings. I say this because any further detail 
could reduce Mr Ws anonymity when the decision is published.
Santander has already accepted that it made a mistake and so I dont need to look into this 
aspect any further. My role, in this complaint, is to consider whether the amount of 
compensation Santander offered to Mr W is suitable in the circumstances. And having done 
so, I think the compensation offered is appropriate, so I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
When Mr W phoned Santander to inform it of the data breach, it immediately accepted it had 
made a mistake. It couldnt explain how the error occurred, but reassured Mr W it would 
report the breach to the relevant department and ensure that it hadnt affected any other 
customers. Santander explained that there was limited information on the letter and so it 
classed the error as a low breach. For this, Santander credited Mr Ws account with £100. 
Having listened to the phone call, I found that Mr W seemed reasonably happy with the 
resolution offered at the time.
A few days later, Mr W phoned Santander again. He said that hed sought independent 
advice and had been informed that he ought to receive more compensation under the 
circumstances. He felt the amount offered didnt take into account that he knew staff that 
worked for the third party. That there was a risk people who know him have personal 
information about him  most importantly, the redemption figure hed paid to settle his 
mortgage account. Mr W said he was told to expect £2,500 upwards in compensation.
Santander heard Mr Ws concerns but explained that the third party was a professional 
organisation, so the information it received should have been destroyed in line with the rules 
they have to follow. Santander offered a further £100 in compensation. It said £25 of this 
was so that Mr W could register with a fraud prevention agency and £75 was to top up the 
amount offered for the distress caused to him. 
Mr W told Santander he wasnt too concerned about any risk of fraud. But reiterated that the 
breach had a greater impact on him because he knows people that work for the third party. 
Its clear Mr W does know the third party in some capacity as the letter was forwarded to him 
by email even though his email address was not on the letter the third party received. I can 
understand why this would be of more concern to Mr W. But I dont think Santander intended 
to make such an error and it couldnt reasonably have known, when the mistake was made, 
that Mr W would have contacts at the third party.
I also want to explain that our role is not to punish the business, but to put things right in 
terms of the impact the mistake had on Mr W. There was no financial loss to Mr W. And the 
information should have been handled confidentially by the third party. Santander cant 
control this though, so if Mr W feels the third party has acted unprofessionally he would need 
to take that up with them.
Having listened to the calls Mr W had with Santander, he seems to understand theres 
nothing further it can do to correct the mistake. And he seemed happy to accept the amount 
he was initially offered until he received further advice. The advice Mr W says he received is 
not in line with our awards for compensation under such circumstances. So, considering 
everything, I dont think further compensation would make a difference to Mr W. That means, 
I dont think Santander needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman