DRN-3152212
The complaint
Miss P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed her 
account, and then reported adverse information to the Credit Reference Agencies.
What happened
Miss P took out a credit card with Amex in April 2019. In July 2019, Amex decided to close 
her account. It said it sent Miss P a letter in July 2019 confirming this, and then sent her 
another letter in August 2019 outlining that she had 28 days to repay the outstanding 
balance  a total of close to £1,500. 
Miss P said she was living overseas at the time and wasnt aware her account had been 
closed. She said she only realised once she received contact from the debt collection 
company, who Amex had instructed to recover the outstanding balance on the account. 
Miss P said she wasnt given any specific reasons for the account closure, which she was 
unhappy about. 
Miss P made a payment towards the outstanding balance in September 2019. Some months 
following this, she noticed that her credit file was showing a missed payment on the account. 
She said she tried to explain to Amex that she was in hospital between September and 
November 2019, so couldnt make the remaining payment that was due. She says she also 
explained her current account with another bank had been closed, meaning she was having 
difficulty making the payment. She also pointed out that the account with Amex was still 
showing as open on her credit file, despite being told it had closed. Unhappy with matters, 
Miss P complained to Amex.
Amex reviewed things and thought it had closed Miss Ps account in line with its terms and 
conditions and didnt have to offer a specific reason about why this had happened. In a later 
response to Miss Ps additional concerns, Amex was satisfied it had reported correct 
information about the missed payment to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Miss P 
remained unhappy with Amexs response, so she brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think Amex had treated 
Miss P unfairly. She thought Amex had followed the terms and conditions when it closed the 
account. The investigator also explained that Amex was obliged to report accurate 
information to the CRAs which, in this case, was that payment was overdue. She also 
explained that this was why the account was still showing as open on Miss Ps credit file, as 
the balance hadnt yet been settled.
Amex didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Miss P did. In addition to her previous 
points, Miss P said that she was told matters would be put on hold pending this services 
investigation. Therefore, she wasnt obliged to make a payment and Amex shouldnt have 
reported adverse information to the CRAs. She also pointed out that she tried to discuss a 
repayment plan with the appointed debt collection company but was told she didnt meet the 
criteria. So, she didnt think shed been treated fairly.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case came to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision where, in summary, I said that whilst Amex was entitled to close Miss Ps account, I 
thought it shouldve given her 60 days notice before doing so. But I didnt think Miss P had 
suffered any further detriment because of the shorter notice given.
Amex didnt provide any new comments in response to my decision. Miss P disagreed with 
the decision and mostly repeated her earlier points. She also explained that the external 
marker Amex had seen, which she thought it had relied on, had since been removed as it 
had been added in error. So, Miss P thought Amex had closed her account based on 
incorrect information and should re-open it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision 
only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, 
Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision. And, I want to say that I have taken on board all of the additional comments Miss P 
raised in response to the provisional decision.
Account closure
Miss P is unhappy that Amex closed her credit card account with minimal warning and didnt 
give her a reason behind its decision. Miss P has since become aware that the account was 
closed because of a CIFAS marker loaded by another firm. As I understand it, the marker 
has since been removed and Miss P says this was because it was loaded in error. So, she 
says Amex was wrong to rely on it when it made the decision to close her account.
It might be helpful if I explain that banks, such as Amex, are strictly regulated and are 
required to undertake certain actions to comply with regulatory requirements. Its also 
required to conduct ongoing monitoring of the accounts held with it. Amex said it conducted 
a review of Miss Ps account and, upon completion of this, decided to close the account in 
light of the information it saw. 
I appreciate that the CIFAS marker in question has since been removed. However, this 
wasnt discovered until some time after Amex had made the decision to close Miss Ps 
account. And, given that Amex didnt know the marker was due to be removed at the time it 
made its decision, I dont think it acted unreasonably by choosing to rely on it at the time.
The terms and conditions of the account state that Amex is entitled to close an account, 
much in the same way that Miss P was entitled to close her account if she wanted to. Amex 
also isnt required to give specific reasons behind the account closure. However, it should 
give reasonable notice if it chooses to close an account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Usually, this will be with 60 days notice, however banks can give less notice depending on 
the circumstances.
Amex closed Miss Ps account outside of the usual 60-day notice period. The terms and 
conditions allow it to do so under certain circumstances. However, having carefully reviewed 
the information available to me, Im not persuaded that Amexs reasons meet the criteria set 
out for closing an account without notice. Amexs decision to close Miss Ps account was based on a review it carried out. However, 
Ive not seen evidence from Amex to satisfy me that it carried out an investigation about 
what it saw in its review. It seems to have undertaken some further electronic checks, which 
I accept did give it further cause for concern. But Ive not seen that it asked Miss P any 
questions about what it had seen. Ive also not seen that Amex did enough to evidence that 
Miss P might be a risk to it, or that she breached the terms and conditions of the account.
So, whilst I think Amex was entitled to close the account, I think it ought to have given 
Miss P 60 days notice in line with the terms and conditions of the account. With this in mind, 
Ill next need to think about whether Miss P has suffered any further detriment as a result of 
the shorter notice.
The outstanding balance on the account
When Amex decided to close Miss Ps account, there was a balance remaining of close to 
£1,500. As I understand it, Amex told Miss P it was closing her account in mid-July 2019. It 
then sent Miss P a notice of termination in August 2019, which gave her a further 28 days to 
make a payment to her account. So, whilst I think Amex did close Miss Ps account 
prematurely, having reviewed the terms and conditions of the account Im persuaded that it 
still gave her an appropriate period of time to make a payment towards the outstanding 
balance. Miss P did make a payment in early September 2019, however this didnt clear the 
balance and it therefore remained payable on the account.  
Miss P said that she was unfortunately unwell shortly after making the payment in 
September 2019 and she was in hospital overseas for some six weeks. She said she had no 
means of making phone calls from the hospital and therefore couldnt pay the remaining 
balance. I was sorry to hear that Miss P was unwell. Ive reviewed contemporaneous contact 
notes and can see that Miss P did make some phone calls to the appointed debt collection 
company during this six-week period. The notes also show that the outstanding balance was 
discussed. So, I think Miss P was aware that payment was due on the account and had 
been discussing the outstanding balance during that period. And, Im persuaded that Miss P 
would have made a payment if she was able to.
I note that Miss P said her current account with another bank had been closed, which 
contributed to difficulties in making a payment. However, I can see since the complaint has 
been with this service, alternative ways of making a payment have been discussed. Miss P 
has also been given details of how to make an international payment towards the 
outstanding balance, but this hasnt been paid to date. Therefore, whilst I understand the 
inconvenience of having her current account closed, Im not persuaded that it affected 
Miss P in the way she describes. 
In her testimony, Miss P says Amex treated her unfairly and said she didnt qualify for a 
repayment plan. Ive reviewed contact notes which show that the debt collection company, 
instructed by Amex, had conversations with Miss P about the outstanding balance and it 
reviewed Miss Ps income and expenditure to gain an overall picture of her circumstances. It 
then established that the amount Miss P could afford to pay towards the balance didnt cover 
the minimum payment.
Amex has said rather than defaulting the account or, conversely, entering Miss P into an 
unaffordable repayment plan, she was given details of debt management companies and 
asked to contact them and take some time to consider her options. The contact notes show 
that Miss P was then asked to get back in touch following this so the matter could be 
reviewed. It agreed to pause all collections activities in the meantime and has done so to 
date. However, as I understand it, Miss P didnt go back with any further information despite 
being reminded to do so. And, Ive considered that she still hasnt to date. So, Im afraid I dont agree with Miss P here and I do think due consideration was given to her 
circumstances.
Reporting to the CRAs
Miss P is unhappy that missed payments on the account were reported to the CRAs. She 
says she was told matters would be put on hold whilst her complaint was being investigated 
by this service, so she thinks its unfair that Amex reported adverse information. 
The notes Ive seen show that Miss P asked for matters to be put on hold and this was 
agreed in the first instance. From what Ive seen, however, Im persuaded that what the 
adviser agreed to put on hold was the collections activity on the account as Ive outlined 
previously. So, whilst Miss Ps complaint was being investigated by this service, collections 
activity would continue to be on hold and Miss Ps account wouldnt be defaulted due to the 
outstanding balance that remained unpaid.
I think this was a reasonable response to Miss Ps request. And, I think it was reasonable to 
still report that payments had been missed on the account. I say this because Amex has 
provided evidence to show the last payment to the account was in September 2019. Given 
that a payment hasnt been made after this date, I consider it reasonable that Amex would 
report that payments had been missed as it is obliged to report an accurate reflection of the 
account status to the CRAs.
As I understand it, Miss P is concerned that Amex is reporting information on a debt that she 
says now belongs to the debt collection company. However, Amex has confirmed that the 
debt collection company is acting on its behalf to recover the balance. Therefore, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Amex has reported information about the account to the CRAs.
Miss P has also raised concerns that the account is showing as open on her credit file, 
despite not being able to use the card. Amex has told us that this is because there is still an 
outstanding balance that remains payable on the account. Once this has been paid, the 
status will reflect that the account has been settled. I also think this is reasonable, given that 
it is an accurate reflection of the account status.
In summary, whilst I think Amex shouldve given Miss P 60 days notice before it closed her 
account, I cant see that being given less notice caused Miss P any further detriment here. 
And, I cant conclude that Amex has acted unfairly by reporting accurate information about 
the status of the account to the CRAs.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited doesnt need to do 
anything to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman