DRN-2620909
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs R are unhappy that TICORP Limited has charged them an administration fee 
for cancelling their travel insurance policy.
Mr W and Mrs R bought their travel insurance policy through Staysure. Staysure is a trading 
name of TICORP Limited. So Ive referred to TICORP Limited as Staysure throughout this 
decision.
 What happened
On 14 March 2020, Mr W and Mrs R bought an annual travel insurance policy from 
Staysure. Mr W initially tried to buy the policy online, but after the website crashed, he called 
up Staysure to get a quote. He completed the sale of the policy online later that day. Mr W 
and Mrs R paid £153.51 for their policy. Cover under the policy started that day and the 
policy was due to end on 13 March 2021. 
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised UK citizens against all but essential travel on 
17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant Mr W and Mrs R were 
unlikely to be able to take the trips theyd planned. So on 24 March 2020, Mr W spoke with 
Staysure to cancel the policy. Staysure offered Mr W the option to either have a credit 
voucher for the full value of the policy, which would be valid for 36 months. Or to have a 
refund of the price hed paid for the policy. Thats because the insurers policy terms said 
that if a policyholder cancelled their policy within 14 days of taking it out, theyd be entitled to 
a refund of premium. As Mr W and Mrs R asked to cancel the policy within 14 days of buying 
the insurance, they wanted a refund of the premiums hed paid.
Staysure told Mr W that its terms of business say that policies cancelled within the first 14 
days of purchase would be subject to a £25 administration fee. So it deducted this amount 
from the cash refund it paid Mr W and Mrs R, paying them £128.51.
Mr W and Mrs R werent happy that Staysure had deducted an administration fee. They said 
that Staysure hadnt told them about it when they took out the policy. They asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr W and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
the relevant regulators rules state that a financial business cant require a consumer to pay 
any amount unless the business can prove the consumer was told about it. The investigator 
considered both the call between Mr W and Staysure and the online sales process. The 
administration fee wasnt discussed during the call and he didnt think the online application 
process made it clear enough that an administration fee would be charged. So he didnt think 
Staysure had met its obligations under the regulators rules. He recommended that Staysure 
should refund the administration charge itd deducted from Mr W and Mrs Rs premium 
refund.
Staysure disagreed. It said that during the online sales process, Mr W had had to tick a box 
to confirm hed read its terms of business, which set out the fee. It didnt see what else it 
couldve done to ensure that the terms of business were read. It referred to the outcomes of 
complaints wed looked into previously. It felt that Mr W shouldnt have ticked the box to 
confirm hed read and understood the documentation if he was unhappy with it, or he hadnt 
read it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Staysure to charge an administration fee. Ill 
explain why.
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business)
say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
FCA guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr W and Mrs Rs
complaint, Ive had regard to these rules and guidance. Ive also taken into account the rules
set out in the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS 7.1.1 says a consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any
reason, certain contracts within 14 days. This is called the right to cancel and I think this
right to cancel applies to the contact of insurance Mr W and Mrs R held. Mr W and Mrs R
exercised their right to cancel by asking Staysure to cancel their travel insurance policy
within the first 14 days of taking it out.
ICOBS 7.2 deals with payment by a consumer for the service provided before cancellation. A
consumer may be required to pay an amount on cancellation including any sums that a firm
has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract  but this shouldnt include any element
of profit. The amount payable must not:
exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in 
comparison with the full cover of the contract; and in any case be such that it could be 
construed as a penalty.
ICOBS 7.2.2 (3) says:
A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount payable
Staysure says the £25 administration fee charged to Mr W and Mrs R reflects its costs in
administering the policy on behalf of the policy insurer. But Staysure is only entitled to
charge this fee if it can demonstrate that Mr W and Mrs R were duly informed about the
amount payable when they took out the policy.
I first listened to the call between Mr W and Staysure, which took place on 14 March 2020. 
The call handler asked Mr W for information about him and Mrs R and she asked questions 
about their travel plans and their health. But during the quotation call, the call handler didnt explain to Mr W that if he needed to cancel the policy within the first 14 days of cover, 
Staysure would apply a £25 administration fee. 
Next, Ive looked at the information provided by Staysure showing the online sales process 
for Mr W and Mrs Rs policy and thought about the available information about Staysures 
sales process. Before going ahead with buying the insurance, Mr W was asked to tick a box 
to confirm he had read and accepted Staysures terms of business. The sale couldnt have 
gone ahead unless they ticked this box.
When clicking on the displayed hyperlink to Staysures terms of business, Mr W
would have been presented with two options  one terms of business for travel insurance
policies, and a second terms of business for a different type of insurance. Upon selecting the
terms of business for travel insurance, Mr W would have seen details about the
£25 administration fee displayed towards the end of page two.
Staysures terms of business for travel insurance policies, at page two, say:
Your Cancellation Rights
You have the right to cancel new or renewed policies within 14 days of purchase or from the 
date you receive your documents, whichever is later. If the policy is cancelled within 14 days, 
you will receive a full premium refund less an administration fee of £25.
Staysure says its the consumers responsibility to ensure they have read the terms of
business before ticking the box on the online sales process to confirm theyve done so. This 
then allows the policy purchase to proceed. And I agree it may have been reasonable for 
Staysure to expect Mr W and Mrs R to read information which was relevant to their policy in 
order to satisfy themselves that they understood the terms and conditions of the cover being
purchased.
However, Staysures sales process didnt only rely on Mr W and Mrs R ticking a box to
confirm theyd clicked on a link to read the terms of business. The sales journey also relied
on Mr W then choosing the correct terms of business which was relevant to the policy he 
was taking out and reading through almost two pages of information before the £25 
administration fee was mentioned.
In light of this, I dont think it was clear or prominent from Staysures online sales process
that an administration fee would be charged, or what the amount of that administration fee
would be if Mr W and Mrs R cancelled the policy in the 14-day cooling off period. So, it
follows that I dont think I can fairly say Mr W and Mrs R were duly informed about the
administration fee for cancelling their policy within the first 14 days, in line with Staysures
requirements under ICOBS.
This means that I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for Staysure to refund 
the administration fee of £25 it deducted from Mr W and Mrs Rs refund amount, together 
with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date it paid the original refund to the 
date of settlement.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct TICORP Limited to refund the £25 administration fee it deducted from Mr W and Mrs 
Rs premium refund. It must also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
the original refund until the date of settlement.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman