DRN-3593818
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by Towergate Financial (East) Limited (Towergate)
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a
personal pension. He says that hes only just found out that his DB scheme would have
provided him with a pension of around £10,000 a year and says that had he known this at
the time he wouldnt have transferred out of the scheme.
What happened
Following an introduction via his ex-employer, Mr E met with Towergate in May 2007 to
discuss his pension and retirement needs.
On 17 May 2007 Towergate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Es
circumstances and objectives. Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr Es attitude
to risk, which it deemed to be cautious  a score of two on a scale of one to ten.
After this meeting Mr G sent Towergate a handwritten letter, which said that he wanted to go
ahead and transfer his DB pension benefits into a personal pension and take a cash lump
sum (representing an enhancement to the transfer value offered by his employer.) He said
that he understood this was against Towergates advice, but he wanted to use some of the
lump sum to help him get into the pub trade and because he didnt think he would live long
enough to retire  so he wanted to ...live for today and not worry about tomorrow.
On 30 May 2007 Towergate provided its advice in a suitability report. The report said that Mr
E had indicated he was an insistent client and that he wanted to transfer his pension benefits
out of his DB scheme. Towergate went on to advise Mr E not to transfer his DB scheme
pension benefits into a personal pension. It said the reason for this recommendation was
because there was a high risk that Mr E would be worse off in retirement  the critical yield
was high at 6.8% when Mr Es attitude to risk was cautious.
Within the same report and immediately beneath the recommendation not to transfer, it said
that because Mr E had decided to transfer anyway, hed asked Towergate to recommend a
suitable product and provider to receive his DB scheme benefits. Towergates recommended
solution was to transfer to a personal pension and invest the money in a Lifestyle fund,
which would provide flexibility and competitive charges.
In October 2017 Towergate wrote to Mr E to tell him that as part of some work carried out by
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to pension transfer advice, it was carrying
out a review of some of its past pension advice, which Mr E chose to be included in.
In December 2019 Towergate wrote to Mr E to say that its review of the advice he was given
showed that he was told not to transfer his DB pension but that he knowingly acted against
that advice. It said that the reason Mr E gave in his insistent client letter for wanting to go
ahead with the transfer was the same as he gave in the questionnaire it sent as part of the
review work. It also said that despite its findings that Mr E wasnt fully informed, including not
being told clearly that he could retire on an unreduced pension from age 60 if he stayed in
his DB scheme, Mr E indicated that hed have still gone ahead with the transfer. But it went
on to say that, despite Mr E being recorded as a cautious investor, his pension monies were
invested in a balanced fund and it wasnt clear why this was the case. It said it needed to
consider this further.
In August 2020 Towergate wrote to Mr E and offered him £2,441.99 for the loss hed
suffered as a result of being invested in the wrong fund.
Mr E rejected the offer because he said it was too low and he didnt understand why some
other people in the same situation as him had got a lot more. He went on to explain that
because of the rumours about the financial security of his DB scheme, and its subsequent
offer of an enhanced transfer value, like most of his friends and colleagues he moved his
pension away without knowing if it was the right thing to do. Mr E said that hed suffered from
a serious medical condition around 2014, which had changed his outlook on life and left him
with memory problems.
Because Towergate maintained that its offer was fair, Mr E referred his complaint to our
service.
I issued my provisional decision of June 2022 in which I said I was likely to uphold this 
complaint. I said this was because I wasnt persuaded that Mr E was a true insistent client 
and that he hadnt been put in a position to make a fully informed decision about whether 
transferring out of his existing DB scheme to a personal pension was in his best interests. 
And because I thought Towergate had actually recommended that he transfer out.
Mr E said he agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Towergate disagreed and asked me to reconsider my decision. In summary it said:
the issues the ombudsman has highlighted about Mr Es attitude to risk and him 
taking his benefits earlier were addressed in its previous review and so theres no 
need to re-visit these.
Mr Es decision to transfer was in part due to the underlying concern amongst the 
workforce at the time that the company was about to fold  he wanted to avoid the 
loss of his accrued pension if this were to happen despite the recommendation not to 
transfer.
The ombudsman has interpreted Mr Es comments about his health status at the time 
and wanting to live for today and not worry about tomorrow as being negative and 
that Mr E was in a vulnerable position. It says this is without justification and believes 
Mr Es comments are from someone who was realistic and taking a pragmatic 
approach to bettering his circumstances given his familys medical history. 
Mr Es complaint was prompted only by his dissatisfaction with Towergates offer of 
redress with regard to investing in a fund which didnt match his attitude to risk profile 
 not because he thought hed received incorrect financial advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and my reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), stated in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COB) at the time, that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Towergate should have only considered a transfer if it
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests (COB 5.3.29G).
A key aspect in this case is Towergates categorisation of Mr E as an insistent client - this is
a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and 
wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Towergate
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In
addition, COB required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mr E had to have
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
In it suitability report, Towergate recommended that Mr E should not transfer away from his
DB scheme. It said this was because the critical yield or investment return needed to match
the benefits of his existing scheme was too high given his cautious attitude to risk.
Towergate warned Mr E that there was a high risk hed be worse off in retirement if he
transferred.
In the same report, Towergate said that Mr E had decided he wanted to go ahead in any
event. And in response to Mr Es request, it went on to recommend a solution that provided
flexible retirement benefits.
Mr E says that because of the rumours about the financial security of his DB scheme, and its
subsequent offer of an enhanced transfer value, like most of his friends and colleagues he
moved his pension away without knowing if it was the right thing to do. He says that, had he
understood hed have been better off staying in his DB scheme, he wouldnt have gone
ahead.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while I accept that Towergates 
suitability report did initially set out that its recommendation for Mr E was not to proceed with 
the transfer, I think there were significant weaknesses and failings in the advice process as a
whole, which meant Towergate didnt act in his best interests. And I think Mr E likely
understood or believed overall that Towergate was recommending he should go ahead with
the transfer.
I say this because firstly I can see that Mr Es insistent client letter was written and received
by Towergate before Mr E had received Towergates suitability report  so it appears before
Mr E knew what Towergates advice really was and certainly before hed had time to read,
understand and reflect on the written advice and recommendation made. 
I think this means it was during Mr Es initial meeting with Towergate on 17 May 2007 that 
the adviser entered into a discussion about how he could put aside its advice and transfer 
anyway, which ultimately appears to have led to Mr E deciding to transfer out of his DB 
scheme in any event.
I dont think Towergates actions here were fair to Mr E or were acting in his best
interests. I think if Towergate firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was
acting in his best interests, it wouldnt have told Mr E at the same time as formulating its
advice  and before it delivered its actual written recommendation  how he could put thatadvice to one side and how Towergate could facilitate the transfer anyway.
I dont think it was in Mr Es best interests to go against Towergates recommendation  yet
the evidence appears to indicate that Towergate made it very easy for him to do so. And as I
will discuss later on, given the way the recommendation was worded and structured, I think
Mr E could have interpreted this overall that Towergate was recommending he go ahead and
transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Towergate that Mr E had little knowledge or experience
of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr E was an
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced.
Im mindful too that Towergate assessed Mr Es attitude to risk as cautious (later described
in the suitability letter as very cautious) which doesnt suggest that he would be someone
who was confident or had the requisite knowledge or skill to go against the advice they were 
given by a professional adviser. Indeed, the answers Mr E gave to the questions Towergate 
asked as part of its assessment of his attitude to risk, in my view support this  for example 
he said that he didnt like to keep up to date on financial matters, his knowledge of financial 
terms was limited, and the thought of losing his money on an investment made him nervous.
I also think that Mr E was in a vulnerable position at the time. Towergate has challenged this 
and said that my view is wholly without justification. It says that Ive interpreted what Mr E 
said about his health and what he wrote in his insistent client letter about wanting to live 
today and not worry about tomorrow as being negative, whereas it believes they are the 
words of someone who was taking a realistic and pragmatic approach given his 
circumstances.
I disagree. I think the evidence that Mr E was unemployed having recently been made 
redundant from a job which hed given several years of service to, coupled with the language 
he used in his insistent client paperwork supports my view that he was in a vulnerable 
position. But even if I thought that wasnt the case, his financial inexperience coupled with 
his cautious attitude to risk shouldve put Towergate on notice that it had to be very careful if 
it was to take matters through the insistent client route.
While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at the time, given Mr Es level of experience 
and circumstances, I think it wouldve been important for Towergate to ensure he
understood what he was getting into. And while Mr Es insistent client letter was in his own
words, none of what he said says or implies that he understood the recommendation being 
made  most likely because he had hadnt yet received it. So I dont think that Mr E was
able to make an informed choice here. And I think the reasons Mr E gave for wanting to
proceed  using the cash lump sum to hopefully go into the pub trade and what we said 
about wanting to live for today ought to have given Towergate reason to ask further
questions.
But instead Towergate immediately proceeded to produce a recommendation, which I think
was unclear and confused. I say this because Towergate initially recommended that Mr E
should not transfer away from his DB scheme. But immediately underneath the brief one
reason it gave as to why he shouldnt do so  and after setting out Mr Es options the first
and second of which involved him transferring his benefits out of the DB scheme - it 
proceeded to give a positive recommendation advising Mr E to transfer his benefits to a 
personal pension and invest in a cautious lifestyle fund. And crucially this was all set out 
under a heading titled Recommendation.While the suitability requirements under COB 5.3 were not as prescriptive as the current
rules and were more principles-based, I think Towergate was still required to give Mr E
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction - that is the transfer and the choice of
pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr E advice on the advice to transfer, and only 
considered the suitability of the proposed solution after Mr E decided to proceed in any 
event.
So, by recommending that Mr E transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, I think
Towergate has effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Towergate
didnt think that transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension was in Mr Es best
interests, it needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was
unsuitable for him. I dont think it could separate out the elements. For this reason and given
the way the suitability report was set out, I think Mr E likely believed Towergate was
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Turning back to the first and in my view the main reason Mr E said he wanted to go ahead 
he said he wanted to use the available cash lump sum to help him get into the pub trade. I
think in acting in Mr Es best interests Towergate should have gathered more information to
better understand Mr Es plans  for example I think Towergate could have asked questions
around why Mr E needed money to achieve this and importantly how much money he
needed and whether it was a viable proposition - before continuing to facilitate an irreversible
transaction to transfer his pension.
Mr E has told us that following his redundancy, his employer offered meetings with agencies
to help him find work. He says that he was asked to think about any prior experience, which
might help. With this in mind he said because his family had worked in pubs and he knew
the trade, he planned to take a course and hopefully buy a lease. But importantly, Mr E says
that he didnt know how much he might need to do this at the time. In fact it turned out that it
was much more than Mr E says he could afford. So it appears that Mr Es plans werent
viable. But Towergate didnt try to understand this. Instead it simply accepted what he said, 
recorded this as his objective and proceeded to facilitate Mr E transferring his pension.
I can see that Mr E also said he wanted to go ahead because he didnt think that based on
family history he would reach retirement age, and so he wanted to live for the moment. 
Towergate also says that Mr Es decision was in part based on concerns of him losing his 
accrued pension if the rumours about his employers solvency were true.
But again, in acting in Mr Es best interests I think Towergate should have helped Mr E to 
see through what I think was simply an emotional response to the vulnerable position I 
consider he was in. This was Towergates opportunity to highlight and remind Mr E of 
several things: to remind him that he was only 45; he was in good health; fit for work; and 
what the current average life expectancy was, and also that he should not have genuinely 
been concerned about the security of his pension - if the scheme did end up moving to the 
Pension Protection Fund, I think Towergate should have explained that this was not as 
concerning as Mr E might have thought. 
But also crucially in Mr Es case, and despite what Towergate says about this already having 
been addressed in its previous review of the advice it gave, it should have been clear that Mr 
E could access the benefits in his DB scheme from age 60 without penalty  so at a 
relatively early age. I think without this crucial information Mr E was not in a position to make 
an informed decision.
So while I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time, I consider the
rules that were in place at the time were clear that Towergate had to act with due care and
skill and in Mr Es best interests. And by not seeking to fully understand Mr Es objectives
and what he was trying to achieve (and whether it was possible) before carrying things out,Im not persuaded this was acting in Mr Es best interest. And ultimately, I dont think Mr E
was able to make an informed choice here  Mr E didnt have Towergates written
recommendation to digest before he decided to act against its advice, I think he was in a
vulnerable position, and it seems to me that Mr E likely went ahead with the transfer as he
believed this was the only way to meet what he thought was his objective and because it
seemed like a good idea given what his ex-colleagues had done. I also cannot ignore that I 
think the evidence shows Towergate actually gave Mr E a positive recommendation to 
transfer out of the scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve given him the 
impression that Towergate agreed with this approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Towergate followed meant that Mr E can truly be regarded as an
insistent client. Towergates communications overall werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr
Es best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider whether Mr E wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer had
things happened as they should have. Having done so, if Towergate had acted in Mr Es
best interests, providing a recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction
envisaged at the outset, fully addressing Mr Es objectives at the time and being clear that 
he could access his existing scheme benefits at age 60, I dont think Mr E wouldve insisted 
on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above, I dont think Mr E was an 
experienced investor such that he possessed the requisite skill, knowledge, or had the 
confidence to go against the advice he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice and 
process Towergate employed.
I accept that Mr E was unemployed and its recorded that he had an income deficit of just 
under £400 a month  so on the one hand this might have been given Mr E good reason to 
want to transfer. But on the other hand he was fit for work and seeking work  he also still 
had savings he couldve used to offset his income shortfall for a further ten months or so. So 
Im not persuaded Mr E wouldve insisted on going ahead because of his financial or 
employment situation.
I can see that Towergate says Mr E indicated hed have still gone ahead anyway in one of
the answers he gave on the questionnaire it sent him as part of the review of the advice it
gave  it says he used the same language here as on his insistent client letter at the time.
Ive thought about this carefully. Firstly Im mindful that Mr E suffered a serious medical
condition around 2014, which he says affects his memory, creates confusion, and makes
form filling difficult. And Ive no reason to doubt this given the seriousness of his condition.
But despite that, it strikes me that Mr E likely gave the same answer and said hed have still
gone ahead because he still believed at this point that this was only way he couldve met
what he thought was his objective at the time. As I set out above, I dont think Towergate put
Mr E in a fully informed position at the time of the advice  and I havent seen enough to
persuade me that Mr E was in a substantially more informed position later on when he
completed Towergates questionnaire.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, Im not
persuaded that Mr E would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In closing I can see that Towergate says Mr Es subsequent decision to raise a complaint 
was prompted by his dissatisfaction with the level of redress it offered when compared to 
that of his ex-colleagues and not out of a sense that he had received incorrect financial 
advice. Its not entirely clear what point Towergate is trying to make here. But in my view Mr 
E has raised a valid complaint  hes given a written expression of dissatisfaction, whether 
justified or not, about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service. Mr E doesnt have to articulate precisely what he thinks has gone wrong  simply that he believes 
something has gone wrong. And Im satisfied hes done that here. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for Towergates failings. I consider Mr E would have
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct
process followed.
Towergate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr E couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at
age 60. So, I think compensation should be based on Mr E accessing his benefits
at age 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr
Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance
.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date Towergate receives
notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Towergate Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Towergate
Financial (East) Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate
Financial (East) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept a final
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman