DRN-3493028
The complaint
Mr S complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd unfairly declined his business 
interruption claim made for losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr S operates a pub and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten as far as is 
relevant by China Taiping. This policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for 
business interruption. 
In March 2020, Mr S had to close his pub as a result of the government-imposed restrictions 
introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. Mr S contacted China Taiping to claim for the 
losses incurred. China Taiping declined the claim. 
China Taiping explained that the core business interruption cover related to incidents of 
damage, and such damage was not the cause of Mr Ss claim. China Taiping also said that 
the Denial of Access extension to this cover did not apply to the circumstances, because the 
actions taken that led to the closure of Mr Ss premises were not those of the Police or other 
competent local authority. And that a further extension, providing cover in relation to 
Disease, was limited to a specified list of diseases that did not include COVID-19. 
Mr S complained and, when China Taiping did not change its decision, he referred his 
complaint to this service. However, our Investigator felt that China Taipings decision was in 
line with the policy terms. The Investigator said that, in the context of this policy, she thought 
the term competent local authority referred to a localised body, rather than central 
government. And that the cause of Mr S closing his pub was the announcement and 
introduction of restrictions by the UK Government. The Investigator also agreed with China 
Taipings reasoning on the other parts of the policy. 
Mr S accepted most of the Investigators reasoning, but remained unsatisfied around the 
interpretation of a competent local authority. He also said that if his pub had remained 
open, he would have been closed by the Police or local authority. 
As the Investigator did not alter her opinion, Mr S asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on Mr S. And for the 
circumstances he found himself in. But, largely for the same reasons as our Investigator, I 
dont consider this complaint should be upheld. I have set out below why I have come to this 
decision.
Relevant considerations
I have considered all the circumstances of this complaint and borne in mind the relevant 
FCA rules contained in its Handbook. I have also taken into consideration the relevant 
legislation and case law, including The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case).
Additionally, I have taken into account the Award reached in a separate arbitration process 
China Taiping engaged in. The arbitration process was agreed between China Taiping and 
some of its policyholders. The policyholders were hospitality businesses (restaurants, cafes, 
bars and pubs). As part of the agreement to go to arbitration, China Taiping agreed to pay 
the reasonable legal costs of the policyholders. The policyholders were therefore 
represented by a law firm, as well as a QC and junior barrister who specialised in insurance.
The arbitrator was a retired Supreme Court Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, 
Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and impartially, giving each party a reasonable 
opportunity of putting its case and dealing with that of its opponent.
This arbitration, in part, considered the meaning of the subclauses in the Denial of Access 
extension. And so, as the matters subject to the arbitration proceedings were largely 
comparable to those in this complaint, I have considered the arbitrators Award. A copy of 
the Award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. 
The arbitrator concluded the policy did not provide the cover that was suggested by the 
policyholders involved in the arbitration. The key reasoning in the award, as far as I consider 
relevant to the current complaint, is that:
The natural meaning of the term competent local authority was a local, rather than 
central, body. The policyholders argued that competent local authority meant any 
authority which was competent to take action in relation to the local area. The 
arbitrator did not think this was right because it would mean that the word local did 
not add anything to competent authority.
Elsewhere, the policy distinguished between local authorities and government. 
However, there was no direct link between the relevant provisions; and insurance 
policy language may be taken from different sources.
The legislation in relation to diseases enables the Secretary of State to impose 
restrictions on a local or national basis; or to empower a local authority to do so. The 
Civil Contingencies Act (which grants powers to deal with emergencies) is in similar 
terms. China Taiping relied on the distinction under the legislation between 
government and local authorities. It also relied on other legislation conferring powers 
on local authorities to deal with emergencies and take enforcement action in relation 
to situations covered by the Denial of Access and Disease extensions, such as public 
safety issues, food poisoning, anti-social behaviour, sanitation, and vermin.
The test case judgment on the wording in an Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC 
policy wasnt of much assistance, given the different contexts and wording of the 
policies. This included the Ecclesiastical policys use of the terms Government, 
Police and Local Authority as well as competent local authority; and the 25-mile 
radius in the Ecclesiastical disease clause. In the Ecclesiastical policy, it would have 
led to a very odd result if the two terms had meant different things.
China Taipings interpretation was not contrary to commercial common sense. 
Limiting the insured peril to local authority actions was understandable and most pre-
pandemic claims would have been covered. It was also a pragmatic way of indicating that the cover was localised.
The arbitrator therefore decided that competent local authority meant a body with local, 
rather than countrywide authority.
The Award the arbitrator reached is not binding on this Service (or on Mr S), but I have 
considered the outcome and reasoning in the arbitration when reaching my own decision, for 
the reasons set out above.
The terms of Mr Ss policy
The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr S took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such, Ive considered every aspect of the policy Mr S 
held with China Taiping to determine whether there are any sections that would require 
China Taiping to meet the claim Mr S is making. Having done so, I dont think there are.
Mr Ss policy includes cover in relation to losses resulting from an interruption to Mr Ss 
business. As with most policies of this nature, the business interruption section is initially 
based on the interruption being caused by damage to the policyholders premises. I dont 
consider COVID-19 or the pandemic generally caused damage that led to the interruption of 
Mr Ss business.
However, this cover is extended to include a number of other perils. The key extensions in 
relation to this complaint are the Denial of Access extension and the Disease extension. The 
latter of these provides cover for a specified list of diseases, not including COVID-19  so I 
dont consider it would provide cover in relation to a claim resulting from COVID-19.
Mr S has said that he accepts our Investigators interpretation of how much of the policy 
relates to his claim. So, I will focus the rest of this decision on subclauses b and c of the 
Denial of Access extension to the policy. 
Denial of Access extension
The Denial of Access extension says that cover includes:
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of

b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of 
the Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other 
competent local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or 
any director or partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the 
carrying out of repair or maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds 
noncompliance with a prior order of the Police or other competent local 
authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to 
an emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises; 

Subclause b and c require either there to have been the issuing of instructions, or the 
actions or advice of, the Police or other competent local authority that led to the interruption or interference. 
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been defined within 
the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to consider what these terms are most likely to 
mean in the context of this policy.
Like the Investigator, I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday 
usage of this term and I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Mr Ss 
premises was a requirement following the instructions of the government-imposed 
restrictions, rather than any action of the police.
Mr S has said that if his premises had remained open in contravention of the Governments 
restrictions, it would have been instructed to close by the Police. But this did not happen in 
the circumstances of Mr Ss claim. And whilst I note Mr Ss comments, I am only able to 
come to a decision based on the circumstances of the claim.
So, the circumstances of Mr Ss claim are not covered by this part of the clause. 
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent local 
authority means. China Taiping has said that whilst Mr Ss premises were closed, this was 
not due to the instructions of a local authority. And that this is what the term requires.
Taking everything into account, including the arbitrators decision, I consider that the term 
competent local authority as it is used in Mr Ss policy means a localised authority. As the 
arbitrator has concluded, there is seemingly no reason for the inclusion of the word local in 
this term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a narrow geographic area. And I 
consider the natural way of reading this term would be to conclude that it referred to local 
bodies only.
When reaching this conclusion, I am mindful of the fact Mr Ss insurance contract should be 
interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person, with the 
background knowledge of the parties to the contract, would have had at the time the contract 
was entered. I dont think the reasonable person would have read this policy and considered 
that this term referred to a national authority/the UK Government. That would not be the 
natural understanding of the words used in the term.
I do note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority was 
reached in the FCA test case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical policies. 
However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the contract they are in. 
And there are significant differences between the Ecclesiastical policies and Mr Ss policy. 
To my mind, the key difference was that the Ecclesiastical policy used this term in a clause 
that also contained the term Government Police or Local Authority. And it would not have 
made commercial sense for the two terms to have a different meaning in that context. 
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on Mr S which might fall generally into the 
areas of cover provided by sub-clauses b and c in the Denial of Access extension, as well 
as the Disease extension, could be following instructions of either local or national bodies. 
But that there is reasonable commercial sense in China Taiping having limited cover to 
where those instructions are given by a local body. This would have given Mr S cover for the 
events which were most likely to affect his business, but would also have limited 
China Taipings exposure to extreme events, which are more likely to result in a national 
response, such extreme events likely to result in high value claims. And, significantly, I dont 
think Mr S would reasonably have understood the policy as providing cover different to this 
when it was entered.Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Mr Ss policy the term competent local authority 
refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Mr Ss premises were 
issued by the Prime Minister and the UK Government. And I dont consider these to be a 
localised body. As such, I do not consider Mr S was instructed to close his premises by a 
competent local authority. And I consider China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Mr Ss claim under subclause b or c of the Denial of Access extension.
Having considered the rest of Mr Ss policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area 
of cover that means China Taiping should have met Mr Ss claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr S, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why his 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman