DRN-1436222
 
The complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr N bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking a credit card. 
Barclaycard didn't consider the PPI had been mis-sold, but it offered £50 to Mr N because it 
had taken too long to log his complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and said he didn't accept Barclaycard's offer of £50. The complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Barclaycard made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because he did tick the box on his credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover. There was a box directly underneath that he couldve 
ticked if he didnt want it. So from what Ive seen, I think Mr N wouldve realised he 
had a choice.
Barclaycard accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr N, but it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time. Mr N says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work, 
and that he could've relied on his partner. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
Mr Ns employer benefits and wouldve been useful to him if he couldnt work. And it 
wouldve meant he didn't have to rely on his partner to cover the credit card 
payments. So I think Mr N wouldve had some use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mr N would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Mr N says he's received a PPI refund in connection with another Barclaycard credit card. so 
he considers his complaint about the PPI sold in connection with this card should also be 
upheld. But we consider each case on its own merits. And having done so in this case, for 
the reasons I've explained I'm not persuaded that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr N to decide whether or not 
he wants to accept Barclaycard's offer of £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman