DRN-3613651
The complaint
A company Ill call K complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) delayed in 
releasing its account balance to K, and provided poor service when K tried to contact First 
Data to resolve the issue.
K is represented by one of its directors, Mr T.
What happened
Between 18 and 31 August 2020, K received a total of £49,317.50 into its First Data account. 
That balance accrued as a result of several payments being rejected by Ks bank, after Ks 
bank closed Ks account. First Data required new bank details for K, which K provided and 
which First Data updated on 21 September 2020.
But K didnt receive the account balance, so it complained to First Data. First Datas account 
records showed a nil balance for K, so it carried out an investigation to locate Ks funds. It 
located £49,317.50 on 22 December 2020 and returned that amount to K. 
K had raised a formal complaint, which First Data responded to on 31 December 2020. It 
said it had completed its investigation into the missing funds, and that the £49,317.50 had 
been located and was in the process of being returned. It didnt offer any explanation for 
what had happened or why there had been a delay. But it did say it had paid K £100 in 
recognition of the inconvenience and poor service K had experienced.
Mr T wasnt happy with First Datas resolution, so he brought Ks complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at Ks complaint and felt First Data should pay compensation to K. 
She said First Data had caused delays in returning the funds, given First Data located them 
on 21 September 2020 but didnt return them until 22 December 2020.
She said First Data hadnt provided any comments to justify the delay in returning Ks funds, 
so she felt First Data should pay K interest at the rate of 8% on Ks account balance for the 
period during which K was deprived of its money. She also thought First Data should pay K 
£250 in respect of the inconvenience First Data caused K while it was investigating the 
missing funds.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings. He said K had to borrow money to cope 
without the £49,317.50. And he felt the compensation didnt take into account the months 
First Data took to locate the funds. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr T and First Data have said, before reaching my decision.
First Data told our service that the delay in returning Ks funds was caused by Ks bank, 
saying it was waiting for the payments to reject back from Ks bank. However, Ive seen 
evidence from Ks bank that demonstrates it had blocked Ks account before any of the 
payments in question were made, and that shows, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
payments were returned promptly by Ks bank. 
First Data also told our service that the funds were on hold because K didnt have an active 
bank account. But it told our service that matter was completed on 21 September 2020, its 
internal notes and emails to K acknowledge the funds were missing, and First Data later 
wrote to K confirming it had located the funds (which suggests they were missing rather than 
not received). And I havent seen anything from First Data to demonstrate that the funds 
were missing because they hadnt reached First Data.
And, when our investigator asked for an explanation of the delay, First Data simply said it 
had to wait for the funds to be returned and keyed on its internal systems. But, as Ive said 
above, Ive seen evidence from Ks bank to show that it had sent the money back to First 
Data.
So, on balance Im not persuaded that First Data returned Ks account balance as promptly 
as it should have. And First Data hasnt been able to demonstrate it wasnt at fault for 
delaying the return of Ks funds. That being the case, it should compensate K for the time K 
was deprived of its funds.
First Data told our service it received the £49,317.50 on 21 September 2020 and it contacted 
K on 29 September 2020 to say it was in the process of releasing the funds to K. Its difficult 
to say exactly when First Data ought to have released Ks funds by, but given it received 
them on 21 September 2020 and given K had been chasing First Data before this date, I 
take the view that it should have sent the funds to K on 21 September 2020. Because it 
didnt return the funds then, Im persuaded First Data should pay K compensation from that 
date up to the date it did send the money, to compensate K for the time it was deprived of 
the use of those funds.
Our investigator said she thought First Data released Ks funds on 22 December 2020. But 
First Data sent two statements that seem to show a payment of £49,317.50 being made on 4 
January 2021. And First Datas response to Ks complaint dated 31 December 2020 said it 
was in the process of returning the funds. So, on balance, the evidence suggests First Data 
returned Ks funds on 4 January 2021. Meaning the period it should pay compensation for is 
between 21 September 2020 and 4 January 2021.
In response to our investigators view, K said the compensation award didnt take into 
account the time it took First Data to locate the funds, and that K would have suffered 
serious harm, had it not been able to borrow money from its directors.
However, Im satisfied that, subject to a slightly extended timescale, the compensation our 
investigator awarded puts K back in the position it would have been in, had First Data 
returned Ks funds when it should have. While I accept K might have been put into difficulty, 
had it not been able to borrow money from its directors, fortunately it was able to mitigate its 
losses by borrowing the funds. And I cant reasonably award compensation for hypothetical losses K might have suffered, had circumstances been different.
And Im satisfied that an award of interest at the rate of 8% does in fact compensate K for 
the time it went without access to its funds because of an avoidable delay. Our investigator 
suggested interest for the period First Data caused delays, so that award covers the full 
period during which K was deprived of its funds. And K hasnt provided any evidence to 
show it suffered a loss greater than the compensation our investigator suggested. 
With regard to our investigators award of £250, it might help if I explain the parameters our 
service must operate under for such compensation payments. I do have the power to make 
an award for distress and inconvenience a customer experiences, but the issue here is that 
First Datas customer is K, a limited company. A limited company of course cant feel 
distress, and I cant make an award for any distress experienced by Ks directors or staff as 
they are not First Datas customer. 
However, I can make an award for any inconvenience K experienced as a result of its 
directors attention being diverted away from day-to-day duties. And I can see K had to 
chase First Data on a number of occasions. Im satisfied M experienced a reasonable 
amount of inconvenience as a result of poor service on First Datas part. So, to put matters 
right, First Data should pay K £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Data Europe Limited must pay K:
1. 8% simple interest on the balance of £49,317.50 from 21 September 2020 to 4 
January 2021; and
2. £250 in recognition of the inconvenience it caused K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman