DRN-4082889
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed her account. She would 
like a reason and the account reopened.
What happened
Miss H had an account with Barclays.
Miss H attempted to make a payment from her account on 6 September 2022. The 
transaction was declined. The account was blocked. 
On 16 September 2022 Barclays sent Miss H a notification that they would be closing her 
account with immediate effect.
Miss H also received a notification that the balance on her account of £880.86, had been 
transferred out of her account and she needed to attend branch to get her closing balance. 
This she did on 22 September 2022. She says as a result of the blocks and closures some 
direct debits were delayed which resulted in Miss H incurring charges.
Miss H was unhappy that she didnt know why the account had been closed, she had been a 
customer of Barclays for a long time. She complained to Barclays. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said they were entitled to close the account.
Miss H was unhappy with their response, so she complained to our service. One of the 
investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt acted unfairly when 
they had blocked and closed her account. She thought they had complied with their terms 
when blocking and closing the account with immediate effect so she didnt think any 
compensation was payable even though she acknowledged it would be frustrating to have 
ones account closed. She was aware that Miss H had other accounts, so she wasnt left 
with no banking facilities.
Miss H was unhappy with the view. She said she had been inconvenienced greatly by the 
closure of the account. In particular a refund from her credit card was delayed because of 
the closure of her Barclays account which meant she suffered a financial loss because the 
money wasnt earning interest. She also had to contact an investment company to notify 
them of a change of account, which wasted her time and was inconvenient. She wanted to 
know which term Barclays had relied on to close her account. She complained Barclays had 
given poor customer service.
She asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. In practice this means they have to monitor their 
customers accounts and may need to review an account at any time. While that is 
happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments.
I can see that in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Miss Hs account. 
Miss H says she is unhappy that Barclays have closed her account with immediate effect 
and wants to know the reason why.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Miss Hs account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed Miss Hs 
account without notice. For Barclays to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Miss H wanted to know the reason for the account closure. But Barclays doesnt disclose to 
its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell 
Miss H the reasons behind the account closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Miss H this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Miss H has said that she incurred financial losses as a result of the closure of her account. I 
appreciate what Miss H is saying but having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
Barclays did not make an error when they reviewed and closed Miss Hs account so it 
follows, I dont think that Barclays must pay compensation.
I appreciate Miss H has also said that Barclays offered poor customer service I have 
reviewed the file and I cant see that there was poor customer service although I appreciate 
that Miss H believes the account closure was unwarranted and unfair. I imagine that Miss H 
had to spend some time rearranging her financial affairs and that was inconvenient. But as 
Ive said as Barclays didnt make any errors, I cant hold them liable for this inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman