DRN-1745017
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a deposit he paid on a car.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr S visited a car showroom with a view to buying a new car. He says that 
he questioned the security aspect of the cars keyless option and was told this was not a 
problem. He paid a non-refundable deposit of £1,000 and then carried out some research 
which he says caused him to doubt the security of the car.
A few days later Mr S notified the dealer he didnt wish to pursue his purchase. He says he 
had phone call from the dealer who tried to reassure him concerning the cars security. He 
says the dealer agreed to put it in writing, but failed to do so. He says he was offered a 
secure pouch for the keys but he considered this defeated the point of a car with keyless 
entry which cost an additional £375.
It appears that the deposit could be used against another car, but he didnt wish to buy a car 
from the dealer  it seems he felt he could not trust the dealer. Mr S made a section 75 claim 
to Santander. It contacted the dealer which explained that the car Mr S wanted had to be 
obtained from another dealer and so it had paid for it in full. This was why it had taken a non-
refundable deposit. It also said Mr S had been to the ombudsman, though Mr S has 
explained that this was not the case.
Mr S complained and said he did not dispute the deposit was non-refundable, but that he 
had been misled by the dealer. He also expressed concern that the false claim he had been 
to the ombudsman had influenced Santanders decision. Santander rejected his complaint 
and so Mr S brought the matter to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommended the complaint be 
upheld. He said that the basis of the complaint centred on what was said about the keyless 
entry by the dealer and explained he had no available evidence to confirm what was or 
wasnt said. However, he noted Mr Ss testimony that he had been given an assurance that 
the keyless system was secure.
He said that he had to be satisfied that what was said was a false statement of fact intended 
to have contractual force rather than an expression of opinion, which is subjective and isnt a 
fact. He concluded that it was more likely to have been an expression of opinion and he 
thought it unreasonable to expect someone to provide total and conclusive assurance in 
respect of the issue of security.
He noted the articles Mr S had submitted about the effectiveness of keyless entry systems 
and thought there was a degree of subjectivity. 
Mr S didnt agree and said he was given a firm assurance that there wasnt a security issue 
and he relied on that when making the non-refundable payment. He also felt Santander had 
been influenced by the false claim that the matter had been decided by the ombudsman. He 
thought Santander had sought ways of rejecting his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no dispute that the chain is complete and so I have to consider if there has been a 
clear breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr S does not dispute he understood the 
deposit was non-refundable and he has not argued that should be the basis of his claim. 
His argument hangs on what he was told by the salesman in the lead up to his making the 
decision to go ahead with the purchase and pay over £1,000. It would seem that vehicle 
security was of particular interest to him given he refused to proceed with the purchase. It 
would appear that he didnt carry out research into the car he chose until after paying the 
deposit. That is regrettable. I believe it is reasonable to expect a consumer to carry out due 
diligence before making a major purchase.  
He says he relied on what he was told by the salesman that the car was secure. He has 
stated that this was a firm assurance. However, no car is 100% secure and it never has 
been. There are only degrees of security and Mr Ss concerns lie with the more recent 
technology of keyless entry which like old fashioned locks can be broken. Recent publicity 
shows that thieves have found relatively easy ways of breaking into such cars, but in my 
experience it has never been particularly difficult to break into a car if one wished to do so.
I cannot say that the particular model Mr S was planning to buy with the extra feature of 
keyless entry is such that it is so unsafe that the salesman could say that it wasnt secure 
when compared with most modern cars using keyless entry.  So I think that absent written 
documentation commenting on the keyless system any view expressed by the salesman can 
only be seen as subjective. I cannot conclude that it was a statement of fact which induced 
Mr S to buy the car. 
I have noted there was some confusion between Santander and the dealer regarding the 
false claim that Mr S had been rejected by the ombudsman, though I note nobody has 
specified which ombudsman. This may have had an influence on the decision making within 
Santander though it disputes that. However, as I think it was reasonable of the bank to reject 
Mr Ss claim, I do not believe this has any bearing on my conclusion.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman