DRN-1831411
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Money Boat) lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss M took out two instalment loans with Money Boat. Details of these loans are given 
below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Highest 
repayment
1 23/10/2018 07/12/2018 £250 £79.89
2 29/08/2019 outstanding £850 £266.45
Both loans were to be repaid over six monthly instalments. Loan 2 still has an outstanding 
amount that Miss M needs to repay.
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She sent a letter to both 
parties where she didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. She concluded that Money Boat didnt 
need to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loans to Miss M and didnt do 
anything wrong. 
Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicator. She says Money Boat should have seen that she 
had taken out many short-term loans when she applied to lend from it, and as a responsible 
lender shouldnt have agreed to lend to her. She says it should have seen the loans were not 
affordable.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Money Boat did a number of checks before it lent to Miss M. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Miss M had left over each month. Money Boat also used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Miss Ms financial situation at that 
time.
Miss M took out loan 1 in August 2018. This was the first time she had approached Money 
Boat for a loan and based on what she told it, the loan would have appeared affordable for 
her. In addition, it carried out a credit search. From this it would have seen that Miss Ms 
credit commitments were higher than she had declared. But as our adjudicator explained, 
the monthly repayment for loan 1 would have still seemed affordable. Looking at the credit 
check results, there was also nothing else at this stage that should have prompted Money 
Boat to carry out further checks. So, for these reasons, I dont think at this stage Money Boat 
needed to do anymore when it lent to Miss M. I dont think it was wrong to agree to this loan. 
There was a gap of around ten months before Miss M asked for loan 2. So, because of this 
period of time that had passed, I dont think I can consider the two loans as part of a chain or 
that Miss M had been reliant on credit with Money Boat at this point. Again, based on what 
Miss M told Money Boat about her finances, I think the repayments for loan 2 would have 
appeared affordable for her.  
I have also seen results from the credit check that Money Boat carried out at the time it 
granted loan 2. I dont think the credit search results or the other checks it carried out 
showed enough that I would have expected it to look into things further. The checks didnt 
show any other concerning information such as a reliance on other short-term loans, 
bankruptcy or any court orders. And on this occasion, it would have seen that the credit 
commitments she held were similar to what she had declared to them.
I acknowledge Miss Ms comments about her finances at the time the loans were granted, 
and that she had other financial commitments to repay. But I dont think it would be 
proportionate to expect Money Boat to have gone further and sought to independently verify 
what Miss M had said. And as the information Miss M and the credit search provided 
suggested that the loans were affordable for her, I dont think that Money Boat did anything 
wrong when it agreed to lend.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman