DRN-4441059
The complaint
Mr F has complained that FUND OURSELVES Limited (Fund Ourselves) gave him a loan 
without carrying out sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
Mr F was advanced one loan of £600 on 22 April 2022 and he was due to make four monthly
repayments of £297.60. Mr F had some problems repaying this loan, and
Fund Ourselves confirmed the loan was repaid on 24 July 2023.
Following Mr Fs complaint about the sale of the loan, Fund Ourselves considered the
complaint and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt think Mr Fs complaint should
be upheld. He concluded that proportionate checks had been carried out and there was no
indication that either Mr F was in financial difficulties, or the loan couldnt be repaid in a
sustainable manner. He also though that it was fair that Fund Ourselves removed the default
marker from the credit file because Mr F was attempting to set up a repayment plan.
Mr F didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Ive summarised
his response below, in addition he also provided a copy of a multi agency credit report.
Proportionate checks were not carried out before the loan was granted because Mr F 
had been approved for other loans shortly before this one.
When this loan was approved Mr F had opened 11 new accounts in the previous five 
months which ought to have raised questions about his finances and he was also 
utilising several credit cards.
At the time, his income was around £1,500 per month, albeit this was received as 
weekly payments and given the large amount of disposable income which was 
declared, Fund Ourselves ought to have questioned why the loan was needed.
Due to the likely vulnerable background of customers who take this sort of lending 
further checks should be carried out on each application.
On the same day this loan was approved, Mr F had made a number of other 
incomplete applications with Fund Ourselves for amounts ranging from £150 to £800.
Mr F doesnt consider he has been treated fairly considering the interest rate of the 
loan and the amount of disposable income that he declared.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event no later than 3 November 2023. 
Neither Fund Ourselves nor Mr F provided any further submissions for my consideration and 
so I have finalised the final decision along the same lines as the provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this, in a smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Fs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors
include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. As there was only one loan
granted, the adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mr Fs complaint and I agree.
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The main regulations can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) in section
5.2A. This is the relevant rules and guidance that Ive followed when considering whether a
proportionate check was carried out.
I also know that Mr F has raised concerns about how expensive this credit was and therefore
that would lead to further checks. CONC 5.2.A.20 is clear that the cost of the credit needs to
be factored into an assessment, along with, for example, the monthly repayment and the
capital sum borrowed. I can quite understand why Mr F feels, given the sector
Fund Ourselves operates in that further checks are needed before each loan  but that isnt
what the regulation says or allow, and Ive kept this in mind.
It is also worth saying that in July 2015, the industry regulator brought in a cost cap for this
type of loan. Simply put, it means a lender cant charge more than 100% of the capital sum
borrowed. In this case, the total Fund Ourselves could collect (including any late fees or
additional interest) was £1,200. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Fund Ourselves has
collected more than this and so it isnt, as far as I can see, in breach of the cost cap.
Mr F has also raised Principle 6 which says;A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
This is an overarching principle that all regulated firms need to adhere to and so is to be
used in conjunction with the relevant sections of CONC  in this case 5.2A. The regulator
has set out six core outcomes of principle 6, that a firm should try to achieve such as Where
consumers receive advice, the advice is suitable and takes account of their circumstances.
But ultimately, the product met Mr Fs needs for access to money fairly quickly and the
existence of payday loans isnt an automatic breach of Principle 6. Principle 6 doesnt negate
or mean that just because a loan is expensive it cant be provided, when there are other
rules such as the industry wide cost cap which must also be considered in conjunction with it.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint. Having considered all the information
provided, I am also concluding that Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks and so
it doesnt need to take any further action.
As part of his application, Mr F declared a monthly income of £2,700 and Fund Ourselves
says this income was electronically verified through a third-party tool provided by a credit
reference agency, in order to gauge its accuracy. Fund Ourselves says the results indicated
Mr Fs income was likely to be accurate.
I appreciate Mr F says his income wasnt as high as he declared, but that wasnt reflected in
the information he provided to Fund Ourselves. For a first loan Id only expect
Fund Ourselves to have verified his income, if there were grounds for doing so. For example,
it being given contradictory or unrealistic information  which doesnt appear to have been
the case here. So given this was early in the lending relationship I dont think it was unfair or
unreasonable of Fund Ourselves to have relied on what Mr F declared to it, or to have
realised that Mr F had given misleading information.
Mr F was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different variables, such as
outstanding debt, rent and travel. He declared these costs to be £890 per month. As this was
a first loan it was reasonable and proportionate for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the
information Mr F provided.
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr F provided, he had enough
disposable income to afford the loan repayments. Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for
Fund Ourselves to believe the loan to be affordable for Mr F.
Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search and it has provided a copy of the results it
received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
Fund Ourselves carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let
alone one to a specific standard. But what Fund Ourselves couldnt do is carry out a credit
search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.
The credit checks for example dont show the recent loan that Mr F says he had been
granted by another lender in the days before he took this one. This isnt unusual, because it
can take some time for information to appear on a credit report and in addition, the other
loan provider may not have reported it to the same credit reference agency that
Fund Ourselves used when carrying out its check. Fund Ourselves wasnt aware of this loan
and therefore couldnt factor it into its affordability check and as Ive said above, it was
entitled to rely on the information it received from both Mr F and the credit reference agency.
Having looked at the results, there wasnt anything that I can see that wouldve led
Fund Ourselves to have either declined or have prompted it to have carried out further
checks and Ive explained why below.
It knew that Mr F wasnt insolvent through a County Court Judgement or through any other
type of insolvency. It also knew that Mr F didnt have any accounts enter delinquency withinthe last 12 months, one account was defaulted between 12 and 36 months before the loan
was approved. It was also told that Mr F had a total of 12 active credit accounts and owed
other creditors a total of £3,453.
Fund Ourselves was aware that in total, over the last six years, Mr F had defaulted on eight
accounts. The majority of these were defaulted in 2018, so it would seem that around four
years before the loan was advanced Mr F found himself in a difficult position.
The most recent default was recorded around two years before this loan was approved. In
some situations, the number of defaults that Mr F had visible on his credit file could be a
prompt to carry out further checks, but as the defaults, were from some time ago, I dont
think in this case, for a first loan that Fund Ourselves wouldve been overly concerned with
them, as it wasnt at the time a reflection of how Mr F may repay his loan.
Fund Ourselves was aware of a number of credit cards that Mr F had  at least seven. Two
of them were within a couple of pounds of the credit limit whereas there were other cards,
that had a much smaller balances in proportionate to the limit or in some cases no balance
at all. The balance of these cards came to £2,246  which was the majority of the total debt
that Mr F had.
Fund Ourselves received information that Mr F had potentially two loan accounts
outstanding, one was costing £30 per month and the other was costing £88 per month.
Given the relatively small monthly repayments, its possible these were either high-cost
credit loans, instalment loans or home credit loans. I cant tell from the credit report, but I
dont need to speculate here, because I dont think it makes any difference.
And I say this because while there was some historic data on the credit file, there wasnt any
recent data that suggested that Mr F was either over indebted, reliant on these types of
loans or was having problems managing his finances. The credit search results, could be
relied upon.
I can see from the information Fund Ourselves has provided, that on the day this loan was
advanced, a number of loan applications were made by Mr F with requests for amounts
ranging from £75 to £400. However, the information provided by Fund Ourselves doesnt
show these loans were denied, instead they appear to have been left incomplete. This
means, as far as the information provided shows, no declined reason was given and
therefore no affordability assessment was likely undertaken by Fund Ourselves.
I dont think, on its own, that a number of incomplete applications wouldve led
Fund Ourselves to conclude further checks were needed. This is because it didnt decline
the applications and as far as it was concerned Mr F was just deciding how much to borrow
and or how much each loan may cost.
There also wasnt any evidence from the credit check that wouldve led it to have conducted
further checks or to have declined the application. There also wasnt to suggest that Mr F
was likely having current financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be
unsustainable for him.
This also means, that I dont yet think it had reached the point in the lending relationship
where Fund Ourselves wouldve concluded it needed to have verified what Mr F was telling
it. I appreciate that Mr F has provided copies of his bank statements. But in this case, taking
account of size of each payment, what Mr F declared it wouldve been disproportionate for
Fund Ourselves to have viewed them.
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before the loan was approved -
which showed Mr F could afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im also
satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Mr F declared about his income and
expenditure at the time, even though it has since become clear that the information he
provided Fund Ourselves may not have been entirely accurate. And there also wasnt
anything else to suggest the loan would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him.So, I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong when it approved the loan for Mr F and
it therefore follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
Default
After the complaint was referred here, Mr F notified the Financial Ombudsman that
Fund Ourselves had recorded a default on his credit file  and a screen shot of Mr Fs credit
file was provided by him, showing the default was still being recorded as of at least
May 2023.
Fund Ourselves says due to arrears on the account, it sent a default notice on 
6 September 2022. And it has provided a copy of an email that was sent to Mr F explaining that a 
default notice had been issued and that this was his last chance to try and bring the loan account
into order.
And I can see from emails Fund Ourselves had previously provided, that Mr F was in contact
with it during the course of September 2022, which included providing income and
expenditure information and its clear from the emails that Mr F wanted a repayment plan set
up and to avoid a default being recorded on his credit file.
A repayment plan was set up on 22 September 2022 but Fund Ourselves says this was a
day after the account had defaulted. Fund Ourselves has explained though that it could see
that Mr F wanted a plan and was trying to get it sorted, and this why the default was asked to
be removed from his credit file.
Fund Ourselves, has since confirmed, that a request was made to the credit reference
agency on 16 May 2023 to have the default removed. Fund Ourselves did this because it
could see that Mr F was attempting to set up a repayment plan at the time, albeit one wasnt
set up by the deadline.
The default record ought to now have been removed from Mr Fs credit file, given the
amount of time that has passed since Fund Ourselves made the request. I consider this to
be fair and reasonable and therefore Fund Ourselves doesnt need to take any further
action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision and which can be found above. I 
still think, Fund Ourselves carried out a proportionate check before it granted the loan and 
the checks showed the loan to be affordable. 
Fund Ourselves has asked for the credit reference agencies to remove the default from 
Mr Fs credit file and this was fair and the right course of action for Fund Ourselves to have 
taken. Fund Ourselves doesnt need to take any further action in relation to the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman