DRN-1662814
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that ME Legal and Financial Limited, trading as 
Mortgage.Claims, took too long dealing with a claim for a mis-sold mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B originally instructed Mortgage.Claims to look into a possible claim for a mis-
sold mortgage. But the instruction was made in a sole name against a joint named 
mortgage. Mortgage.Claims became aware of this after receiving paperwork from the 
mortgage provider, and they asked for Letters of Authority (LOA) from both Mr and Mrs B.
Mortgage.Claims didnt send the joint LOAs to the mortgage provider, and they didnt realise 
this until the LOAs were due to expire. So they had to ask Mr and Mrs B to sign new LOAs. 
Mortgage.Claims cant show they sent these new LOAs to the mortgage provider either. But 
Mortgage.Claims did review the claim based on the original information theyd received from 
the mortgage lender; and they said there wasnt enough to show Mr and Mrs B had been 
mis-sold a mortgage. So they didnt proceed with the claim.
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the length of time it took Mortgage.Claims to tell them 
they didnt have a valid claim. Theyre also unhappy about the lack of communication they 
received. Mortgage.Claims admitted they couldve done better and offered Mr and Mrs B £75 
compensation for the this. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and brought their complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service).
Our investigator agreed that Mortgage.Claims couldve done better. But she didnt think the 
outcome wouldve been any different if Mortgage.Claims hadnt delayed the claim, and had 
kept Mr and Mrs B updated. So she though the £75 offered was reasonable for the 
frustration the delays caused Mr and Mrs B. She didnt think Mortgage.Claims needed to do 
anything more.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They didnt think the investigator had made any ruling against 
Mortgage.Claims for the 4 serious errors of administration which they admitted. They feel 
that we should penalise [Mortgage.Claims] strongly for their actions, and they feel £500 is 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I would firstly like to say that the investigator referred to this being a claim for mis-sold PPI 
linked to a mortgage. But, from looking at the evidence and Mortgage.Claims website, this isnt the case. Mortgage.Claims consider claims for potentially mis-sold mortgages. This 
distinction is important because there is a different claims process for a mis-sold mortgage 
claim, and the August 2019 deadlines for making new PPI claims does not apply.
Its not in dispute that Mortgage.Claims couldve done better, or that theyve admitted what 
Mr and Mrs B refer to as four serious errors of administration. Ive referred to these in the 
background to this complaint (above) so I wont repeat them here. As the disagreement is 
now about what is fair compensation, my decision will concentrate on this.
I would also like to make Mr and Mrs B aware that its not the role of the Claims 
Management Ombudsman to punish financial businesses. This is only something the 
regulator can do. We look at any poor service and the impact of this. Where possible well 
tell a business what to do to put things right  putting the customers back in the position they 
wouldve been in had the poor service not happened. Well also look to compensate the 
customers for any trouble and upset they may have been caused.
Mortgage.Claims werent able to progress the claim for Mr and Mrs B because there wasnt 
enough evidence to show their mortgage had been mis-sold. This decision was based on the 
paperwork theyd received from the mortgage lender, which had been redacted for the 
second applicants details. Had they submitted the joint LOAs to the mortgage lender, then 
Mortgage.Claims wouldve received the unredacted details. But Ive seen nothing to show 
me that this wouldve made any difference to the decision not to progress the claim.
Mr and Mrs B were frustrated by the delay in finding out the claim wasnt going ahead, but if 
Mortgage.Claims hadnt delayed then the outcome would still have been the same. And Mr 
and Mrs B are still able to progress their claim themselves, or through another company, if 
they so wish. So I agree that the £75 offered by Mortgage.Claims was reasonable 
compensation for the frustration caused to Mr and Mrs B by the delays. Its now for Mr and 
Mrs B to decide whether to accept this or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about ME Legal 
and Financial Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman