DRN-3090531
The complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) did not properly allocate payments to his credit agreement, incorrectly 
reported missed repayments on his credit file and failed to honour a compensation offer of 
£750 to resolve his complaint.
What happened
Mr J took out a credit agreement with VWFS in June 2017. In June 2020 Mr J took out 
another credit agreement with VWFS with repayments coming from a different bank account. 
In October 2020 Mr J noticed that his first agreement was in arrears and called to make a 
complaint as he had not changed any details for this agreement or cancelled his direct debit. 
Mr J noticed that the repayment for his first agreement had been taken from his new bank 
account but VWFS was unable to locate this repayment and advised Mr J to contact his 
bank.
A missed repayment marker was applied against Mr Js credit file for the September 2020 
repayment and Mr J made manual repayments for September and October 2020. Despite 
being advised by VWFS that the issue was resolved a further missed repayment marker was 
applied for Novembers repayment. Mr J made several calls to VWFS to resolve the matter 
and was promised call backs which did not happen. It was eventually discovered that the two 
agreements had been linked and only one bank account can be attached to one customer 
number.
During a call to VWFS Mr J was offered £750 to resolve his complaint. Mr J didnt accept 
that and requested £1000 to reflect the time and costs of dealing with the problems. This 
was referred by the call handler for further authorisation. On review of the complaint an offer 
of £350 was made in the final response letter as VWFS considered that this was fair and 
reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset caused. Mr Js credit file has now been amended 
and the matter is resolved but Mr J wasnt happy with the level of compensation offered and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that the offer made by VWFS was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. They thought that £1000 was more than this service 
would award in these types of cases. They didnt think that VWFS was obliged to honour the 
offer of £750 either.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not substantially in dispute and are known to the parties so I wont repeat them 
in detail in this decision as I have summarised them above. However, I have read all the 
information in full and considered everything afresh in coming to my conclusions. 
The key dispute between the parties is how much compensation is fair. VWFS accept that 
things went wrong and mistakes were made and considers that £350 is fair and reasonable 
to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr J on the other hand thinks compensation should be in the region of £1000 to reflect the 
number of calls and his time and effort in resolving this matter. Mr J says this was prolonged 
by VWFS not dealing with things as quickly as it should. Mr J is frustrated that he was 
offered £750 and then VWFS tried to suggest that this offer was never made. Mr J says that 
the problems with his credit file prevented him from making a mortgage application and he 
lost out on the stamp duty holiday as a result. 
I do understand why Mr J is unhappy with VWFS and I dont doubt that the situation has 
been stressful and upsetting for him. There has clearly been a delay in resolving the issues 
with Mr Js credit file and ensuring that his account was brought up to date. Mr J had not 
missed any repayments or changed any details and promptly brought the issue to the 
attention of VWFS.
I can understand why Mr J didnt want to make any mortgage applications whilst the credit 
file issue was still unresolved but I cant say on the evidence that I have that he lost out on 
deals or was unable to complete within the stamp duty holiday period. Any number of factors 
can influence a mortgage lending decision and completion of a property sale so I cant 
conclude that VWFSs delays are responsible for any financial loss here.
The awards we make are modest and this service does not punish business for errors or 
award compensation in the same way a court might. We look at what is fair and reasonable 
to compensate for the trouble and upset caused. In these circumstances I think £350 is fair 
and reasonable given the time Mr J spent trying to put matters right. Ive taken into account 
that matters were eventually corrected and there has been no lasting impact to Mr Js credit 
file.
I know that Mr J thinks that VWFS should honour the £750 offer it originally made. But I cant 
ask it to do that in circumstances where I consider £350 is fair and reasonable. 
For these reasons I think that the offer made by VWFS is fair and reasonable and I cant ask 
it to do any more.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman