DRN-3702722
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) wont refund all the 
money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr S made payments totalling £170,000 as part of an investment scam in mid-2019. He says 
that M&S didnt carry out the correct checks to protect him when processing the payments.
M&S accepted partial responsibility and reimbursed 50% of Mr S loss (£85,000). The bank 
acknowledged that it couldve done more to protect Mr S, but it said that he could also have 
done more to protect himself.
Mr S reported the scam to M&S in early October 2019, but the bank didnt begin an 
investigation straight away. M&S has paid Mr S £300 by way of compensation for this but 
says its delay has not caused Mr S a financial detriment because the receiving bank has 
confirmed that no funds remained in the beneficiary account to recover as at October 2019.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator concluded that M&S shouldve fully reimbursed Mr S £170,000 loss. M&S 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. It said that Mr S 
invested a considerable sum, so it wouldve expected him to carry out some due diligence. 
But he didnt do any independent research or make any precautionary checks to ensure 
what he was investing in was legitimate. In addition, he didnt receive any investment 
documents as you would expect and the returns he was promised were too good to be true, 
and this shouldve rung alarm bells.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 3 August 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
M&S is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr S has fallen victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. The last two payments Mr S made are covered by the 
CRM Code, and M&S has acknowledged that it didnt provide an effective warning during the 
relevant payment journeys  having looked at the warnings the bank provided, I agree that 
they were ineffective. But its argued that Mr S made the payments without a reasonable 
basis for belief that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payments were 
for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was 
legitimate.
So, Ive thought about what steps Mr S took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
investment opportunity.
Mr S says he was persuaded to invest after speaking to the scammer approximately six 
times over a two-week period (not face-to-face). He was told that his investment was 
protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and would provide returns of at 
least 14%, and he was given written information about the company he was investing in.
I havent seen copies of any communication between Mr S and the scammer, so Im unable 
to comment on how persuasive the scammer was. But Mr S invested a total of £170,000  
a not insignificant amount. And the promised return was unusually high. In the 
circumstances, I wouldve expected him to have carried out some independent research to 
check the legitimacy of the investment opportunity. But he doesnt appear to have carried out 
any checks or made any attempts to protect himself  for example, by:
attempting to meet a representative of the company he was investing in in-person at 
the registered offices.
ensuring he received appropriate documentation relating to his investment.
independently verifying that the company he was investing in was legitimate.
looking at reviews from previous and current investors.
checking the Financial Conduct Authoritys website.
seeking independent professional advice.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief in this case.
As M&S failed to provide Mr S with an effective warning and that failure is likely to have had 
a material effect on preventing the scam, but Mr S also lacked a reasonable basis for belief, 
he should be reimbursed 50% of the last two payments under the provisions of the CRM 
Code.
M&S has accepted that it couldve done more to prevent Mr S entire loss to this scam and, 
having looked at everything that happened, I agree that it ought reasonably to have 
prevented all three payments that Mr S made. But, as Ive set out above, I think Mr S 
shouldve done more to protect himself too in the circumstances, so I think its fair for him to 
bear 50% of the loss hes incurred.
M&S has already refunded 50% of Mr S entire loss, as I would expect it to. But its unclear 
whether the bank has paid Mr S any interest. If it has not yet done so, M&S should now pay 
interest at a rate of 8% per annum (because I think its likely Mr S would have used the 
money he lost to the scam elsewhere if he had not been defrauded, but I cant reasonably be 
sure what he would have spent the money on) from the date of each payment (because 
M&S ought reasonably to have prevented the loss) to the date of settlement. In responding 
to my provisional decision, I would be grateful if M&S could provide evidence that it has 
already paid the correct level of interest if it says that it has done so.
Finally, Ive considered whether M&S took reasonable steps to recover Mr S funds once he 
notified it of the scam in early October 2019, and I think its clear that it didnt. But the 
receiving bank has confirmed that appropriate and timely action on M&S part would not 
have led to the recovery of Mr S funds, so I dont think the banks error has caused Mr S 
financial detriment. And Im satisfied that the £300 compensation M&S has already paid     
Mr S for its error is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require the bank to 
do anything further in this respect.Responses to my provisional decision
M&S let me know that it has not yet paid Mr S any interest, but it is willing to do so at this 
stage, in line with my provisional decision.
In summary, Mr S made the following comments:
He believes that other victims of the same scam have been fully reimbursed by their 
banks, and he should be treated fairly and equally.
M&S has admitted failings in its control environment on several occasions. He has 
asked for call recordings to support this and would like to know if I have reviewed 
them.
He did somewhat investigate  he looked at the companys website and the company 
sent him materials which included brochures on the investment strategies they 
offered. A professional investor may have been able to validate that the investment 
opportunity was not credible, but he is not sure that a retail investor, with no 
knowledge of the industry and without the benefit of financial advice, would have 
been in the same position. What is reasonable due diligence expected of a retail 
investor when making an investment decision?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand, from what Mr S has said, that other victims of the same scam may have been 
fully reimbursed by their bank, and I appreciate that this may feel unfair to him. But it is my 
role to consider the merits of individual cases brought before me and decide what the fair 
and reasonable outcome is in all of the circumstances. 
I would like to reassure Mr S that I took all of the available evidence into account when 
reaching my provisional decision  including the conversations he had with M&S when the 
payments were made  and I concluded that the bank did not do enough to protect him from 
financial harm. I also concluded that Mr S did not do enough to protect himself from financial 
harm and I set out some of the due diligence I may have expected him to undertake before 
investing a large sum of money on the promise of unusually high returns. 
As M&S has accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has provided any new 
information or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision of 3 August 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that:
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plcs 50% refund of Mr S entire loss is fair and 
reasonable, but it should now pay interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
The £300 compensation Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has paid Mr S for 
its delay in investigating his fraud claim and attempting to recover the funds he lost to 
the scam is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman