DRN-2320367
The complaint
Mr B complains about the questions he was asked by Lloyds Bank PLC when he tried to 
transfer some money to an account held at a different bank, using the name and details of 
his wife.
What happened
Mr B said that he had been making a large transfer of money. This was going to an account 
he holds jointly with his wife, with a different bank. Mr B had input his own details, and not 
been able to complete the transfer, so he tried again with his wifes details. The payment 
was flagged by Lloyds for a security check. 
Mr B told us that he was then asked by Lloyds what his wife was doing with the money, and 
he was very unhappy about this. He refused to answer, and Lloyds didnt complete the 
transfer. Mr B said that Lloyds shouldnt be asking him what hes doing with his money. He 
wanted our service to look at this.
Lloyds said that Mr B had made a number of unsuccessful attempts to set up this payment, 
and he was transferring most of the money in his account. And Mr B deletes cookies and his 
browser history, which means Lloyds cant see that Mr B is using his own computer. So Mr B 
was making a payment to an account he hadnt paid before, and as far as Lloyds could see, 
was using a new or different device. Thats why it flagged this transfer for security checks. 
Lloyds said it asked Mr B to get in touch, and wanted him to answer some questions, which 
make up its security checks. This was to make sure that it was really Mr B making the 
payment, and that he was sure he wanted to go ahead and make the payment to an account 
he hadnt paid before. As part of this Lloyds asks questions about the purpose of the 
payment and what the payment is to be used for. Lloyds said it did all of this to keep Mr Bs 
money safe and to make sure he wasnt being coerced into making a payment.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought Lloyds had taken 
these steps to protect Mr Bs money. She didnt think it was unreasonable for this transaction 
to be flagged, given what Lloyds had told us. 
Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask the purpose of the 
payment either. Mr B had a number of failed attempts to make this transfer, and he was 
transferring most of the money in his account. She said she wasnt able to tell Lloyds not to 
ask this question in future. And she didnt think Lloyds had to do any more.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with Lloyds about this problem. Lloyds explained to Mr B 
on the phone why it was asking for this information. Its part of its standard security checks to 
ask what the reason for the payment is. It asks that to make sure that people arent being 
scammed. 
Thats not an unusual question for banks to ask. The same question forms part of the 
security checks for many banks.
Depending on the answer Lloyds receives, it will warn its customers about any possible 
scam that they might need to be aware of. I can hear that the call ended when Lloyds was 
explaining this to Mr B.
I understand that Mr B found this question offensive and intrusive. I know that Lloyds is 
asking for personal information. But I think that Lloyds has explained why it asked this. Mr B 
has told Lloyds that he doesnt think this is relevant to him, and he is well aware of the need 
for security and caution in dealing with his own accounts. Unfortunately, not all of Lloyds 
customers are in the same position, and many do need the additional advice and warnings 
that Lloyds has in place. I dont think that Lloyds has to change this.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman