DRN-2331188
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given misleading information by Central Investment Services 
(Scotland) Limited that led to him incurring a tax liability he would otherwise have avoided.
What happened
In 2017 Mr C was offered an assignment of half an investment bond belonging to his mother, 
which he would be able to surrender to generate around £133,000. His sister was assigned 
the other half. Central had advised Mr Cs mother on setting up the bond and, as a result, it 
was involved in discussions with Mr C and his sister relating to its assignment and surrender.
As part of these discussions the tax position was considered, and a suggestion made that 
Mr C make a one-off pension contribution to reduce the likely tax liability stemming from the 
chargeable gain generated by the surrender. Mr C says he was given to believe that the 
surrender of his share of the bond would lead to a personal tax liability of around £2,500.
Mr C (and his sister, whose circumstances are different and hasnt had cause to complain) 
went ahead with the surrender and subsequently committed his share of the money to 
several liabilities and purchases, leaving enough to meet the expected tax liability.
Unfortunately, when sometime later in October 2018 his tax return for the 2017/18 tax year 
was completed, a much higher liability of £16,000 was found to be due. As Mr C had already 
committed most of the money hed received from the bond, he had to take out a loan to meet 
the liability.
He complained to Central, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It didnt consider 
that it had formally provided advice to Mr C or been directly involved in the process of the 
surrender and the pension contribution.
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached a different 
conclusion. He felt it had been reasonable for Mr C to have relied upon information supplied 
to him in an email from Central that suggested that if he made a £20,000 pension 
contribution it would remove the tax charge. So, the investigator felt Central should pay an 
amount to Mr C equivalent to the difference between the expected £2,500 figure and the 
actual liability.
Central didnt accept this. It felt, in short, that Mr C had effectively already made the decision 
to surrender his assignment of the bond before considering the tax position, so the 
suggestion to make a pension contribution was simply an attempt to help him mitigate any 
liability that wouldve been generated in any event. And further, that no specific indication of 
the total liability had been provided because the discussions had occurred too early in the 
tax year for a firm calculation to be made.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He maintained that Mr C had suffered 
financial detriment because of the misinformation provided by Central.
Central maintained its position but offered, without prejudice, to reimburse Mr C the costs of 
the borrowing hed incurred to pay the tax liability, or alternatively to make a payment to him 
of £1,000.
Mr C didnt accept this offer. So, as the matter remained unresolved, it was referred to me to 
review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I agreed the complaint should be 
upheld but was of the view that a different amount of compensation should be paid. 
I said I was satisfied that Central had made a mistake and misinformed Mr C about the tax 
liability. And further, it had done so in such a way  through a lack of clarity and caveat  that 
it was reasonable for him to have relied upon the information in planning his affairs.
But in respect of compensation I didnt think it fair that Central should have to do as the 
investigator had suggested and meet the whole additional tax liability  the amount in excess 
of the £2,500. I said:
As Ive concluded that Central did make a mistake I must, as noted, look at what wouldve 
happened but for this mistake. So, in other words, what I think would most likely have been 
the outcome if Mr C had been told that it wasnt possible to put a definite figure on the 
liability until the end of the tax year, but there would be some liability in addition to the
£2,500, and perhaps as much as £16,000.
Mr C has indicated that if hed been aware the tax liability was going to be as high as it was, 
he wouldnt have proceeded with the surrender. I can understand why he might now say 
that. But I think the evidence shows that at the time he was, quite understandably, keen to 
access the money for a variety of purposes, including reducing debts.
From the outset Mr C was aware that the sum of money hed receive from the bond was well 
in excess of £100,000. So, as a higher-rate tax-payer, I think he wouldve been expecting, 
prior to any discussion with Central, that the surrender would generate a fairly significant 
liability, somewhere in the thousands. As such, I dont think that then being told from the 
outset that the liability could be as high as £16,000 would necessarily have been enough to 
put him off surrendering.
Overall, I think, on balance, that regardless of what Mr C might have been told about the tax 
situation he would ultimately still have gone ahead with the surrender. In other words, I dont 
think the surrender was contingent upon a particular level of tax liability.
But if Mr C had surrendered with an expectation of a higher tax liability, what would he done 
to make provision for dealing with that tax liability? This is where the matter becomes 
somewhat speculative. Undoubtably he wouldnt have left himself needing to take out a loan 
to pay off the liability.
But if he had held back more of the surrender proceeds to pay the liability, or not made the 
pension contribution, he wouldnt have been able to pay off as much of his liabilities. Or he 
may have taken steps to mitigate the liability in some other way  perhaps by deferring the 
surrender or assigning to his wife. Either way, the misleading information provided to him by 
Central robbed him of the opportunity to consider and maybe benefit from alternatives.
That said, Im also conscious of the points Central has made about tax liability being 
something that wasnt entirely avoidable, and also the benefits and tax savings that the 
surrender and pension contribution has brought for Mr C. As such, I dont think that a refund of the entire amount that became due for Mr C above the £2,500 is a reasonable outcome, 
as I think he would be unfairly enriched by it.
There is an argument that, given the inevitability of the tax liability, his loss is simply one of 
lost opportunity and expectation. So, a payment to compensate for this, such as that offered 
by Central, would be a fair outcome.
 
But I think given the complexity of the situation and speculation about what Mr C might 
otherwise have done, its fair that Central pay half the amount suggested by the investigator, 
which by my calculation is a sum of £6,802.93.
Central responded to my provisional decision to say, in brief:
If it had been formally engaged by Mr C for tax advice it wouldve prepared a report 
and charged a fee. And it would have happily compensated Mr C for any flaw with 
that advice.
It reluctantly accepted my judgement that it had acted incorrectly, but it had been a 
genuine attempt to help Mr C.
It wouldve been better off not helping Mr C and providing him with useful information 
concerning tax mitigation.
The calculations relating to the pension contribution were very complicated, with very 
fine margins.
There was considerable doubt around the financial detriment suffered by Mr C and 
the level of compensation.
The principle of indemnity meant that Mr C shouldnt recover more than his loss. My 
methodology for compensation would put Mr C in profit. The benefits of receipt of the 
money  the mortgage reduction, etc  hadnt been taken into account. 
Mr C was clearly always going to proceed with the surrender and wouldve incurred a 
tax liability in any event at some point. 
Mr C commented in response to my provisional decision, in brief: 
My findings were based on assumptions and unsubstantiated evidence from Central. 
But he had two undeniable pieces of evidence in the form of the two emails it had 
sent him.
On what basis had I concluded that half the tax liability should be refunded? Doing so 
didnt put him in the position he was before. 
Although he had used the money to reduce his mortgage and other liabilities, he 
hadnt needed to. The surrender was motivated more by his sisters needs and he 
wouldnt have instigated the surrender on his own, certainly not if hed been aware of 
the large tax bill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Central appear to broadly accept my findings that it acted incorrectly  albeit somewhat 
reluctantly for the reasons noted above  so I wont comment further in respect of my finding 
that the complaint should be upheld.
What remains in dispute is the form and level of compensation that should be paid to Mr C.  I note what Mr C has said about him not necessarily going ahead with the surrender of his 
assigned part of the bond if hed known what the actual tax liability was going to be. But I 
remain of the view that, more likely than not, he would still have proceeded. There were 
many benefits to him doing so and postponing the surrender wouldnt have removed the tax 
liability completely. Some level of liability would always have become due at some point.  
That said, key to Mr Cs decision to proceed wouldve been the opportunity to manage the 
surrender to reduce the tax liability. And its the loss of the opportunity to do so in a fully 
informed manner that my proposed compensation aims to address. 
I appreciate Central feels the proposal potentially over compensates Mr C and doesnt fully 
consider the benefits hes received from taking the surrender. And I accept that determining 
compensation in this case is not an exact science. My provisional decision noted the 
complexity of the situation and speculation about what Mr C might otherwise have done. 
But I think its reasonable to conclude that while the potential full tax liability wouldnt have 
been enough to stop Mr C from proceeding with the surrender, it was nevertheless 
sufficiently large for him to explore how it could be reduced and act to do so  which is 
precisely what he did in his discussions with Central. However, better informed I think he 
would still have proceeded but would likely have done so in a different way in order to 
reduce the tax liability to a figure lower than was eventually the case.
But exactly what things might otherwise have looked like is very difficult to determine now. 
For instance, if Mr C had known the liability was actually going to be much more than £2,500 
would he still have made the pension contribution? Or might he have staggered the 
surrender? 
Given the uncertainty, I think my proposed compensation reasonably reflects the complexity 
and speculation and uses a figure that may itself be somewhat speculative but nevertheless 
represents a fair compromise in all the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Central must pay Mr C £6,802.93 plus interest at 8% simple from the date he paid his 
2017/18 tax bill to the date of settlement of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Central 
Investment Services (Scotland) Limited to pay compensation to Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman