DRN-3221936
The complaint
Mr D complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) treated him unfairly in relation to a 
refund for cancelled flights booked using his debit card.  
What happened
Mr D made two payments on his NBS debit card to an airline Ill call F, one on or around 15 
August 2019 of £390, and one on 29 January 2020 of £604.18. Mr D says the payments 
related to return flights from Birmingham to the Isle of Man in mid-March 2020. 
F became insolvent in early March 2020 and the flights were cancelled. Mr D contacted NBS 
for help getting his money back, and a dispute was logged on NBSs systems for both 
payments on 6 March 2020.
NBS considered attempting a chargeback to reclaim the money for the cancelled flights, but 
decided not to do so because it wasnt happy with the level of detail Mr D had provided 
about the purchase. They closed the dispute on 19 May 2020 as a result. Mr D complained 
about this decision and received a reply from NBS on 20 July 2020 in which it said it had 
made no errors and upheld its decision not to proceed with a chargeback. It said it was too 
late now to attempt a chargeback even if he provided more information.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter. He examined the rules and 
guidance issued by the card scheme, Visa, for disputes about flights which had been 
cancelled due to the failure of an airline. He concluded NBS hadnt acted fairly in deciding 
not to proceed with a chargeback, because it already had enough information to satisfy 
Visas requirements. It hadnt needed the extra information it had requested from Mr D. Our 
investigator recommended that NBS treat Mr D as though it had successfully charged back 
the transactions in dispute.
NBS disagreed. It maintained that it needed the extra information it had asked for, and Mr D 
had not provided this. Specifically, it said it needed confirmation of the flights showing 
amounts and details including the passengers and the times and dates of the flights. It also 
said it needed details of any other purchases Mr D had made from F. NBS further said that 
the information Mr D had provided was contradictory and unclear and that it had wanted any 
attempt at a chargeback to be as strong as possible. They said that if Mr D didnt have 
documentary evidence then he could simply have given an explanation of what had 
happened.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services on a debit card, their card issuer can attempt to 
claim a refund of the payment(s), in full or in part, under the dispute resolution process 
operated by the card scheme to which the debit card belongs. Disputing a payment in this 
way is what is commonly known as a chargeback. Chargebacks are not guaranteed to 
succeed, and can be challenged by the other side to the dispute.
A consumer cannot demand that their card issuer attempts a chargeback, as this is not a 
consumer right. However, I would expect an issuer to attempt a chargeback as a matter of 
good practice, so long as the chargeback meets the criteria set out by the card scheme, and 
would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding.
When NBS was presented with Mr Ds request for help with his payments to F, it correctly 
identified that it would need to consider attempting a chargeback on the disputed payments. 
It logged disputes on its system for both, noting they were relating to the insolvency of F. On 
17 March 2020 a note was added to the system saying a text message had been sent to 
Mr D to request further info. 
An email was received later that day from Mr D with a copy of a communication from F dated 
29 January 2020. This referred to Mr D having cancelled two seats from a group booking in 
his name. It said the remaining balance had been amended to include the deposit already 
paid for two seats. It said £604.18 was the remaining balance, and confirmed that a 
payment for this amount had been taken from Mr Ds card and this meant the booking was 
now paid in full. The email went on to provide the details of the flights and requested Mr D 
confirm the names of all passengers by the following day.
NBS says this wasnt enough for it to go ahead with chargebacks on the transactions, so Ive 
examined the rules and guidance published by Visa. The rules in place at the relevant time 
said nothing about an invoice or booking confirmation needing to be provided, they said only 
that the issuer needed to provide certification that the services were not rendered by the 
expected date/time, and:
 A detailed description of the merchandise or services purchased, unless prohibited by 
applicable laws or regulations. This description must contain additional information beyond 
the data required in the Clearing Record.
As I understand it, NBS feels the information provided by Mr D didnt qualify as a detailed 
description, but as our investigator pointed out, Visa clarified what it meant by this in 
guidance it circulated in April 2020. The guidance was issued while Mr Ds dispute was still 
live, and gave an example of what Visa considered to be a detailed description of flights:
Flight from Dubai to New York
It seems Visa didnt require a very large amount of information for a description to qualify as 
detailed. It required far less than NBS was requesting of Mr D. The email Mr D forwarded 
from F to NBS on 17 March 2020 contained the following information:
The departure and arrival airports (BHX and IOM)
The dates and times of the flights
The remaining balance which had been paid for the booking
Confirmation that a deposit had previously been paid
The booking reference numberThe fact the booking was a group booking under Mr Ds name
In a covering email Mr D had noted:
please find below one [of] the booking confirmation, I cant find the booking confirmation 
of when I paid the deposit to F, this was about 300 odd pound, it was paid in august to them
NBS was aware that F had gone into administration and all flights had been cancelled, so it 
knew the booking wouldnt have been going ahead. It could also see the amounts paid to F 
on Mr Ds account statements, which was consistent with the narrative Mr D had given in his 
email. Ill note here that in its response to our investigator NBS quoted a part of the Visa 
rules which it said supported its point of view that Mr D needed to provide details of the 
passengers on the flight. The part of the rules NBS has quoted refers to the information Fs 
acquirer would have needed to provide to successfully challenge a chargeback. It doesnt 
say the issuer (i.e. NBS) needs to include this information as part of a chargeback, so I think 
it has unfortunately misunderstood the rules here.
In any case I think NBS had more than enough information to satisfy the Visa requirements. I 
can understand why it wanted more to increase the chances of the chargebacks being 
successful. And I do have some sympathy for its position, as the email from F didnt make 
the cost of the flights 100% clear and its important that a chargeback is attempted for the 
right amount.
But I would expect NBS to have proceeded with the chargebacks if there was a reasonable 
prospect of success, which I think there still was in this case. There was always a chance 
the chargebacks could be defended by Fs acquirer. If they were defended and the reason 
was due to missing information that NBS had asked Mr D to provide, then I think NBS would 
have been in a stronger position as it could at least say that it had done what it could. But it 
appears in this case to have held Mr Ds prospective chargebacks to a higher standard than 
a reasonable prospect of success, and I think thats resulted in him being treated unfairly.
I share our investigators view that this means NBS should treat Mr D as though it had gone 
ahead with the chargebacks for both disputed amounts, and been successful. In practice this 
means it should refund both amounts and pay compensatory interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ds complaint and order Nationwide Building 
Society to do the following:
Refund the disputed payments of £390 and £604.18.
Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the refunded amounts, calculated from the date 
Mr D provided enough information to proceed with the chargebacks (17 March 2020), 
to the date the refunds are made.  
I note Mr Ds account with NBS was closed between January and March 2020, so he will 
need to let NBS know where he would like the refunds to be paid to.
*If NBS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman