DRN-3869033
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires hasnt provided 
a sufficient explanation for errors it made in calculating her monthly payments over the life of 
three mortgages shes held with it.
What happened
In May 2019, Birmingham Midshires wrote to Ms A in relation to three mortgages she had 
with it, including one that shed redeemed. It explained that it had identified an error in how it 
had been calculating her monthly payments.
On all three, Birmingham Midshires had asked for less than it should have overall. This 
meant that Ms A had a higher balance owing on the two mortgages that were still running 
than she would have if shed made the repayments Birmingham Midshires should have 
asked for.
To put this right Birmingham Midshires said it would reduce her balance by the difference 
between these amounts (i.e. what she owed vs. what she should owe). And for the months 
that it had asked for a higher amount than it should have it, Birmingham Midshires said it 
would pay Ms A interest at a rate of 8% on the difference between what she paid and should 
have paid.
For the one remaining mortgage affected which was redeemed in 2014, 
Birmingham Midshires sent Ms A a cheque, with the redress. It calculated how much less 
Ms A would have owed when she redeemed her mortgage if shed made the payments it 
should have asked for and applied interest at a rate of 8% on this amount. Ms A asked for 
more information about the review and why there were errors in the calculations.
In April 2020, Birmingham Midshires provided Ms A with a detailed breakdown of the 
discrepancies on the three affected mortgages  this set out the reason for the discrepancy 
and the amount Ms A had been overcharged or undercharged.
Ms A remained unhappy and didnt think shed been given a sufficient explanation or 
compensation. Ms A also said that shed had payment difficulties in the past including 
needing to take payment holidays, and it was stressful not knowing what had happened.
Birmingham Midshires didnt uphold Ms As complaint, it said it hadnt received all the letters 
from Ms A that shed referred to, and that it had put matters right in relation to its calculation 
errors. It also said, in reference to Ms As points about having struggled with repayments in 
the past, that as it had asked for less than it should have overall this wouldnt have adversely 
affected her at the time.
When Ms A complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint in part. They 
thought Birmingham Midshires had provided Ms A with the information shed asked for and 
put matters right in relation to its calculation errors. But they also recommended 
Birmingham Midshires pay Ms A £200 compensation in recognition of how long it had taken 
Birmingham Midshires to provide Ms A with the detail she had asked for.
Birmingham Midshires accepted this, but as Ms A didnt agree the case was passed to me 
for consideration by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 December 2022  in summary I agreed 
Birmingham Midshires had put right any financial loss caused to Ms A as a result of its error 
and that it would be fair for Birmingham Midshires to pay Ms A £200 compensation. I also 
shared what I thought Ms A was referring to in relation to her points around her previous 
difficulty making payments, why I didnt think the calculation issue would have made her 
financial problems worse at the time, and invited any further comments.
Birmingham Midshires agreed with my provisional decision, but Ms A did not. She said I 
hadnt fully addressed her complaint but didnt clarify what she thought I hadnt addressed or 
provide any new information by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think the £200 compensation Birmingham Midshires is now offering is 
a fair resolution to this complaint, Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Birmingham Midshires made an error in how it calculated the monthly 
payments Ms A needed to make on three of her mortgages with it.
Birmingham Midshires has explained that this was due to changes it had made to its 
systems. Essentially this was caused by incorrect interest-bearing balances being used to 
recalculate payments following certain amendments made to the accounts. This mostly 
happened when the Bank of England base interest rate changed as Ms As mortgage 
interest rates were linked to this.
In the breakdown provided to Ms A in April 2020, the column called mortgage account 
event explains the reason for the discrepancy on each occasion, and the table also shows 
the mortgage payment difference. So, I think Birmingham Midshires has provided Ms A with 
a sufficient explanation for what caused the discrepancies and to show how it calculated the 
redress to put matters right. I think Birmingham Midshires letters in May 2019 explained the 
logic behind how it would be putting matters right, which for the avoidance of doubt I agree is 
a fair way to do so.
Birmingham Midshires has confirmed to Ms A that this issue had been identified as part of 
an internal review. So, I think its answered her questions about whats happened in relation 
to this issue. But I agree that it took too long to do this and that has been stressful for Ms A. I 
appreciate Ms A wanted to understand what had happened and to have reassurance that 
the right steps had been taken to address the issue. Birmingham Midshires has agreed to 
pay Ms A £200 compensation and I think this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
Ive considered Ms As points that shed had difficulties meeting her payment obligations in 
the past and needed to take repayment holidays. I think Ms A is referring to the payment 
holidays she had in late 2006 on one account, and possibly when Ms A asked for a payment 
holiday in July 2007 which was declined. As Ms A hasnt said that she was referring to 
another occasion, Ive considered her point in relation to these. Having done so, I dont think 
the calculation errors that are the subject of this complaint would have made her situation 
worse at the time, this is because she was being asked to pay less per month (rather than 
more) as part of this error in calculation.Putting things right
I understand Ms A may not have cashed the cheque she received and so if 
Birmingham Midshires hasnt already done so it should pay Ms A the remainder of the 
settlement in addition to the £200 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires should pay 
Ms A £200 compensation in addition to paying her anything outstanding from the account 
recalculations if Ms As initial cheque hasnt been cashed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman