DRN-4383351
The complaint
Mr Q has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC lodged a fraud-related marker on the industry 
fraud database, CIFAS, and closed his account.
What happened
In 2022 after receiving a fraud alert from another financial institution, Barclays returned 
£1,500 and blocked Mr Qs current account. They asked him to provide evidence about the 
payments received into his account, but he denied knowing whod sent him the money and 
assumed this had been in error.
Barclays felt they had sufficient evidence to lodge Mr Qs record with a fraud marker at 
CIFAS. Still unhappy and denying Barclays accusations, Mr Q brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and believed this showed that it was most likely Mr Q 
knew whod sent him the funds and spent them immediately after receipt. She wouldnt ask 
Barclays to do anything else.
Mr Q felt this was unfair and remained convinced the money had been sent in error. He also 
denied accusations he was involved in any scam. Mr Qs complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
So Barclays must be able to provide clear evidence that an identified fraud was being 
committed and Mr Q was involved. Im satisfied theyve done this here. I say this because:
Ive seen evidence about the funds paid into Mr Qs account. These were the result 
of someone being scammed. Theres no doubt this money wasnt his.
However shortly after receipt of the funds, Mr Q transferred two amounts (£1,000 on 
5 September and £500 on 27 September) out of his account. I note Mr Q says he 
couldnt have realised these funds werent his as he made regular transfers, but 
evidence shows he kept a close watch on his account. This suggests to me he was 
expecting these funds.
Mr Q believes this money was sent to him in error. However the claim was that 
someone was scammed to send money for car hire. I can see there are other 
references to cars on Mr Qs bank statement.
Additionally as the transaction was checked to confirm payee, I think its most 
unlikely that someone managed to send three separate amount (£10, £990 and 
£500) in error. In fact it looks as if someone wanted to ensure the payment was going 
to the right place and made an initial transaction for £10 before sending the rest of 
the money.
Barclays tried numerous times to find out from Mr Q what the source of the funds 
were as they wished to check whether this had been fraud or not. They found it 
difficult to reach Mr Q. It was only after a CIFAS marker was added to his record and 
his account was closed, and Mr Q felt that he wasnt able to get his outstanding 
balance, that Mr Q got in touch with Barclays.
Barclays closed Mr Qs account as they believed he was in breach of their terms and 
conditions. Ive seen no evidence to contradict this.
I can see that Mr Q was able to access his outstanding funds in June 2023 after providing 
suitable ID to Barclays.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence to lodge the CIFAS marker and 
close Mr Qs account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Qs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman