DRN-3091642
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Ulster Bank Ltd (UBL) applied an early repayment charge 
when they redeemed their mortgage. They are also unhappy with the information UBL gave 
around the circumstances under which the charge could be refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with UBL in November 2016. They were advised to take 
this mortgage by a third-party broker. The mortgage had a fixed rate of interest until October 
2018. If the mortgage was paid off before the end of this interest rate deal, an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would be applied.
Mr and Mrs F sold their property and redeemed their mortgage with UBL in November 2017. 
As a result, they incurred an ERC. Theyve said they were told by UBL that, if they took out 
another mortgage within six months, the ERC would be refunded. Theyve said they were 
given the impression this would be a formality. And theyve said they believed theyd qualify 
for a refund if they just had a new mortgage agreed in principle.
Mr and Mrs F applied for a self-build mortgage with UBL in April 2018. Theyve said they 
became aware at that point that they in fact needed to complete a new mortgage and draw 
down funds within six months of redeeming their previous mortgage in order to receive an 
ERC refund. Their application for a self-build mortgage was ultimately declined.
Mr and Mrs F complained to UBL as they were unhappy at having been charged the ERC. 
They said their intention had always been to sell their existing property and build a new one. 
So, they questioned the recommendation of a mortgage that would result in an ERC. 
Theyve also said they werent given clear enough information by UBL about needing to 
complete and drawdown a mortgage within six months of repaying their old one. They 
explained this was never going to be possible, given they had not appointed a builder or had 
the land for their new build formally signed over to them at the time they redeemed their 
previous mortgage.
UBL said it didnt think it had made an error. It said it didnt advise Mr and Mrs F to take out 
their original mortgage  this was done by a third party. So, it wasnt responsible for the 
advice given. And it felt the ERC had been applied correctly. 
Mr and Mrs F then asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our investigators 
looked into things but didnt feel that the ERC had been applied incorrectly.
Mr and Mrs F asked for their case to be reviewed again. As a result, it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2016, when Mr and Mrs F took out their 
mortgage with UBL. This confirms that they were provided advice by a third party. So UBL is 
not responsible for the recommendation made at that time and whether the mortgage was 
appropriate. This would be the responsibility of the third-party broker that provided the 
advice.
The mortgage offer explains that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid 
before October 2018. Mr and Mrs F sold their property and the mortgage was repaid in 
November 2017. So, I dont think UBL has acted incorrectly by applying the charge.
Mr and Mrs F have said that UBL didnt provide them clear information about the 
circumstances under which the ERC could be refunded. 
The mortgage offer explains that UBL will refund all or part of the ERC if:
(a) you complete a new mortgage on a different property with us at the same time as you 
pay off this mortgage, or within six months of the date when you do so; and
(b) the new mortgage is on the same terms as this mortgage and is for the same amount or 
more than the amount required to redeem this mortgage.
I think this information, given at the time the original mortgage was taken, is clear that in 
order to receive a refund of an ERC, the new mortgage would need to complete within six 
months of the previous one ending and the ERC being paid.
Mr and Mrs F have said they only became aware theyd need to complete and drawdown a 
new mortgage within six months of repaying their old mortgage when they applied for a new 
mortgage in April 2018. And until then they understood theyd only need to agree one in 
principle to receive a refund. Theyve said completing a mortgage in that time frame would 
not have been possible, because of the status of their self-build.
As Ive said, I think the information in the mortgage offer from UBL in 2016 was clear that a 
new mortgage would need to complete and not simply be agreed. And Id again reiterate that 
UBL was not responsible for any advice given at that time  as this was done by a third 
party. There are no notes of any further discussions between Mr and Mrs F and UBL 
between their first mortgage being taken in 2016 and their application for a replacement in 
April 2018. I accept that this doesnt mean there were no discussions. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest UBL told them that a refund of the ERC would be paid if a new mortgage 
was just agreed in principle.
But in any event, a replacement mortgage was neither agreed in principle or completed. The 
application for a replacement mortgage, which included borrowing more money than was 
owed under the original mortgage, was declined, as it didnt meet UBLs lending criteria at 
the time it was applied for. So even if UBL hadnt been clear about the circumstances under 
which an ERC refund would be due, and for the avoidance of doubt I think it was clear about 
this in the mortgage offer issued, I dont think this has caused Mr and Mrs F to incur the 
ERC. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think UBL has acted unfairly or incorrectly when 
applying the ERC. And while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, I 
cant reasonably require UBL to refund this fee.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman