DRN-3658567
The complaint
 A limited company and charity which Ill refer to as M, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is 
treating it unfairly by charging a fee for operating its bank account.  
In bringing this complaint M is represented by one of its directors  who Ill refer to as Mr S. 
   
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, M was incorporated in 2012. It had three business bank accounts with HSBC. 
Bearing the same name, a charity, which was connected to M but operated separately also 
had an account with HSBC. Ill refer to it as B. Bs account was known as a community 
account. It was specifically reserved for charities and HSBC did not levy a charge for its 
maintenance. 
In December 2019 Mr S wrote to HSBC with instructions to close two of the business 
accounts belonging to M. Mr S gave the bank details of the two account he wanted closed. 
He also instructed HSBC to close the community account belonging to B. HSBC did as they 
were instructed and closed the three accounts Mr S asked to be done.
In his closure instructions, however, Mr S did not list the third business account (the 
Account) that belonged to M. So, it remained open. HSBC has told us the Account was 
opened on-line in 2014 in the name of M, the limited company and since its inception it 
attracted a monthly maintenance fee. 
Mr S has told us that the instructions that he gave to HSBC in December 2019 came about 
as a result of a decision to restructure M and B. In particular, B had ceased to exist and 
following a change to Ms Articles of Association in 2020, M, assumed Bs role as a charity 
albeit operating as a company limited by guarantee. 
But after the re-structure, M continued to maintain the Account and HSBC continued to levy 
the monthly maintenance fee theyd always done. 
However, Mr S believed the continuation of the maintenance fee by HSBCs was unfair and 
so he complained to the bank. He said since M was now operating as a charity it should not 
be charged a fee for the operation of the Account. And to resolve the matter, Mr S wanted 
HSBC to stop levying the monthly fee and to refund the fees the bank had charged since M 
began operating as a charity. 
HSBC didnt agree. And they didnt think they were acting unfairly. They pointed out that 
Companies House records show that M is registered as a private company limited by 
guarantee. They said in light of that, M has to have a business account which attracts the 
monthly maintenance fee theyve been charging. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred Ms complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. She was satisfied the bank followed Mr Ss instructions and closed the 
accounts hed asked the bank to do  including the charitys specific community account 
which didnt attract a monthly charge. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He said - in summary: 
Because the Account belonged to M and M was the entity that continued after the 
restructure, the Account had to be kept open. 
The option to continue with the community account was not possible because the 
charity to which it was linked  B no longer existed.
But on the basis M  is now a charity, as banking experts when HSBC received his 
instructions in December 2019 they should either have assigned a new account to M 
to reflect the change in its operation or alternatively apply free banking to the Account 
to reflect that change. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr S gave clear instructions to HSBC in December 2019 regarding the three accounts he 
wished the bank to close. Im satisfied HSBC didnt do anything wrong when they followed 
Mr Ss instructions and closed the accounts he specifically indicated in his instructions. 
Its also clear, for the reasons Mr S has explained, that M did not wish to have the Account 
closed. Furthermore, and as the bank has explained, I can see from its records that the 
Account was opened with the bank in 2014 in M s name as a limited company. And indeed, 
from then onwards there was a monthly maintenance fee for its operation which Mr S does 
not challenge. 
Mr Ss main point which I note is that Ms purpose changed in 2020. In other words, that 
going forward it was to operate as a charity and it only had the Account in its name to 
maintain its operation. 
But the important point here seems to me to be that the Account was never one earmarked 
for charities. The community account was for a charity, but Mr S acknowledges the 
instruction he gave in December 2019 to close that account was the correct one given that it 
belonged to B which had ceased to exist. 
So, the question for me therefore, is whether after carrying out Mr Ss instruction, and left 
with the only remaining account  the Account in Ms name  HSBC should then have taken 
the further action Mr S believes they should have done in order to prevent the continuation of 
the monthly maintenance fee. More specifically, to grant M a new account which did not 
attract that monthly fee or to desist from charging the fee in light of the change in Ms 
purpose going forward. After considering this carefully Im not persuaded HSBC should have 
done so.Although Mr S has explained that M began operating as a charity following the restructure in 
2020, Ive seen no evidence HSBC was advised this change was due to take place. So, the 
Account reflected what the bank knew to be Ms status  that of a limited company operating 
a business account for which it was being charged a monthly maintenance fee.  HSBC were 
given no instructions to make any changes to it. And without such instruction I am not 
persuaded the bank was obliged to take any unilateral action along the lines suggested by 
Mr S. 
It follows that I do not believe HSBC has acted unfairly by continuing to charge the monthly 
maintenance fee associated with the Account. 
That is not to ignore Mr Ss point that M is now operating as a charity despite HSBCs 
observation regarding its status on Companies House records.  
I note that HSBC have accounts for charities. But I cannot compel HSBC to assign such an 
account to M. And in any case, it is not my understanding that such accounts are free from 
any charge. 
That being said, it doesnt seem to me unreasonable in light of the change in its purpose, 
that M should seek to apply for a new charity account so that HSBC can determine whether 
M meets the necessary criteria for it. 
In summary, I do not find that HSBC has treated M unfairly by its decision to continue to 
charge M, a monthly maintenance fee for the Account in spite of the change in Ms purpose. 
The bank was not obliged to substitute the Account for another when not only had it not 
been instructed to do so but it received no application from M for a charity account so that it 
could determine whether M is suitable for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman