DRN-2584333
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank trading as Yorkshire Bank (YB) closed his current 
account without warning shortly before Christmas. Mr S also complains that YB has reported 
a default on his credit file.
 
What happened
YB says that Mr S account balance regularly exceeded his agreed overdraft limit during 
2019. As a result, YB sent letters asking Mr S to bring his account back in line with the 
agreed limit. On 2 August 2019 YB sent Mr S a letter explaining that it would close his 
account unless his balance was brought back within the agreed limit and the position 
maintained. YB also said it would report its decision to the credit reference agencies. Mr S 
has explained he didnt receive YBs letter. 
In mid December 2019 YB closed Mr S account. At the point of closure, the account balance 
was around £130 above the agreed overdraft limit. Mr S complained that YBs decision left 
him in a difficult financial position shortly before Christmas. Mr S also said his account 
shouldnt have allowed him to enter an unarranged overdraft. 
YB responded around two weeks later and apologised for a delay in providing Mr S with a 
list of his regular payments. YB sent Mr S a cheque for £50. YB said it had sent Mr S a letter 
on 2 August 2019 that explained his account could close if he didnt take action. YB didnt 
agree it had made a mistake. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
YB had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to 
appeal and said his account had been brought back within the agreed overdraft limit each 
month when he was paid. Mr S also said YB had allowed him to go into an unarranged 
overdraft on many occasions. As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has told us he didnt receive YBs letter dated 2 August 2019 so wasnt aware of its 
intention to close his current account. Ive looked at the letter YB sent and I can see its 
correctly addressed, in line with the other letters it sent to Mr S. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, 
but Im satisfied YB did write to tell him it would close his account as it claims. YB has also 
sent us copies of other letters it sent Mr S asking him to bring his account balance back 
within the agreed overdraft limit. Im satisfied YB did make its position clear to Mr S in the 
months leading up to its decision to close his account. 
In response to the investigator, Mr S pointed out that he did bring the account balance back 
within the agreed overdraft limit each month when he was paid. The statements confirm 
thats the case. But YBs letter dated 2 August 2019 said Mr S needed to reduce the balance 
of his overdraft to bring it back within the agreed limit and maintain that position. Ive 
checked Mr S statements from August 2019 and can see that the balance continued to 
regularly exceed the overdraft limit. So, whilst Mr S did bring the balance back within the 
agreed limit, that position wasnt maintained. Im satisfied YBs decision to close Mr S 
account was fair and in line with the information it sent. 
Mr S has asked why his account was allowed to go into an unarranged overdraft position. 
YB has told us there was no agreed unarranged overdraft, and Mr S wasnt charged for 
going over his limit. But YBs terms say funds may be made available on a temporary basis if 
a payment request is made. And, I think YB could reasonably have expected Mr S to know 
what his overdraft limit was and make contact if he was having financial difficulties that 
meant he couldnt maintain his balance within it. I havent found YB made an error by 
approving payments Mr S asked it to make. 
In response to the investigator, Mr S says he was in a payment plan during the period in 
question. YB has confirmed Mr S had a payment plan in place that ended in November 
2019. The payment plan was for £10 a month, but the statements Ive seen show the 
balance continued to regularly go over the agreed limit during the time the plan was active. I 
havent found that the payment plan Mr S was part of was a barrier to YB closing his account 
in December 2019 or that it treated him unfairly by doing so. 
In line with the account terms and YBs letter, once the account was closed that information 
was reported to the credit reference agencies. I understand why Mr S is concerned but Im 
satisfied YB can report the circumstances under which it closed his account. 
I appreciate that the timing of YBs decision, shortly before Christmas, caused Mr S 
difficulties. But as I havent found YB made an error by closing his account and Im satisfied 
it provided a warning of its decision along with requests that he maintain the account within 
the agreed overdraft limit, Im satisfied its decision was fair and reasonable. 
YB paid Mr S £50 for a delay in sending him a list of regular payments and I think thats fair 
in all the circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied YB dealt with his 
complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman