DRN-2857754
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs L have complained that they had to pay a month of their mortgage with Lloyds 
Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows Bank, referred to here as SWB) on Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR) because a product switch didnt go through quickly enough.
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, would like SBW to refund the additional 
£1,892 he and Mrs L had to pay on SVR.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs L have a mortgage with SWB. It was on a product at a rate of interest of 
1.29% which was due to revert to SVR on 1 December 2019. SWB wrote to Mr C and Mrs L 
on 2 October 2019 to advise them of this, and that the mortgage would automatically switch 
to SVR (4.24%). SWB explained that if Mr C and Mrs L wanted to switch to a new product, 
theyd need to do this through a mortgage adviser. SWB provided the website address 
where Mr C and Mrs L could get further details about available products, as well as 
information on how to find an independent financial adviser (IFA).
Mr C and Mrs L contacted an IFA and were told on 27 November 2019 that, after a phone 
call, the product switch application could be submitted. The phone call took place on Friday, 
29 November 2019.
On 29 November 2019 SWB wrote to Mr C and Mrs L with details of the product switch, 
including a new mortgage offer. The letter confirmed that the product switch would be 
effective on the first day of the month after the signed (and witnessed) acceptance of the 
new mortgage offer was received.
On 2 December 2019 Mr C asked his IFA if the product switch had gone through. In 
response, the IFA explained that Mr C and Mrs L needed to sign the mortgage offer, and that 
the switch hadnt happened in time for December. The IFA explained that it would go 
through in January 2020.  Mr C said that he needed it done this week but the IFA clarified 
that, although the documents would be sent over as soon as possible, SWB would not start 
the new product until 1 January 2020. The documents were sent over to Mr C and Mrs L by 
their IFA on 3 December 2019.
The product switch went through on 1 January 2020. Mr C and Mrs L had to pay SVR for the 
month of December 2019, which was £1,892 more than the monthly repayment on their new 
chosen product.
Mr C made two complaints. The first was that, despite him being an existing long-term 
customer who has paid substantial interest to SWB and having given notice that he and 
Mrs L wanted to switch products, SWB charged SVR for the month of December 2019. He 
thought this was unfair and that SWB should refund the difference between SVR and his 
new product to him and Mrs L, an amount of £1,892.
The second complaint was that he and Mrs L had relied on the IFA and SWB to provide 
them with clear information. Mr C said SWB hadnt made it clear enough that if a month end 
cut-off was missed, then a full month of interest at SVR would be charged. 
Mr C acknowledged that hed received information from SWB called Product Transfers & 
Contract Changes Hints and Tips which contained this information. But Mr C said that 
calling a document Hints and Tips hardly suggested that it was important enough to read. 
Mr C told SWB that he only reads documents that are identified by their labelling as 
important. Mr C also said that the information about when a product switch would come into 
effect was hidden at the bottom of the last page.
SWB didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr C and Mrs L brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where it was looked at by two investigators. Neither of them thought the complaint 
should be upheld. 
The first investigator was satisfied that the Hints and Tips document was sufficiently clear 
to explain that the new interest rate would take place with effect from the 1st of the following 
month after the signed and witnessed mortgage offer was received. He also noted that an 
example of how this worked was provided for clarity.
The investigator also noted that the IFA had advised Mr C of this in their email exchange on 
2 December 2019. 
Mr C didnt accept what the investigator had said and asked that his complaint be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. Before this could take place, the first investigator moved on from his role, 
and another investigator took over the case. He reviewed it afresh, but also didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
The second investigator was satisfied that the information provided by SWB was clear about 
when a new product switch would start. He noted that Mr C had said that if this had been 
brought to his attention sooner, hed have taken steps to have the application submitted in 
time. But in all the circumstances, the second investigator didnt think SWB had done 
anything wrong either.
Mr C still wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, Mr C says that SWB 
had already established that the information about when a product switch would start was 
important by including it I the Hints and Tips. However, Mr C maintains that it wasnt 
highlighted in such a way to bring it to his attention, because of where it was placed and 
because of what the document it was contained in was titled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as both the investigators who looked at 
this complaint. These are my reasons.
Its important to clarify first that SWB wasnt responsible for giving Mr C and Mrs L any 
advice about the product switch. The advice was given by their IFA. Im satisfied that the IFA 
would, or should, have known that the signed documentation needed to be with SWB before 
the end of November 2019 if the product switch was to go through for the month of 
December 2019. This is standard across the mortgage industry and isnt a condition specific 
to SWB.I note Mr C and Mrs L decided which product they wanted on 23 November 2019, and spoke 
to the IFA on 27 November 2019, when they were told that a telephone interview would be 
needed.
I can see from the email of 27 November 2019 from the IFA to Mr C that the application 
wasnt ready for submission at that time because further documents were needed. The IFA 
also explained that it was a regulatory requirement for there to be a telephone interview, 
which took place on 29 November 2019 (a Friday) with the application submitted the 
following day.
Mr C has argued that if the 29th had been earlier in the week, then the product switch would 
have gone through before 1 December, because thered have been time on 30 November (if 
it had been a weekday, rather than a Saturday) for it to be processed. So, Mr C, says, its not 
fair for him and Mrs L to have lost out simply because the 29th fell on a Friday.
But even if the 29th November had been, say, a Tuesday, this wouldnt have resulted in the 
product switch being completed before 1 December. Thats because SWB needed to have 
the signed and witnessed mortgage offer before the product switch could have happened.
Mr C says he didnt receive this from the IFA until 23 December 2019. Hes sent us the email 
he received from the IFA, but this is dated 3 December 2019, not 23 December, so I think 
Mr C is mistaken about when these were sent. But in any event, nothing turns on this, 
because by 3 December 2019 he and Mrs L were too late to for the product switch to be 
completed for the month of December 2019 in any event.
I can see from his emails that Mr C thought the product switch could be done in early 
December, with him and Mrs L only being charged interest for a few days. But that is not 
how SWB operates its product switches, as explained in SWBs Hints and Tips.
Given this, Im satisfied SWB hasnt treated Mr C and Mrs L unfairly by applying SVR to the 
mortgage for the month of December 2019. Thats because the application wasnt completed 
in time.
It was the responsibility of Mr C and Mrs Ls IFA to explain the timescale to them and the 
implications of not completing the product switch before the end of November 2019. I dont 
know on what date Mr C and Mrs L first instructed their IFA, but from the available evidence, 
it seems that this might have been left until the last week before the product expired. If Mr C 
and Mrs L think they werent given suitable advice about this by their IFA, thats something 
theyll need to raise with that business.
Im also satisfied that the information in the Hints and Tips document is clear about when a 
product switch will take effect. I appreciate Mr C doesnt think this was sufficiently drawn to 
his attention  and hes explained that he only reads documents that are marked as 
important. But the information was provided and if Mr C and Mrs L chose not to read it, then 
thats not something for which I can hold SWB responsible. 
I appreciate Mr C thinks its unfair, as a long-standing customer, for him and Mrs L to be 
charged interest at SVR for a month. But I dont think SWB has treated them unfairly, or 
differently from any other customer  long-standing or not  in the same circumstances. In 
fact, it would be unfair for SWB to grant Mr C and Mrs L a concession of an interest refund 
which isnt available to other customers who also dont complete their product switch until 
after the 1st of the month. So although I acknowledge Mr C will be disappointed, I dont think 
SWB has done anything wrong, or acted unfairly, taking into account all the circumstances.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman