DRN-3735640
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to 
him. 
What happened
Madison lent Mr D two loans  loan 1 was lent in August 2019 for £2,000 with 24 monthly 
instalments of £121.27. Mr D fully repaid loan 1 in December 2019. Madison then lent Mr D 
loan 2 in January 2020. Loan 2 was for £1,500 with 24 monthly instalments of £116.45. Mr D 
had difficulties repaying loan 2 and it has been sold to a debt purchaser.
When Mr D complained to Madison, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he referred it to this 
service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt think 
Madison did anything wrong when it lent either loan.
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
Loan 1
Ive considered whether Madison carried out sufficient checks before lending loan 1. The 
information Madison has provided showed that it asked Mr D about his monthly income and 
expenses and searched his credit file.
Mr D declared his income as £1,500 and his monthly living costs as £985.09 including credit 
commitments. Mr D declared the purpose of the loan as debt consolidation. The results of 
the credit search showed Mr D had a mortgage which he was paying around £318.
This was Mr Ds first loan with Madison and the loan repayment was a small portion of his 
declared monthly income. Looking at his expenses, including his credit commitments, hed 
have sufficient disposable income to repay the loan over the term. So, I think the checks 
were sufficient and Madison wasnt wrong to lend this loan to Mr D.
Loan 2
Looking at the circumstances around the lending of loan 2, Mr D borrowed this loan within 
two weeks of repaying loan 1. In his application, he said the reason for the loan was debt 
consolidation, like loan 1. 
Mr D declared that his monthly income was £1,700 and his living costs including credit 
commitment was £850. The results of the credit search showed Mr Ds borrowing had 
reduced compared to the time of loan 1. And considering Mr Ds increased income, hed 
have sufficient disposable income to repay the loan over the term.
Overall, for both loans, I think Madisons checks went far enough and there was nothing 
within those checks that should have prompted them to take their checks further or be 
concerned about Mr Ds ability to repay the loans over the term.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Mr D, but I hope hell understand why Ive 
reached this decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman