DRN-2795277
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr J had private medical cover with AXA, provided by his school. In December 2018, he
injured his shoulder and saw a specialist in February 2019 for treatment. It was decided, two
months later, that he needed surgery to put things right.
Mr J said that AXA authorised the treatment, which was originally scheduled for August
2019, and then changed its mind. Mr J said he had to rearrange the surgery because he was
unwell in the run up to it and the surgeon said he needed to be in good health prior to
treatment.
AXA said the reason it withdrew its authorisation was because it discovered Mr J was no 
longer insured with it. It said his cover ended when he left school in June and the treatment 
took place in October. And so, despite the injury having occurred during the period of
cover, it was under no obligation to honour the authorisation itd previously given.
Our investigator agreed with AXA. He said that because Mr J was about to leave school, he
should have been aware that the cover was going to end and with it, the authorisation
previously given.
Mr J disagreed. In summary, he said that he couldnt reasonably be expected to know that.
He also said that given the injury he sustained occurred within the policy period, and AXA
accepted liability to cover the treatment costs, then it should stand by the commitment. 
I issued my provisional findings and said that AXAs decision to reject Mr Js claim was 
unfair. I said that because it didnt show a clear term itd relied on to fairly decline cover. I 
gave both parties the opportunity to respond before reaching a final decision. 
AXA responded with new evidence which gave a clearer picture. It shared a term in its 
handbook which explicitly said that all cover ends when the beneficiary leaves school. It 
further said that all pre-authorised treatment will also be withdrawn at that time. I thought this 
was persuasive enough to change my initial outcome and so I asked Mr J whether he had 
any additional evidence hed like me to consider. 
In response, Mr J said, in summary, that AXA should be morally bound to cover the cost of 
his treatment as it failed to tell him, when he called for authorisation, that cover ended when 
he left school in June. He highlighted this will be a significant cost for him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. AXAs terms are clear in that all pre-authorised 
treatment is withdrawn once a member leaves school. The relevant terms says;
The main things we dont cover
Like all health insurance schemes, there are a few things that are not covered. Weve listed 
the most significant things here, but please also see the details in the scheme handbook...
All costs incurred once your childs cover has ended, even if they were pre-authorised, or the 
condition began when your child was included
AXA had previously not supplied this evidence which is why I said it was unfair for it to 
decline Mr Js claim without basing its decision on a clear term. I think this new evidence is 
clear and therefore I think AXA has declined the claim fairly. 
I understand this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr J and Ive carefully considered 
his arguments about AXA having a moral duty to accept his claim. But Im not sure I agree 
with that as strictly speaking, AXA hasnt made an error here. It explained that this type of 
policy covers school children, however, the policy continues to provide cover for students in 
sixth form  meaning theres no clear indicator for AXA to know when a beneficiary leaves 
the policy. Instead, its reliant on the school, or the beneficiary, to tell it. 
Im highlighting this because when Mr J initially received his authorisation, and when he 
called to rearrange the intended treatment date, hed already left school and therefore was 
not entitled to any benefit. This information wasnt shared with AXA and so it had no 
opportunity to explain there was no cover. Its for these reasons, AXA is entitled to decline 
his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman