DRN-3418246
The complaint
Mr D complained that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) failed to explain how his 
investments went down in value over a weekend when markets were closed. He says it 
has not been able to explain why this happened.
What happened
Mr D held six accounts with SJP, these being an ISA, a retirement account and four 
investment bonds. These six accounts were recorded online by SJP under the umbrella 
of an Online Wealth Account (OWA).  
Mr D has been recording down the total value of his OWA daily. He says he became 
aware of an unusual anomaly on the weekend of Saturday 2nd October 2021 and 
Sunday 3rd October 2021. He says there was a reduction of the overall value of his 
OWA from £597,688 on Saturday to £595,305 on Sunday, resulting in a reduction of 
£2383. He says the markets are closed on the weekend so the overall value of his 
accounts should have remained the same. 
Mr D complained to SJP about what he had seen. He asked for an explanation. SJP wrote to 
Mr D twice in October 2021 about this. It provided its own figures showing what it held on its 
system. It showed overall value of Mr Ds OWA for Friday 1st October 2021 through to 
Monday 4th October.
SJP explained that there was a change in overall value of Mr Ds OWA on Saturday 2nd 
October 2021, because there was a delay in updating the value of his four investment bond 
accounts. It said that price changes from these accounts that occurred on Friday 1st October 
would be loaded onto the system on Saturday 2nd October. This it said accounted for the 
change in overall value on its figures provided for Saturday 2nd October 2021. 
It said it asked an internal department whether it could replicate what Mr D would have seen 
when he logged on and wrote down the overall figure for his records, for that weekend. But it 
said, after doing this, it couldnt replicate the information that matched Mr Ds figures. SJP 
instead supplied its own figures for each of the days in question, from the information it held 
on its system. 
Mr D wasnt happy with SJPs response so referred his complaint to our service. He 
summarised the issues he was unhappy about. He said he wanted SJP to explain exactly 
why the overall figure went down by £2383 on the weekend in question. He said he wanted 
SJP to address why they cant replicate figures shown online, when requested. He then 
asked who was responsible for providing figures and loading them to the website. He said he 
would like a written apology and a financial goodwill payment for its customer service 
failures. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the information 
Mr D wrote down for the days in question, on his records did not match with the figures 
provided by SJP. He said SJP explained why there was a movement in prices over a 
weekend and this was due to a delay in uploading the new price information onto its 
system. The investigator did think SJP had provided an explanation on how its system 
works and the impact of that to the values of his accounts during the weekend. He said 
our service cant ask SJP to change its processes regarding how it holds and retains its 
information. He said he had not seen any errors made and thinks SJP has explained what 
took place. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said SJP did not hold any OWA figures at all and therefore how can 
any comparisons be drawn. He said it was agreed by SJP and himself that the figures 
supplied by SJP bore no resemblance whatsoever to the actual figures shown and 
therefore these figures could not be used as a basis for comparison. He said if SJP had 
retained recorded of the actual times their daily uploads were made, then they should 
also be able to retain records of the actual figures. He said the upload that took place on 
Saturday 2nd October 2021, would have established the figure he wrote down on his sheet 
as £597,688 and this was before the drop in value to what he saw on Sunday 3rd October 
2021, which was £595,305. This, Mr D says, was still unexplained. 
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all submissions provided by both parties and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of 
probabilities, and as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. My role does not involve applying any 
regulatory or disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or 
shouldnt operate.  
I have not upheld Mr Ds complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
The figures provided by the parties, namely the amount Mr D says he obtained 
off SJPs website, and the amount SJP has taken off its system do not match. 
SJP explained to Mr D that its figures taken from its system, show the daily 
values of his accounts. It said the value changed from Friday 1st October 2021 
(£595304.82) to Saturday 2nd October 2021 (£596273.59) due to a delay in 
obtaining a price and uploading this information into its system. SJP has gone on 
to provide overall figures for each of the days in question and it has provided an 
explanation as to why the overall value of Mr Ds accounts changed on the 
weekend. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds disappointment with SJPs explanation. But what SJP has 
said seems plausible to me as to why its figures show the overall value of Mr Ds 
investments changing on Saturday, even though the markets were closed.
I can see that Mr Ds total figure from Tuesday 5th October 2021 matches with 
SJPs figure from Monday 4th October 2021. Mr D and SJP have the same overall 
value as around £596231. So as the records go on to tally, i.e. there is no 
discrepancy in value, I dont think Mr D has been financially disadvantaged or lost 
anything here. Mr D says SJP should be able to hold records and explain price fluctuations on 
its system. But I think it has done this when it has provided information to Mr D 
about his daily overall amounts and the reason for this changing over the 
weekend. I also do not have any powers to direct a business in how to operate or 
store its information. So, whilst I recognise Mr Ds frustrations, I cant direct SJP 
to change the way it reports its information.
Looked at overall, I dont think SJP did anything wrong  so theres nothing it needs to do 
to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D but I hope he will at least feel that 
his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain 
how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman