DRN-3414486
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. He says he navely believed he was helping out a friend and the fraud marker is 
having a negative impact on him.
Background
In June 2020, Mr Hs account received four credits of £400. Shortly afterwards, Starling 
received notifications from two different banks, responsible for sending two out of the four 
payments, stating that the payees of the funds had reported being victims of fraud. By this 
stage, Mr H had already transferred all of the funds out of his account and had contacted 
Starling requesting it close his account. However, after Starling received the notifications 
from the sending banks it decided to review Mr Hs account. It decided to close to close the 
account and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr H.
Mr H eventually realised that Starling had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him 
and made a complaint. Starling looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr H 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that Starling had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Starling has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Starling must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Starling also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Starling had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Starling has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
By the time Starling placed restrictions on Mr Hs account, after it received notifications from 
two other banks that their customers had reported being tricked into sending funds to Mr H, 
the funds had already been transferred and Mr H had attempted to close his account. At the 
time, his reason for closing the account was because he no longer needed it because his 
friends had already repaid the debts he was owed and he had too many cards. 
When questioned about the payments that entered into his account, Mr H told Starling that 
the payments into his account were non-refundable deposits for puppies that he was selling. 
Mr H provided Starling with pictures of the puppies, a copy of the advert, the terms to 
support that the deposits were non-refundable as well as messages he exchanged with one 
of the buyers. 
However, when Mr H referred his complaint to us, he then told us he was asked to accept 
the payments by someone he met online who was running a shoe business and wanted to 
hide this from his family. He said he believed his friend and agreed to help him as he didnt 
think much harm could come of this. He transferred the money to his account with another 
bank because he wanted the payments to go to a trading account, hed already made 
payments to this brokerage from his other account and he wanted to these payments to be 
made from one account. 
When questioned by our adjudicator, he also said that he couldnt remember anything about 
telling Starling about the funds being deposits for puppies. To his knowledge this matter was 
all based around shoes and the reason the funds were transferred immediately is because 
he was quite excited to deposit them into his trading account. 
After our adjudicator issued her first assessment, where she didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld, Mr H said that he appreciated how it looked but he was young at the time 
and this all happened during the first lockdown where he was going through a tough time 
and all he wanted to do was learn to trade so he could support his family.
Furthermore, when our adjudicator reiterated her view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, Mr H then said that the reason for the difference in his versions of events was 
because he didnt want to be implicated in the puppy fraud and he thought that denying all 
knowledge of it to us would put him in the clear. He knew that there was a problem with the 
transactions when he saw the references used for the incoming payments and he realised 
the truth when he spoke to his friend. He then panicked and tried to close the account 
thinking it would end the investigation but when it didnt he carried on the story about 
payments for puppies because he had evidence of what had happened and he thought that 
this would put him in the clear.
Ive thought about what Mr H now says. But, in truth, given the wildly inconsistent versions of 
events hes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to place much 
weight at all on what Mr H is now saying. Id also add that there appears to be no dispute 
that the funds which entered Mr Hs account were fraudulent. Im also mindful that Mr H provided evidence of his discussions with at least one of the parties who reported the fraud 
as well as the advert which solicited the payments, because he had it, and his reason for 
transferring the funds in question to another account in his name simply isnt plausible. After 
all if he genuinely believed the funds were for shoe sales and the funds were to be invested 
or traded, why werent the funds simply credited to his other account in the first place.  
Im afraid the glaring inconsistencies coupled with the implausibility of what Mr H now says is 
the truth means I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant. Instead, I think 
its more likely than not he was likely complicit. So I dont think that Starling acted unfairly 
towards Mr H and Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially as he believes that we 
should look at the situation and the effect the fraud marker is having on him rather than the 
evidence provided. But even taking into account Mr Hs age and the impact he says the 
marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been complicit in 
fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr H will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, as our adjudicator has explained Mr H might find that hes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full 
Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman