DRN-4177079
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his motor insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage), and about the way it dealt with a third party claim against his policy. 
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr W was 
dealing with a different company who acts as Advantages agent. As Advantage has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to 
Advantage includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint in May 2023. In that decision 
I provisionally decided that if Advantage does pursue Mr W for its outlay it must only seek to 
recover £9,717.00 and not £16,856.00 from him. An extract from that decision follows:
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy for his motorbike which started on 
1 September 2020. He was involved in an accident in October 2020 with a third party, for 
which Advantage deemed him to be at fault. Advantage settled the third party claim but said 
that it wouldnt indemnify Mr W (meaning it would request reimbursement of its outlay from 
him). It said this was because he breached his policy terms by being under the influence of 
alcohol at the time of the accident. Overall, Advantage paid £16,856.00 in compensation and 
fees to the third party, which it now wants back from Mr W. Advantage also cancelled the 
policy. 
Mr W wasnt happy about this and complained. He said he contacted the police and they 
said they had no record of his case. He added that he had not breached his policy terms and 
that he had not been found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol. Mr Ws criminal 
solicitors also wrote to Advantage and said that they believed that the breathalyser test at 
the police station was inconclusive and that this would explain why Mr W wasnt charged. 
They asked for Mr Ws policy to be reinstated.  
Advantage didnt change its decision. It said that Mr W was above the legal drink drive limit 
at the time of the accident. In its final response it said that when Mr W reported the incident, 
he said his readings at the roadside and at the police station were both 43 micrograms per 
100 millilitres of breath and that he had consumed several pints of beer. It said the legal limit 
is 35 micrograms per 100 millilitres. It added that the policy expired on 31 August 2021 and 
could not be reinstated and also that it was intending to issue court proceedings against 
Mr W.  
To us Advantage said that it didnt require a conviction in order to determine that Mr W had 
breached his policy terms. It said it settled the third party claim in line with its obligation 
under the Road Traffic Act (RTA).
 
Mr W didnt agree and asked us to consider his complaint. He said when he was tested at 
the roadside he was just over the limit. He was then taken to a police station, retested and 
released under investigation. He added that he is of limited means and did not understand 
how the damage he caused to the third party car amounted to a life changing amount of 
money. He said he believed Advantages reaction to be excessive.
 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He felt that Mr W had breached the terms of his policy. He also didnt think he could 
comment on the amount Advantage settled the third party claim for. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He disputed that he was over 
the limit and repeated that he was never charged by the police. He said the readings taken 
by the police may have been flawed which would explain why he wasnt ever prosecuted.
 
Before I issued my decision, I requested that Advantage provide me with copies of the 
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) portal pack, which contains details of the negotiations between it 
and the third party solicitors when it came to the amount of general damages (damages for 
injuries) and special damages (any other damages such as expenses, credit hire, treatment 
costs etc) the claim settled for. I also asked how it arrived at the offers it made to the third 
party. For example I saw that it had settled on a £10,000.00 offer for the credit hire claim and 
£1,400.00 for the recovery and storage claim, but it wasnt clear how those offers had been 
calculated. Advantage has now provided this information, which I have considered below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy
In the General exceptions section the policy says that Advantage will not provide cover if its 
insured is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or is riding while unfit through 
alcohol, drugs or other substances whether prescribed or not. This is also found in its 
insurance product information document and the policy certificate. So, I think it was 
sufficiently highlighted and Advantage did enough to bring it to Mr Ws attention. 
At the end of the General conditions and General exceptions sections the policy states 
that in the circumstances listed under those two sections Advantage will not provide cover 
under the policy and instead its liability will be restricted to meeting the obligations as 
required by the RTA or other laws that apply in the country where the loss occurs. And in 
such circumstances Advantage may seek to recover from the insured any sums it pays out 
to discharge its insureds liability whether that is made in settlement or under a court 
judgment. 
The cancellations section of the policy also says that Advantage may give its insured seven 
days notice of cancellation if it is prevented from providing cover under the policy by law or 
other reason.
The decision to refuse indemnity and seek reimbursement from Mr W
Mr W has not denied that he told Advantage that, according to the breathalyser test, he was 
over the limit when he was tested at the scene of the accident. In his initial call to Advantage 
he also said that he was over the limit when he was tested at the police station.  Mr Ws 
main argument in favour of Advantage indemnifying him is that he was not convicted of an 
offence and was therefore not in breach of his policy terms.
The policy exceptions I referred to above and which Advantage has relied on dont say that 
Mr W has to be convicted of the offence of drink driving in order for Advantage to be able to rely on those exceptions. They say that it is enough for him to be found to be over the limit or 
to be riding while unfit through alcohol. Mr W accepts that the breathalyser tests showed him 
to be over the limit so I think Advantage was acting within the terms of its policy when it 
refused to indemnify Mr W. And Advantage only has to show, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Mr W was over the limit and I think it has. I note that Mr Ws solicitors have said that the 
tests may have been inconclusive, but I am not aware of any evidence in support of this 
allegation. I also note that Mr W was never charged by the police but there may be a number 
of other reasons for that. And as far as I am aware the police never specified why it did not 
proceed to charge Mr W. So in the circumstances, I dont think the way Advantage acted 
was unfair or unreasonable.  
The policy also allows Advantage to seek reimbursement from Mr W. I dont think this term is 
necessarily unfair and this may also be something that Advantage is entitled to in law. In the 
circumstances where I think that Advantage should be able to rely on an exception to decline 
the cover, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to interfere with Advantages 
decision to seek to make a recovery from Mr W. But in deciding whether it is fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances for Advantage to recover its outlay in part or in full 
from Mr W, I need look at its actions, including its efforts to defend or settle the third party 
claim in a reasonable way.
The decision to settle the third party claim under the Road Traffic Act
Mr W collided with the back of a stationary vehicle. So the circumstances of the accident 
would suggest that Mr W was at fault. So, I think Advantage was acting fairly and reasonably 
when it agreed to deal with/settle the third party claim.
 
Advantage said it dealt with the third party claim in line of its obligations under the RTA - 
where insurers are in some circumstances required to settle third party/innocent party claims 
despite having indemnity issues with their own insured. 
In this case Mr W was riding his motorbike whilst over the limit, something that is excluded 
under the policy. In the circumstances, I think this is a case where Advantage could have 
asserted Article 75 status (without the need of a court declaration) rather than deal with the 
third party claim as RTA insurer. And under Article 75 it would have been required to meet 
the claim on behalf of the Motor Insurers Bureau, which would have meant that it wouldnt 
have been responsible for losses covered by another policy. What this means in this case is 
that if the third party had fully comprehensive cover, Advantage could have arguably 
successfully refused to pay for its vehicle damage. This came to £1,600.00.
Bearing this in mind, I think Advantages decision to deal as RTA Insurer rather than assert 
Article 75 status has impacted Mr W. So in seeking reimbursement I dont think Advantage 
should be able to recover the amount it paid towards the third partys insured losses from 
Mr W. If Advantage can show that the third party didnt have comprehensive cover it must 
provide me with evidence in support at the earliest opportunity and in any event before the 
deadline for responding to this provisional decision. 
I note that under Article 75 there is no automatic right of recovery from Mr W. Advantage 
could have compelled the third party to complete a consent and assignment form ahead of it 
settling the claim. As far as I am aware it has not done this. But as I have said above, it is 
entitled to make a recovery under the terms of its policy. So in the circumstances, I will not 
interfere with its decision to seek recovery of the balance beyond the insured losses from 
Mr W in principle. But I do need to consider whether the amount it paid to do this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The amount the third party was settled forThe third partys claim included a claim for the provision of a replacement car under a credit 
hire agreement. Credit hire is, as the name suggests, a contract whereby a party is provided 
with a hire car on credit and without having to pay for it in advance. Credit hire is normally 
provided to the party who isnt at fault for the accident and who hopes to recover the cost of 
the hire from the at fault party, in this case Mr W. As the hire is provided on credit it is more 
expensive than normal hire. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) introduced the General Terms of Agreement (GTA), 
which set agreed service standards and charges for the credit hire industry on an opt-in 
basis, including maximum daily rates for different vehicle groups. The costs depend on the 
type, specification, and value of the hire car.
We consider GTA rates to be a good guide for what reasonable rates are in a specific case. 
Unlike courtesy cars, credit hire cars are provided on a like for like basis whereas courtesy 
cars are normally small cars. So if a party has a large car with a big engine their credit hire 
car will be something similar and so their credit hire bill will be higher compared to 
someone who owns a small car. 
In this case the car Mr W collided with was a taxi. Taxis have different rates to private cars 
under the GTA and a car that is a taxi will be more expensive to hire compared to the same 
car that isnt a taxi. 
The third party claimed for credit hire between 26 October 2020 and 5 January 2021 at a 
rate of £220.00 (excluding VAT) per day but the provider said it would reduce this to £110.39 
plus VAT if the bill was settled within 14 days of its letter to Advantage. The GTA rate for the 
particular taxi, which the third party solicitors said was a category NT4 vehicle, is £110.39 
per day. 
There are additional charges such as collision damage waiver (CDW- a type of insurance in 
case the credit hire car is damaged or stolen) £710.00, delivery and collection £92.00, 
recovery and storage £1,575.00 and £3,599.40 VAT bringing it to a total of £21,596.40. 
I would expect to see Advantage to have considered the length of hire and whether this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. In this case the hire started on 26 October, the car was 
inspected the following day and the engineers report was provided two days after that so 
I cant see any delays there. It seems the hire provider sent the engineers report to 
Advantage on 30 October (though Advantage says this was received on 2 November), but 
the vehicle damage claim wasnt settled until 17 December by Advantage. Hire ended on 
5 January. There seems to have been a delay between the engineers report being sent and 
the claim for the vehicle damage being settled by Advantage and its not clear why that was 
the case. Particularly, as Advantage had decided that the claim was a fault claim from the 
start. There also seems to have been a delay in the third party coming out of hire, although 
I appreciate this was around the Christmas holiday. So I would have expected to see 
Advantage query this and consider the fact its delay in settling the claim for the third party 
vehicle led to a longer hire period. 
Furthermore, my understanding is that the courts also dont consider that a third party should 
be automatically entitled to a credit hire vehicle if it is not at fault for the accident. They 
consider this should only be the case in certain circumstances. Some of these include not 
having access to another vehicle; but also on whether the third party is unable to afford a 
normal hire car because they are impecunious. And in cases where the third party relies on 
their car for work the court could consider awarding loss of profit instead of credit hire fees. 
In this case, as I said above, the third party was a taxi driver and in their mitigation 
questionnaire where they explain why there is a genuine need for hire, they said that they 
need a replacement vehicle to continue to work. Advantage has provided a copy of its defence to the credit hire claim. Its arguments included 
the fact that the third party was not impecunious and did not have a genuine need for hire. It 
has also argued that a reasonable hire rate would have been £28.57 per day. This is based 
on basic rates i.e. normal hire rather than credit hire rates. And Advantages argument in 
support was that the third party was not entitled to credit hire in the first place. It also 
challenged the length of hire and said it should have lasted for 55 days instead of 71. It said 
that the credit hire provider delayed sending its engineers report to it and also that there was 
a delay in the third party coming out of hire after receiving the settlement offer from 
Advantage.  Despite its arguments and calculating that the third party should have only 
claimed around £1,500.00 for hire, it offered to settle the claim for £10,000.00. This offer was 
accepted. 
It is difficult to know whether Advantages arguments would have been accepted by a judge 
and the credit hire claim reduced to £1,500.00. Despite this, even if we were to assume that 
the third party would have been able to claim more than the £28.57 basic rate, I think 
Advantages offer of £10,000.00 suggests that a reasonable rate would have been around 
£145 per day (and in calculating this I have deducted £2,000.00 for VAT and  I havent 
included the additional charges such as CDW which I think Advantage could have also 
argued against). I note that the third party said it was prepared to accept £110.39 (the GTA 
rate) so even if I were to say that £110.39 per day is reasonable, I dont think Mr W should 
be responsible for the £10,000.00 to Advantage and I will explain why. 
From what I have seen, Advantage said it received the engineers report on 2 November but 
it didnt settle the vehicle damage claim until 17 December; with payment being raised on 
11 December. It is not clear why there was a delay and in the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary I dont think it was reasonable for Advantage to have delayed settling the 
vehicle damage claim. Particularly, in light of the fact that it was for a relatively low amount 
and also as this was a straightforward liability-admitted claim. As soon as the £1,600.00 was 
paid the third party would have come out of hire. I think a reasonable amount of time would 
have been around ten days after receipt of the payment. So I think even if Advantage didnt 
have the engineers report until 2 November it could have raised the total loss payment of 
£1,600.00 (even on a without prejudice basis) within a few days. I see that it took the third 
party six days to receive payment. So, I think it would have been reasonable for Advantage 
to have raised the payment no later than a week later, so by 9 November. The third party 
would have received the payment by 16 November and allowing 10 days to come out of hire 
and purchase a new car this would have meant that hire would have stopped around 
26 November. And even allowing two weeks to find a new car would have meant that hire 
would have stopped by 30 November. Instead it carried on more than one month longer than 
it should have in my opinion. I dont think this is something Mr W should be responsible for. 
So if I were to accept the £110.39 daily rate for 36 days this would mean that Mr W should 
be responsible for £3,974.04 (£4,769 inclusive of VAT) and not £10,000.00 in respect of 
credit hire.
Also, in the previous section I said that had Advantage asserted Article 75 status it would 
have not been responsible for the £1,600.00 vehicle damage payment. I stand by that 
statement and I think, as I said before, Advantage could have simply paid the third party 
£1,600.00 to get them out of hire on a without prejudice basis. And it could have deducted 
this amount from the overall settlement later on. 
In terms of the additional charges of CDW I would have expected Advantage to question 
whether this was something it should be paying for as it is arguably not something Mr W is 
responsible for. If the third party wanted to take out insurance to protect it against the risk of 
a potential future accident, then that is arguably a matter for them, and an expense they 
should bear themselves. Its unclear whether Advantage agreed to pay the CDW or not 
because its offer of £10,000.00 wasnt broken down. But for the purposes of this decision I have taken it that it didnt make an offer towards the CDW. And I say this because in its 
credit hire defence it said the £10,000.00 offer was for credit hire and it didnt mention any of 
the other charges. 
In terms of the storage charges I see that the third party car was in storage for 53 days 
(between 26.10.2020 and 17.12.2020) at a cost of £25.00 per day. I would have expected 
Advantage to challenge the need for storage and to have checked whether the third party 
had access to free storage - in line with his duty to mitigate its losses. Advantage argued that 
the storage fees were high and offered £20.00 per day plus VAT for 47 days plus £150.00 
plus VAT for recovery charges. Advantage relied on the Removal, Storage and Disposal of 
Vehicles (Prescribed Sums and Charges) Regulations 2008 to arrive at these offers. Even if 
I were to accept that Advantage did enquire about whether the third party had access to free 
storage and that the rates it offered were reasonable, for the reasons I gave above in 
relation to the credit hire I dont think Mr W should be responsible for the full amount paid 
towards storage. And this is because had the vehicle damage been paid earlier the third 
party vehicle would have come out of storage sooner- particularly bearing in mind the car 
was a total loss. With that in mind I think a reasonable offer would have been 23 days 
storage (between 26 October 2020 and 16 November 2020 when I think the vehicle damage 
payment should have been made) at £20.00 plus VAT which comes to £552.00. Plus the 
recovery fee of £180.00 (£150.00 plus VAT) which seems reasonable this comes to £732.00. 
In terms of the third party general damages (compensating for injuries) I see that they were 
initially claiming £6,500.00 and that the claim ultimately settled for £3,040.00. I see that 
Advantage justified its lower offer by saying that the third party only took three days off work 
and only required painkillers and no other treatment. It also said he was able to exit the car 
unaided after the accident. The third party solicitors referred to the Judicial College 
Guidelines (The JC Guidelines) when making their offer. The JC Guidelines provide 
guidance and give an indication of likely damages awards for various types of injuries. 
The medical expert diagnosed the third party with severe shock which lasted one day. He 
also diagnosed him with neck pain and stiffness, gave a ten month prognosis and 
recommended physiotherapy. There were also ten and 12 month diagnoses for pain and 
stiffness to the left shoulder and to the lower back respectively. And six month travel anxiety. 
I think the settlement of £3,400.00 seems reasonable and it seems to be in line with the 
JC Guidelines. 
Advantage also paid £216.00 for the medical report and £180.00 for the engineers fee both 
of which seem reasonable. Plus solicitors costs which are fixed under the Ministry of Justice 
protocol. 
Overall I think the amount Advantage is entitled to recover from Mr W is £3,400.00 for 
damages, £816.00 solicitors fees and disbursements, £4,769.00 for credit hire and £732.00 
for storage and recovery. Total £9,717.00 instead of £16,856.00.
The decision to cancel the policy
Advantage told Mr W that the policy expired on 31 August 2021, but I dont think thats the 
case. From what I have seen in Advantages file, the policy was cancelled on 11 March 2021 
further to it giving Mr W seven days notice of its intention to cancel.  
Though Advantage didnt really specify why it cancelled the policy I see that this is 
something that it was entitled to do under the policy terms - as a result of it not being able to 
provide cover to Mr W. So I am not going to interfere with its decision to do this.Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr W restated that he has not been 
charged with a driving offence and would not have been riding his motorbike had he been 
over the limit. He questioned why the third party vehicle damage wasnt settled sooner by 
Advantage. He also reiterated that he is of very limited means. 
Advantages response focused on the hire costs. It said the third party was a fully licenced 
taxi driver and required the use of a fully licenced taxi as this was his main source of income. 
It also said that under the GTA taxis have their own (higher) rates and as this was the third 
partys primary source of income he wouldnt be indemnified for his loss if he was only 
provided with a general hire vehicle. It added that the fact that the third party was aware 
early on that their vehicle was a total loss didnt absolve it from being liable for the full cost of 
hire. The third party required continuous use of the hire vehicle until his new car became a 
licenced taxi. It said this can take time and provided an internet link to the licencing authority. 
It added that it was pleased that the length of hire was called into question and reduced to 
51 days. It said it wanted to keep costs to a minimum whilst bearing in mind what a judge 
would decide if the matter went to court. 
Advantage also said it didnt feel that my arguments regarding impecuniosity applied in this 
case. It said the third party was not able to prove he had little money. But his livelihood was 
put on hold whilst waiting for all of the checks to be completed for his new vehicle (in order to 
obtain his taxi licence). It asked me to show how the third party could have mitigated his 
losses in this instance. It added that the third party accepting its £10,000 which was a 
£9,706.40 reduction indicated that its offer would have been viewed favourably in court. 
I responded to Advantage and referred to case law where the courts confirmed that the 
general rule when it comes to credit hire for taxis is that damages will be limited to the 
amount the claimant lost in profit. So the third party would have had to show that his profit for 
the 71 days of hire was more than £19,706.40 in order to succeed in his credit hire claim. 
This was something Advantage briefly referred to in its defence to the court claim but 
I couldnt see that the third party had provided evidence to show what his earnings were over 
that period. The same case also mentioned three exceptions to this general rule: future 
trading being compromised, the vehicle being used for social and domestic purposes and 
impecuniosity. So, in answer to Advantages question, my view was that impecuniosity also 
plays a part in cases involving taxis/private hire vehicles. It was unclear to me whether in this 
case the third party was asked to produce any information in relation to these points before 
the £10,000 offer was made.
Regarding the timescales involved in obtaining a taxi licence, I informed Advantage that 
I wasnt able to find any relevant information using the link it had provided. In any event 
I noted that the third party in this case received payment of their vehicle damage claim on 17 
December and came out of hire on 5 January. Bearing in mind the holiday period I didnt 
think that there was a significant delay at that point. Where I had found significant delays 
was in the settlement of the vehicle damage claim by Advantage. And as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision Advantage had said that it received the engineers report on 
2 November but didnt settle the vehicle damage claim until 17 December. It was unclear to 
me why there was such a long delay and from what I had seen it was unjustified. And I didnt 
think this delay was in any way related to the length of time it took for the third party to get a 
new taxi licence  because this was before they had their vehicle damage settlement and so 
they didnt have their new car at that point to be able to start the process for making it a taxi. 
Advantage responded to say it agreed with my proposed outcome.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Mr Ws comments in reply have not changed my views on the 
complaint as set out provisionally. I have addressed his comments in my provisional 
decision, namely that I dont think he needed to be charged with an offence for Advantage to 
be able to fairly and reasonably reject his claim. And I also agreed that Advantage did delay 
settling the third party vehicle damage claim. 
As Advantage has accepted my additional comments above and accepted the outcome 
I proposed in my provisional decision, there is no need for me to comment further. 
My provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this my final 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that if Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
proceeds with seeking to make a recovery of its outlay from Mr W it must only seek to 
recover £9,717.00 and not £16,856.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman