DRN-4030132
The complaint
Mr L complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In November 2021 Mr L acquired a used car to be used for his profession, funded in part 
with a hire purchase agreement taken with MBFS. The car was just under two years old and 
had covered around 14,536 miles. The cash price was £32,389 and Mr L paid a deposit of 
£22,265. The rest of the funds were taken under a hire purchase agreement taken over 36 
months, with an annual mileage allowance of 20,000.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr L says he noticed issues with it. Some of these issues were 
noted slightly later, but for simplicities sake I will list these here as these were quite 
extensive.
Its worth noting here Mr L has provided a lot of testimony on this case about the issues on 
the car and what happened. Ill focus on what I think are the key facts, but I want to reassure 
Mr L that Ive carefully considered everything hes said and reviewed all of the evidence and 
statements hes provided.
Mr L noted issues with:
Tyres close to legal limit
Juddering under braking  a warped disc was later noted
Issues with gearbox juddering between 2nd and 3rd gear
Cosmetic issues - a large scratch to the roof, crack in front grill, chips, discoloration 
of chrome trim, issues with wheel trim and general issues with paintwork  
specifically around the rear of the car and rear doors
Missing bolt from front bumper
Rear camera loose/not functioning
Mr L says the car was returned to the dealer for repairs in February 2022 and March 2022, 
but some issues including the juddering under braking and gearbox issues persisted. Mr L 
complained to MBFS. It issued a final response around March 2022. It said, in summary, that 
there was no evidence the issues Mr L complained about were present at the point of 
supply.
In April 2022 Mr L says the car detected a collision when it was stationary.
In May 2022 Mr L made our service aware of the complaint and we began to investigate. We 
requested various information from MBFS, much of which wasnt supplied. Mr L provided 
some further information such as emails between the dealer and himself, and an email from 
a tyre company identifying the issues with a warped front disc, chrome trim and a bolt 
missing from the front bumper.
Around August 2022 Mr L said the car had detected a collision again and in another incident 
said the brake assist function slowed the car when there was nothing in front of it, injuring 
him.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained he thought the complaint should be upheld.
He explained there was a lack of evidence available, but based on what Mr L had provided 
and his testimony, he thought the car had faults present at the point of supply that meant it 
was of unsatisfactory quality. He said he thought Mr L should be able to reject the car and 
that MBFS should pay him £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
MBFS didnt agree. It said some minor issues with the car had been resolved by the dealer, 
but others hadnt been looked at, so it hadnt had the opportunity to resolve these.
The case was then passed to me for a decision. I asked MBFS and Mr L for some further 
information. Mr L provided some further evidence such as job sheets and vehicle inspection 
results from the dealer.
Mr L has also said he has incurred further costs since the investigator issued his opinion 
such as MOT, servicing and an extended warranty. Its also worth noting here that at the 
cars last MOT in November 2022 it is recorded as having covered 71,302 miles.
I sent Mr L and MBFS a provisional decision on 10 January 2023. Ive summarised the key 
points from my findings below. I explained to MBFS and Mr L:
I was satisfied the agreement Mr L entered into was regulated and our service could 
consider it
That the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SGA) was relevant to the complaint and meant 
MBFS needed to make sure the car supplied was of satisfactory quality
In general, there was something of a lack of evidence about the appearance of the 
car
That the SGA explains that anything that wouldve been apparent on an examination 
of the goods before the contract was made should not be considered part of 
satisfactory quality
In relation to the missing bolt, this had been repaired. So, I said no further action was 
required
In relation to the chrome trim, I thought this issue had also likely been repaired. I also 
explained I didnt know how severe this was, but if it was severe, it shouldve been 
apparent on an inspection
In relation to the scratch to the roof, if this was present when supplied I thought this 
shouldve been apparent on an inspection
In relation to the cracked grill, this shouldve been apparent on inspection
That there was a particular lack of evidence around the rear doors and paintwork, but 
its likely this wouldve been apparent on an inspection of the car if the issues were 
present
In relation to the tyres, I thought it was most likely these were road legal and safe
In relation to the warped brake disc, this was repaired at no cost to Mr L and didnt 
impact him driving the car
In relation to the gearbox, I thought this fault occurred. But I said due to the gear change being described as slightly delayed but not harsh by a garage, I might not 
consider that this meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Either way, I was 
satisfied this had been repaired and Mr L had covered around 18,000 miles without 
further work being needed
Again, there was a particular lack of evidence in relation to the collision detection and 
automatic braking. But I hadnt seen enough to make me think any issue was present 
or developing at the point of supply
In relation to the rear camera, an inspection of the car from June 2022 said this was 
working, so I didnt think it was likely there was a fault here
In relation to other minor issues, I thought these were either repaired or not present 
or developing at the point of supply
As a general observation, Mr L had covered a lot of miles in the car  around 57,000 
as of November 2022
I didnt think MBFS were responsible for costs Mr L had raised such as MOT tests, 
servicing or a warranty
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further information. MBFS didnt 
respond. 
Mr L came back and made various points. In summary, he said Id got various dates and 
events wrong. He said he thought the car had been in an accident and repaired. He said the 
car had steering vibration. He said the rear camera was loose. He said the cars ABS came 
on for no reason. And he said he was going to get a report carried out on the car.
Mr L then sent an independent report in relation to the car. Ill comment on this further below, 
but in summary, this explained it thought the paintwork finish of the car was poor in parts and 
there was evidence of prior repairs to the car, including the use of filler. The report 
concluded it would take extensive work to return the car to an acceptable standard.
I got in touch with MBFS and Mr L and explained the report had changed my opinion on the 
complaint because of its contents and conclusions. Together with what Mr L had consistently 
said about the car, I explained I thought the complaint should now be upheld.
I sent a copy of the report to MBFS and explained to it, and Mr L, that I thought it would be 
fair to allow Mr L to reject the car. I thought he should be reimbursed his deposit, reimbursed 
10% of all repayments made to the agreement, paid £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused and for any adverse information to be removed from Mr Ls credit file. 
Mr L also provided a receipt for the cost of the independent inspection, which I also thought 
should be reimbursed.
Mr L said he was relieved the complaint was being upheld, but was unhappy this wasnt the 
case before the independent report was provided. He reiterated some of his original points 
and said the car still had ongoing issues, such as automatically braking unnecessarily. 
I gave MBFS a deadline of 22 February 2023 to respond. It then explained it didnt receive 
the report, so this was sent again and a deadline of 7 March 2023 given to provide any 
comments.
MBFS initially agreed that following on from the report the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
But, it then got in touch after the 7 March deadline and said it thought the car may have been 
in a collision during the term of the agreement. And it said Mr L shouldve noticed the poor 
paintwork before the contract was entered into. MBFS asked for some time to make final comments. A final deadline of 16 March 2023 was given to MBFS and it was explained I 
would issue a final decision if no further comments were provided by this date. MBFS didnt 
send any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld.
Looking at the independent report Mr L sent in, Im satisfied this makes it clear the car had 
previously been involved in an accident and poorly repaired. Ive included some of the 
findings from this report below:
The bonnet did appear to be out of alignment with uneven gapping
The nearside rear wing displayed minor scratches and there was a slight uneven texture.  
There were sanding marks along the arch by the nearside rear door
The rear bumper displayed minor scratches and imperfections to the paint.  There was also 
a slight colour difference; the nearside rear appeared to be grey and the offside rear 
appeared to be black
In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we were able to identify several cosmetic 
defects with the vehicle at the time of our inspection, however, it does appear that some 
repairs have been conducted especially to the nearside rear area of the vehicle as the 
nearside rear wing (paint) did measure at 1,232 microns, whereas the remaining 
measurements were somewhat consistent
We would have to conclude generally the paintwork finish was not considered to be to a 
commercially acceptable standard and/or of satisfactory quality.  The repair method also will 
be considered to be less than satisfactory to the rear wing substrates equated to 1232 
microns. Original paint depth will be somewhere between 90 microns and hundred and 150 
microns prior to any remedial action.
We would conclude that we were able to identify defects with the paint finish at the time of 
our inspection and usages of filler material appears to of been applied based on the paint 
readings to the nearside rear wing.
The areas which have been subject to repair are not considered to be of a satisfactory 
quality
It would also appear on both the nearside rear door and offside rear door apertures that 
there was uneven texture of paint where we consider that this part of the vehicle has been 
painted and taped up.  However, where the rough paint is located this has not been taped up 
correctly and been exposed during the process.
Ive very carefully considered if this damage and the subsequent repairs happened during 
the time Mr L had the car. I accept this could be possible, as Mr L has covered a high 
mileage in the car and the report was made some time after he acquired it. But, having 
considered everything, Im satisfied on balance that the damage most likely occurred before 
Mr L got the car. I say this as Mr L noted cosmetic issues not long after getting the car. Hes been consistent 
with his testimony here. Ive also considered the email from the tyre company that describes 
the issue with a missing bolt from the front of the car. It would appear this could be as a 
result of previous damage. I accept this email doesnt give a date of when it saw the car, but 
Mr L says this was soon after he got it. Some of the issues it describes such as the warped 
disc were repaired less than three months after Mr L got the car, which backs up this 
testimony.
Ive also carefully considered whether this damage wouldve been apparent on an initial 
inspection. As I explained in my provisional decision, this would mean it couldnt be 
considered part of satisfactory quality. I still think for some of the cosmetic issues, this may 
have been the case. But, thinking about the whole picture here and the overall appearance 
of the car, given the independent report based some of its conclusions on paint depth, Im 
satisfied at least some of the damage needed a more in depth look at to become apparent. 
So, it follows Im satisfied this can be considered part of whether the car is of satisfactory 
quality.
It follows all of this that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to allow MBFS to repair the car. But I think it has 
had an opportunity to do this - I think at least some repairs have been previously attempted 
to the cosmetic issues the car has since Mr L got it. But, even if this wasnt the case, the 
report concludes the car would:
require extensive work to be completed to return the vehicle to a commercially acceptable 
standard
Given this, I think a repair would likely not now be economically viable for the car given its 
age and mileage. Nor am I confident it could return the car to the finish it shouldve had 
when Mr L entered into the agreement, given the report details rough paint, filler and 
mismatched paint colours.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied Mr L should now be allowed to reject the car.
I have reconsidered the other areas Mr L has complained about. And, Ive thought about the 
information he provided in relation to the dates he says some of these issues occurred. But I 
still think, apart from the cosmetic issues detailed in the report, that these dont mean the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied or were repaired. This is for the same reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
Ive thought about what else would be fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr L. Hes 
had to pay out for an independent report, so I think he should be reimbursed for this. 
I have considered the impact of this situation on Mr L and his use of the car. I think its fair to 
say hes been able to use it despite the cosmetic issues, given the mileage hes covered. 
But, he has been consistent in his testimony that the car doesnt look as it should  which is 
backed up by the report.
Considering Mr Ls employment, I think the appearance of the car wouldve had an impact 
on him. Im satisfied in this case that Mr L has effectively had impaired usage of it. So, I think 
he should be reimbursed 10% of all the repayments made towards the agreement.
I also think that discovering the issues with the car must have been stressful for Mr L. So, I 
think MBFS should pay him £200 to reflect this.Ive also reconsidered Mr Ls request for other costs to be reimbursed to him such as the 
warranty, MOT test etc. But, Im satisfied Mr L wouldve incurred these costs whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality or not. So, in this particular case, I still dont think MBFS are 
responsible for this.
In general, considering the use of the car Mr L has had, I dont think it would be reasonable 
to reimburse any further costs.
Ive carefully considered what MBFS said in response to being sent the report. But, as Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied the damage most likely occurred before Mr L got the car. And 
Im satisfied at least some of the damage wouldnt have been apparent on an inspection. So, 
this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr L at a time and date suitable for him
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Reimburse Mr L the cost of the independent report - £264  from 13 January 2023*
Reimburse Mr L 10% of all repayments made towards the agreement*
Reimburse Mr Ls deposit of £22,265 from 22 November 2021*
Pay Mr L £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file about this agreement
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman