DRN-4131703
The complaint
Ms R complains about Zurich Assurance Ltds decision to turn down her income protection 
claim. 
What happened
Ms R is covered under her employers group income protection policy. This will pay benefit, 
after a deferred period of 26 weeks, in the event she cannot work because of illness or 
injury. 
In December 2020, Ms R stopped work and was signed off by her GP with work-related 
stress. A claim was submitted to Zurich. This was turned down because Zurich did not 
consider that Ms R was incapacitated, in line with the policy terms. Ms R brought a complaint 
to this service about Zurichs claim decision. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He was of the view that the 
medical evidence supported that Ms R was incapacitated, according to the policy terms. He 
therefore recommended that Zurich pay the claim, plus interest. 
Zurich didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be paid, Ms R needs to show shes incapacitated. The policy explains this 
means the member is unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of their 
occupation because of illness or injury.
Ms Rs situation is slightly unusual, as she was living abroad during the deferred period. She 
was still under the care of her GP in that time though, and did start talking therapy. 
Unfortunately, when the talking therapy service became aware that Ms R was abroad, this 
service was withdrawn. Ms R didnt have medical treatment abroad, due to the cost of this. 
Taking this into account, I think its reasonable to consider the evidence provided by Dr M 
(consultant psychiatrist), as Dr M assessed Ms R around a month after the deferred period 
had ended. 
Dr M noted that Ms R had been signed off work with work-related stress after an incident at 
work. Dr M concluded that she was suffering with a major depressive disorder episode, 
which he thought was severe. He thought she had experienced this since stopping work, and 
said her health was badly affected with pervasive and daily low mood, anxiety and 
avoidance of normal social and work activities. He also said she was unable to carry out her 
job, shed had weight gain, disrupted sleep, tearfulness, self-neglect and poor concentration. 
Dr M concluded that Ms R was unfit for work, even on a part-time basis. 
Its clear that Dr Ms evidence supports that Ms R couldnt work because of her symptoms, 
and that she was incapacitated.  
However, Zurichs chief medical officer (CMO) (who has confirmed he is not a psychiatrist) 
believed that Ms R was experiencing a work-related stress matter. 
Dr M was provided with the CMOs view and assessed Ms R again in February 2022. 
Dr M accepted that an incident in work was one factor that had caused Ms Rs stress before 
he had diagnosed her with depression. He said this was among the causes of her illness. 
But he said the effect of this stressor (and others) was to trigger a mental breakdown. Dr M 
noted that Ms R was under the care of a clinical psychologist at that time. He thought she 
had partially recovered, but was still unable to return to duties similar to her former role for 
the next few months.
Whilst I appreciate Ms Rs GP and Zurichs CMO thought that Ms R was suffering with 
stress, this service will generally place greater weight on the opinion of a specialist. Though I 
see that, although Ms Rs GP initially thought she was suffering with work-related stress, her 
sick notes from August 2021 named depression as being the reason she couldnt work. Dr M 
thought the fact that the GP had initially signed Ms R off with work-related stress was 
immaterial, and said the confusion between the cause of an illness and the fact of an illness 
is a common one, especially in the early weeks of an illness. 
Zurich arranged for Ms R to be assessed by Dr F (consultant psychiatrist) in May 2022. Dr F 
has also provided further comments in a more recent report.
Ive read Dr Fs reports, and its apparent that Dr F disagrees with a lot of Dr Ms opinions 
and findings. Zurich says that Dr F has raised valid points to undermine Dr Ms diagnosis. 
However, Im not medically qualified, so I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
comment on Dr F and Dr Ms medical differences of opinion. Ultimately, Dr F concluded that 
Ms R didnt present with a depressive episode or adjustment disorder. He said she was not 
suffering with a medical illness that was preventing her from returning to work.  
Its therefore the case that we have two equally qualified specialists who have both carried 
out independent assessments of Ms R, yet they have reached very different conclusions 
about her health. I therefore must weigh up which specialists view Im more persuaded by. 
On balance, I find that greater weight should be placed on Dr Ms opinion. I say that because 
he assessed Ms R shortly after the deferred period had ended, and Dr Fs assessment took 
place nearly a year later. This service will often place greater weight on contemporaneous 
evidence. I note that Dr M had also assessed Ms R a second time, a few months before Dr F 
met with her, and he thought she had partially recovered by that point. So it may be that 
Ms R had improved further by the time she met Dr F. 
I appreciate this is a balanced case, given the opposing views of the two specialists. 
However, for the reasons Ive stated, I find that Ms R was incapacitated according to the 
policy terms. I therefore require Zurich to pay the claim.
I also note that Ms R was later assessed by a third consultant psychiatrist (Dr B) in January 
2023. He thought Ms R had suffered from a major depressive illness (which had since 
resolved). This was some time after the end of the deferred period, so I have not relied on 
this to reach my finding that Ms R was incapacitated. I only mention it because it does go 
against Zurichs view that Dr M was the only doctor to conclude that Ms R had a depressive 
illness rather than stress.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Assurance Ltd to accept the 
claim. It should pay backdated benefit due in line with the policy terms. Interest should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit payment should have 
been paid until the date of settlement*. 
*If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms R how much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman