DRN-2679706
The complaint
Mr B is represented by his solicitors. In the main, he says Interactive Investor Services 
Limited (IISL) beached his General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rights; that it did 
so (in ways specified within his solicitors submissions) through unauthorised access into his 
trading account; and that, in the course of that unauthorised access, it also conducted 
unauthorised transactions and withdrawals within the account.
What happened
The summary of events is as follows:
On 14 August 2019 Mr B placed a number of trades to buy SG76 shares through his 
IISL account. The displayed prices were £47.70 and £49.20 per share at the relevant 
times. A trade order that was placed at the former price was manually executed by 
IISL and it says the execution was done at the erroneous price of 47.7p per share. 
IISL says as 47.7p was 100 times less than the correct price, the execution resulted 
in the allocation of shares to Mr Bs account that were 100 times more than they 
should have been  it says, at the correct price (of £47.70 per share) 41 shares were 
due; at the erroneous price (of 47.7p per share) 4,184 shares were allocated to him.
Later, on the same date, Mr B sold some of his SG76 shareholding  including all the 
shares IISL says were wrongly priced  for proceeds of around £200,000. 
Mr B reinvested some of these proceeds in another set of purchase trades  he says 
around £150,000 to £160,000 was reinvested in this way between 14 and 16 August 
2019; he says all the trades were duly executed by IISL; and he notes that he made 
cash withdrawals from the remainder of the proceeds on 16 August which were also 
processed/granted by IISL.
Mr Bs allegations are that at some point on 16 August IISL committed the unauthorised 
access into his account that he has cited; that it breached his GDPR rights by manipulating 
history, records and data in the account; and that it did so with financial detriment to him 
when it  
6. Deleted all records of the original purchase of the Purchased Shares from both the 
settlement
and transaction histones,
7 Deleted all records of the original crediting of the proceeds from the Sold Shares (contract 
code
MGQVM9) from both the settlement and transaction histones,
8 Amended the transaction history of the Purchased Shares to reduce the number of shares
purchased from 4,184 to 41,
9 Amended the transaction history to effect a sale of 335 shares for a total sum of £16,009 
65 and
then deleted the contract note for this new sale from our Clients document history, and
10 Sold a number of shares that were totally unrelated to the Purchased Shares
Mr Bs solicitors also highlight that the above was done first, before IISL sent him a message 
about what had been done. Overall, they have claimed as follows:
As a result of IIS actions outlined above, our Clients losses include
1 The proceeds of the sale of the Sold Shares in the sum of £203,967 72,
2 Finance charges,
3 Loss of profits (including but not limited to the 1 6% increase on the 210 DAX SG76 shares 
with
an estimated market value of £12,000 00),
4 Wasted time costs, and
5 Legal costs
IISL disputes the complaint and it informs us that Mr B and his solicitors have initiated, or 
sought to initiate, parallel litigation in the courts pursuing the same claim(s).  It shared a copy 
of its solicitors response to the litigation notice from his solicitors. Within it, IISLs solicitors 
said:
 
Your client has no legitimate complaint; 
He has no cause of action against our client; 
He has suffered no loss; 
Our client has already offered the sum of £500 as an ex gratia payment and that offer 
remains open; 
There are no circumstances under which our client will increase that offer; 
Should your client decide to attempt to bring proceedings based upon the facts set 
out in your letter of 20 January, our client will defend them; and 
Our client will seek to recover the full extent of its litigation costs from your client and 
will fully enforce any costs award.
The solicitors also summarised IISLs position on the price error, on how that resulted in 
equally erroneous profit taken by Mr B from the trades, on how IISL was/is entitled in law to 
recover the erroneous profit and on how, in doing so, IISL also acted in line with clauses 20 
and 21 of the terms agreed for Mr Bs account. 
Clauses 20 and 21 include the following:
20.1 At any time that we consider reasonably necessary or desirable including without 
limitation, if you
fail to make any payment or to deliver any investments or transfer documents due to us at 
the due
time for payment or delivery then we reserve the right, without prior notice to you, to;
20.1.1 treat any outstanding transaction as having been cancelled and terminated;
20.1.2 use all money held or debts due to you from any party including ourselves in relation 
to the
Services under these Terms, or any investment, asset or transaction hereunder;
20.1.3 arrange the sale of investments to provide funds to cover any outstanding amount in
accordance with clause 21 below; and/or
20.1.4 close out, replace or reverse any such transaction or take, or refrain from taking, such
other action at such times and in such manner as we reasonably consider necessary or
appropriate to cover, reduce or eliminate loss or liability under or in respect of any contract,
positions or commitments.21.1 All of your cash and investments in your Account(s) are subject to a general charge 
(which is a
type of security interest) in our favour to cover any outstanding amounts you may owe to us 
for provision of the Services. We may enforce these rights against your cash or investments 
against you in accordance with this clause 21 and, where it is reasonable to do so, we may 
enforce these rights against your representatives.
21.2 If you do not pay when due any amount owed by you to us then we may sell any of your 
assets held by us to pay off the amount due and any additional costs reasonably incurred.
21.3 If we have to pay or repay any money from any Account you hold with us or our 
affiliates or deliver or redeliver any investment, it will be conditional upon there being no 
amounts owed to us by you under these Terms.
21.4 We shall also have the right to:
a retain possession of the cash and investments which we or our nominees may hold for 
you, as security for any outstanding amounts which you may owe to us; and
b in such circumstances, use the cash or convert the investments into cash on such terms
(including as to price) as we consider appropriate and to apply and set-off the proceeds of
such use or conversion as set out in this clause 21.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He considered that Mr B seeks to benefit from a clear and obvious error and that 
could not reasonably be upheld; that IISL was entitled to intervene and reverse the profits 
from the error as it did; that those profits did not represent his economic interest, because 
they were made in error, and to say otherwise would be a misrepresentation; that IISL has 
behaved correctly by reversing all the elements that flowed from the price error; that it did 
not need Mr Bs consent or agreement to intervene; and that it has recognised his feelings 
about the matter by way of the £500 offer/payment.
Mr Bs solicitors disagreed with this outcome. In the main, they maintained his overall 
position (and associated arguments) in the complaint; and they said  IISLs Terms of 
Service do not permit IISL to cancel any transactions on the grounds that it makes a mistake 
nor do they permit IISL to make adjustments to our clients trading account without his 
authority. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. I incorporate those reasons into this decision. I do not uphold    
Mr Bs complaint. The GDPR breach(es) he alleges  in isolation and in as far as they do not 
relate to his claim for financial loss  are beyond my remit and beyond the remit of this 
decision, so I do not address them. He has discretion to pursue any claim(s) he considers he 
has in this respect through the Information Commissioners Office. 
I also agree, overall, with the position set out by IISLs solicitors. In particular, and contrary to 
what Mr Bs solicitors have said, reference to clauses 20 and 21 of the agreed terms has the 
effect of defeating the argument that the terms did not permit IISL to act as it did. It is my 
reading of clauses 20 and 21  including the contents quoted above  that they did permit 
IISL to act as it did in Mr Bs case. As a premise to these findings, and those below, I should 
also note that I am satisfied with available evidence that the price of 47.7p per share for the 
SG76 shares was erroneous; it was arguably patently erroneous at the relevant time; as such, Mr Bs profit from the relevant trade was illegitimate; and that infected everything done 
thereafter with the illegitimate profit.
In addition to the above, I consider that Mr Bs case and IISLs defence could also be 
considered within the legal concept of Unjust Enrichment ('the concept') which involves, in 
simple terms, a party (A) making a mistake that gives another party (B) a gain/benefit that 
B seeks to keep (or keeps) and that A seeks to recover (or recovers). The other key aspects 
of the concept are that B must have been enriched by the mistake; that the enrichment must 
have been at the expense of A; that the enrichment must have been unjust; and that there is 
no applicable defence to it. Solicitors for both sides are probably familiar with the concept.
IISLs trading platform must have hosted the price error, so the mistake arose in that 
manner. In purchasing a holding at the price of 47.7p per share when its correct price (and 
value) was 100 times more than that (at £47.70 per share) and in retaining the financial 
value/benefit arising from that, albeit temporarily before IISLs corrections, it is quite clear 
that Mr B was enriched by the mistake. With regards to the mistake being at a partys 
expense, I consider that, under the notion of indirect enrichment, the mistake appears to 
have been at IISLs expense. The shortfall in what Mr B paid for the shares had to paid for  
the relevant counterparty in the trade would or could not have received or accepted 47.7p 
per share for shares worth £47.70 per share  and it appears that responsibility would have 
rested on IISL. In terms of being unjust, the concept covers circumstances in which the 
mistake was a mistake of fact  for example, where the benefit (from the mistake) is given to 
someone under the mistaken belief that it belongs to that person and that it is supposed to 
be given to that person. This is comparable to what happened in Mr Bs case, where his 
illegitimate profit was mistakenly treated like it rightfully belonged to him, until IISL detected 
the price error and carried out its legal and contractual right to correct the matter. I have not 
seen evidence that Mr B has an applicable defence to justify retention of the illegitimate 
profit.
In straightforward terms, and as the investigator said, IISL essentially reversed the 
illegitimate profit made by Mr B from the erroneous price and it also reversed events based 
on that illegitimate profit and erroneous price. I do not accept that Mr B made a financial loss 
in the matter because the profit did not rightfully belong to him in the first instance, so any 
other asset or gain built upon that profit also did not rightfully belong to him. It had the legal 
and contractual right to do so. I appreciate that Mr B would have been troubled by the matter 
as a whole, after all, the price error itself was not his fault. However, that does not mean he 
is entitled to retain illegitimate profits and IISL has offered or paid him a fair sum  £500  for 
the inconvenience he has been caused. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am 
not persuaded to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman