DRN-3479988
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the way that American International Group UK Limited have 
administered a personal protection policy.
What happened
Mrs W has unfortunately been unwell with whats commonly referred to as long covid. She 
contacted AIG about making a claim on a policy that she held. She thought it would cover 
her whilst she was unable to work because of ill health. AIG located an accidental death 
policy held by Mrs Ws son. Mrs W says this cant be right and there must have been an 
amendment to the policy during its lifetime. She made a complaint to AIG. 
AIG said, in summary, it hadnt done anything wrong. It said Mrs W wasnt the policyholder 
of the accidental death policy. It did locate another policy which Mrs W had held in her name. 
This was a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan which was taken out in 2001 and cancelled in 
2016. They said that the accidental death policy had always been held by Mrs Ws son. 
Unhappy, Mrs W complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think there was evidence to show that Mrs W had held an accidental death policy or that the 
policy had been amended. He thought Mrs W had held a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan 
which shed cancelled in 2016. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She sent copies of the Disabling Injuries Protection Plan documentation 
and reiterated that the policy she wanted to claim on was hers, not her sons. She also said 
that AIG wanted to change the policy to a life policy and increase the payments. So, I need 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I think Mrs W most likely took out a Disabling Injuries Protection Plan in 2001. There 
were changes to the cover under the policy in 2010, which were changes to the 
policy benefits. But the evidence Ive seen shows that the policy was cancelled in 
2016 by Mrs W. 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mrs W has ever held her own 
separate accidental death policy with AIG. The documentation Mrs W sent in 
response to our investigators opinion relates to the Disabling Injuries Protection Plan 
she held in her own name, not the accidental death policy. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs W held any other policy to cover her 
income in the event that she was unwell. And I think the policy documents she was 
sent for the Disabling Injuries Protection Plan made it sufficiently clear what the 
policy benefits were.
Ive taken into account that Mrs W is concerned that there has been an administrative 
error which led to Mrs Ws name being removed from the accidental death plan and 
replaced with her sons. I dont think thats what happened. Mrs Ws son has always 
been named on the Accidental Death Policy. Theres no evidence that the policy was 
amended during its lifetime and AIG says that isnt something theyd allow to happen. 
Thats because they dont allow policyholders to amend the cover to name a new 
policyholder. So, based on the available evidence, I think its unlikely the policy was 
amended in error by AIG. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman