DRN-1726627
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a payment made on her 
credit card.
What happened
Mrs S went on holiday abroad. The hotel charged Mrs S an early check in fee and for 
breakfast, which she paid for on her Nationwide credit card using her PIN. She thought she 
would be charged $25 but was charged $50.
Mrs S raised the amount charged as a disputed transaction with Nationwide. It told her to 
contact the hotel directly, which she did, but received no reply. Nationwide said it was unable 
to refund the money as she had given the hotel permission to take that amount of money. It 
also said it had no grounds to request a chargeback from the hotel as the payment was 
authorised by her.
Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think that Nationwide needed to do anything further.
As Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says that she did make the transaction, but because of the country she was in, she 
was unable to dispute the transaction at the time because she was a woman.
Where someone disputes a transaction, I first need to look at how the transaction was made. 
In this instance, it was made in person and Mrs S used her card and PIN to make the 
payment. I also need to think about whether Mrs S consented to the transaction. I know that 
Mrs S has said that she wasnt aware that she was going to be charged for early check in 
and breakfast but felt she had no option but to pay when she was asked to do so. However, 
she did agree to make the payment.  
On the basis of the above, I am satisfied that Mrs S did consent to the transaction and that 
she authorised the payment.
I also need to think about whether there were any other grounds on which Nationwide should 
refund the payment. Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a credit provider 
can be held equally liable for the goods or services provided in certain circumstances. 
However, for the 1974 Act to apply, those goods or services must be for more than £100. In 
this case, the payment was for £38.27 so under the monetary limit that applies. So 
Nationwide couldnt have taken forward a claim on this basis.
A dispute could  have been raised under the VISA chargeback scheme. There are several 
reasons that a chargeback can be raised, one of which is that the merchant processed the wrong amount. We would expect to see that the cardholder has tried to sort things out with 
the merchant first. Nationwide asked Mrs S to do this. Mrs S says she contacted the hotel, 
but received no reply.
Nationwide also needed to consider whether it could make a successful chargeback. I 
appreciate Mrs S  disputed she should have been charged $50 but without any additional 
evidence to support her statement, I can understand why Nationwide didnt pursue this as a 
course of action. On that basis, I am satisfied that Nationwide was reasonable in concluding 
that a chargeback was unlikely to succeed and that it therefore didnt need to try to recover 
the money via this option.
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed but having thought about all of the above, I dont think 
that Nationwide has treated Mrs S unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman