DRN-4253408
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Chaucer Insurance Company DAC unfairly declined their home 
insurance claim. 
Chaucers been represented by agents during the claim. For simplicity Ive generally referred 
to the actions of those agents as being its own.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim against their Chaucer home insurance policy. Wood flooring had 
buckled. But Chaucer rejected the claim. It said the cause of damage didnt meet any of the 
perils covered by their policy. 
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied so complained to Chaucer. In response it said the decline 
decision had been made in line with the terms of their policy. The damage hadnt been 
caused by any of the events covered by the policy  including fire, storm, subsidence and 
water. It apologised for some delay when handling the claim  offering £50 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that outcome, so came to this service.
Our Investigator found the claim had been fairly declined. He felt Chaucers offer to refix 
flooring lifted by one its contractors was fair. He felt the compensation already offered was 
enough to recognise inconvenience caused by delay involved in the claim. As Mr and Mrs S 
didnt accept that outcome the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
After the Investigator issued his assessment Mr and Mrs S raised concern at being charged 
an excess despite the claim being declined. This hadnt formed part of the complaint referred 
to this service. So the Investigator asked Chaucer for its consent for us to consider that issue 
in this complaint. It didnt provide it, so I havent considered it here. If Mr and Mrs S would 
like their excess concern looked at they should complain to Chaucer first. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Chaucer to pay Mr and Mrs S claim or to do 
anything differently. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs S and Chaucer have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider 
to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure them that I have considered 
everything provided.
Insurance policies dont usually cover all causes of damage. Usually they only cover certain 
listed perils or events. Mr and Mrs S is fairly typical of a home insurance policy in that it 
covers damaged caused by storm, flood, escape of water, subsidence, fire and so on.
Chaucers referred to bad workmanship being the cause. Its not clear what has caused the 
floor to warp or buckle. However, the key concern of the claim, and this complaint, is to 
consider if the cause is one of the perils or events covered by the policy. Chaucers taken 
reasonable steps, by inspecting the damage, to understand if the cause is one of those listed 
perils. 
Ive considered the available evidence. Having done so, whilst it isnt clear what is the cause, 
Im not persuaded it is likely one of the perils listed in Mr and Mrs S policy terms. Theres no 
evidence of a water leak for example. So I cant say Chaucers decision to decline the claim 
was unfair. 
Chaucers second contractor removed some of the flooring. As I understand it that was to 
remove a trip hazard. This was before Mr and Mrs S understood the claim would be 
declined. The insurer offered to reinstate that part of the flooring. 
I accept that wont return the floor to its condition before it buckled. But Chaucers offer is 
fair. I wouldnt expect it to do anything more, like returning the flooring to the condition it was 
in before the original damage. Chaucer didnt cause that damage. And as set out above it 
isnt covered by the terms of the policy.
The offer of £50 is enough to recognise the impact of an unnecessary delay caused by 
Chaucer during the claim. So Im not going to require it to pay Mr and Mrs S anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman