DRN-1872177
 
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Lloyds Bank PLC account charges and fees.
What happened
Mrs N says Lloyds charges on her account were unfair and too high. She says they caused 
financial difficulties and were disproportionate. Mrs N would like the charges refunded and 
interest added to that amount.
Lloyds says the charges were correctly applied in line with account terms and conditions and 
amount to about £183 from 2014 to 2016. It says it's given Mrs N a gesture of goodwill 
payment of £75 and says it doesn't have any evidence of Mrs N telling it about any financial 
difficulties.
Mrs N brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with the account terms and conditions and didn't 
think Lloyds could have offered any help, if it wasn't told by Mrs N of her financial difficulties.
Mrs N doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mrs N would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. I can see those terms and conditions say charges will be 
made in certain circumstances. So I don't think Lloyds made a mistake here by applying 
charges to Mrs N's account and I'm satisfied they were applied in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mrs N says the charges were disproportionate and too high. But following a 
Supreme Court case in 2009 it was held that such charges can't be challenged on the 
grounds they are too high and so unfair. So I can't fairly conclude that Lloyds charges were 
excessive or disproportionate.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But I can't see any evidence here that Mrs N told Lloyds about such 
difficulties. So I can't reasonable expect Lloyds to have provided such support in those 
circumstances.
Overall as I'm satisfied Lloyds hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can't order it to 
refund any charges.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman