DRN-2876397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE wouldnt offer them an annual travel 
insurance policy at renewal.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an annual multi-trip policy, which covered them between 20 March 2019 
and 19 March 2020. The policy was taken out through a broker but was underwritten by 
Great Lakes. During that policy year, they booked a number of trips which were due to take 
place after the policy had ended. Shortly before annual renewal was due, Mr B got in touch 
with Great Lakes to check the policy cover. During the call, he told Great Lakes that hed 
recently been diagnosed with prostate cancer.
Great Lakes screened Mr Bs health and let him know that it wouldnt be able to offer him 
an annual policy at renewal. It did tell him that Mrs B could still arrange an individual annual 
policy. And it told Mr B that it could offer him single trip cover. It also suggested that Mr B 
may be able to arrange the cover he wanted through other insurers.
Mr B was very unhappy with Great Lakes decision. He felt it was unfair and discriminatory. 
He felt the policy terms suggested that Great Lakes ought to cover his pre-booked holidays, 
even though they were scheduled to take place after his current policy had expired. He 
asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He understood why 
Mr B had been upset when he learned that Great Lakes couldnt offer him an annual policy. 
But he felt that the call handler had clearly explained how the policy worked and the relevant 
period of cover. He was also satisfied that Great Lakes had provided enough evidence to 
show that it wouldnt offer Mr B an annual policy. And so he didnt think it was obliged to do 
so. He felt itd acted fairly by offering Mr B a quote for a single trip policy and by suggesting 
he could contact other insurers. The investigator also felt that the policy terms made it clear 
that the policy ran for 12 months and would only cover trips which were taken during that 
time. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. Mr B provided a detailed response, which Ive summarised. He 
didnt think anyone had explained how itd been fair for Great Lakes to leave him without 
insurance cover three days before UK lockdown began. He felt the policy was designed to 
cover unexpected events  and his diagnosis of cancer fell within this category. He said 
Great Lakes hadnt put its decision to refuse cover in writing, or any other options available 
to him, despite knowing about the serious consequences on a very unwell policyholder. He 
said if hed waited until 18 March 2020 to renew, hed have been offered an annual policy. 
Mr B didnt think the policy terms supported Great Lakes decision not to offer a new annual 
policy. He told us that if hed known how the policy worked, he might have taken out a 
packaged bank account. Mr B considered that the way the policy worked meant hed had no 
cover for any of the holidays hed booked during previous policy years, even though the 
application process referred to cover beginning immediately for trips which had already been 
booked. He referred to previous publications and decisions of this service, which he felt 
supported his position. He believed that being offered single trip cover was like being offered 
a lemon instead of the banana thats been asked for. He felt that guidance from the regulator 
also suggested that Great Lakes ought to have continued cover, given the rapidly developing 
situation surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic. And he felt a transcript hed been sent of the 
call between him and Great Lakes was inaccurate and incomplete.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important that I make clear that this 
decision will only consider whether it was fair for Great Lakes to decide not to offer Mr B 
renewal terms for an annual policy. As the investigator explained, while Mr B has raised a 
number of other complaint points (including the point that if hed waited until 18 March 2020 
to renew, hed have been given an annual policy), Great Lakes hasnt had an opportunity to 
look into these issues. Our investigator has provided Mr and Mrs B with an email address for 
Great Lakes complaints team to allow them to contact it directly with these new complaint 
points should they wish to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated them unfairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions, Ive read and considered all theyve said and sent 
us. In this decision though, I havent commented on each point theyve made and neither do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Was Great Lakes entitled not to offer Mr B an annual travel insurance policy?
Its important that I explain how an annual travel insurance policy works. Each period of 
insurance runs for 12 months from the day the policy starts. At each renewal, a new contract 
of insurance is formed between an insurer and a policyholder. It isnt a continuation of the 
old policy and an insurer isnt obliged to offer exactly the same terms or indeed, any cover at 
all. At renewal, an insurer is reasonably entitled to assess the risk it feels a policyholder 
poses to it, taking into account a number of factors. It weighs up the risk of a claim and 
decides whether or not to offer a policyholder a new contract, and if so, on what terms.
Were not the industry regulator and so we have no power to tell insurers what t factors they 
should take into account when considering whether or not to offer cover. What I can do 
though is to check that an insurer has treated a consumer fairly and in the same way it 
wouldve treated any other policyholder in broadly the same circumstances.
In this case, Mr and Mrs Bs policy year began on 20 March 2019 and ran until 19 March 
2020. I can see from their policy schedule that during that year, they didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and so Great Lakes agreed to insure them on that basis. 
Following Mr Bs diagnosis with cancer a few weeks before the policy was due to renew, he 
got in touch with Great Lakes. It carried out a medical screening, in line with the policy terms 
and standard industry practice, to allow it to determine whether or not it was still prepared to 
offer Mr B insurance. 
Great Lakes has provided me with a copy of its internal records which shows that based on 
the answers Mr B gave the call handler, it could only offer a quote for a single trip policy. I 
appreciate Mr B would like to see this evidence, but as the investigator explained, its 
commercially sensitive and therefore, its confidential. I hope it reassures Mr and Mrs B to know that both the investigator and I have independently checked this evidence though. Im 
satisfied, having checked this information, that Great Lakes has demonstrated that it wasnt 
prepared to offer Mr B an annual policy.  And Im also persuaded, given this evidence, that it 
wouldve treated any other policyholder in Mr Bs circumstances in the same way. So I dont 
think hes been singled out unfairly.
Ive listened carefully to the call between Mr B and Great Lakes call handler. Im satisfied 
that the transcript Great Lakes sent us setting out details of the medical screening is an 
accurate reflection of the discussion I heard. I think the call handler gave Mr B clear and 
accurate information about the way the policy worked and the cover Great Lakes was able to 
offer Mr and Mrs B. I dont think he misled Mr B in any way and he clearly offered to provide 
Mr B with a single trip quote. I think this was appropriate and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I also think the call handler did suggest to Mr B that there were insurers who 
might be able to provide the annual cover he was looking for and that it was open to him to 
try and find such cover elsewhere. While it seems from what Mr B says that he wasnt 
successfully able to source alternative cover, I cant fairly hold Great Lakes responsible for 
the underwriting decisions of other insurance companies.
Overall, I find it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to decide it wasnt prepared to offer 
Mr B an annual travel insurance policy.
The policy terms and conditions
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the terms of their policy havent been 
interpreted correctly. So Ive looked closely at what the contract says about when cover 
begins on an annual policy. It states: Cancellation cover starts on the start date shown on 
Your Policy Certificate or, if later, when You book Your Trip. 
Mr and Mrs B had a number of trips which it appears had been booked during the 2019-20 
policy year, but which they werent due to take until after the term had expired. I think that 
the policy terms may be interpreted to suggest that Great Lakes wouldve covered 
cancellation of pre-booked trips if the cancellation had happened while the policy was active 
(and if the cancellation was down to something the policy covered). In order for a claim to be 
covered, it needs to happen within the period of insurance  in this case 20 March 2019 until 
19 March 2020. Once the policy term ran out though, there was no longer any cancellation 
(or other) cover in place under this policy for Mr and Mrs Bs pre-booked trips.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say their trips were cancelled  and theyve received refunds for 
them all bar the expenses associated with the cancellation of the first trip. It isnt clear when 
this trip was cancelled though; if it fell within the relevant period of cover; and if it was 
cancelled because of Mr Bs diagnosis or because of Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
advice against all but essential travel. If Mr and Mrs B want to make a claim under their 
previous policy, its open to them to do so, although it will be for Great Lakes to assess the 
claim in line with the terms of the contract.
Mr and Mrs B have made reference to past decisions and publications of this service, which 
they feel support their complaint, as well as guidance from the industry regulator. Ive 
thought about this. But we look at complaints based on their own, specific facts. In this 
particular case, first, as Ive set out above, it isnt clear that Mr and Mrs B cancelled their 
holiday because Great Lakes wasnt offering Mr B annual cover. Secondly, Great Lakes did 
offer Mr B the option to take up a single trip policy in order to be covered for his forthcoming 
holiday. While this clearly wasnt the type of cover Mr B wanted, I cant fairly find that Great 
Lakes didnt give Mr B an option to ensure his holiday would be insured. And it wouldnt be 
fair for me to hold Great Lakes responsible for Mr Bs choice not to take out single trip cover. 
Mr B has also mentioned that he couldve taken out an annual policy through a packaged bank account, which mightve provided limited cover. It seems to me that Great Lakes didnt 
do anything which prevented Mr B from taking out such an account if he wanted to do so. On 
the facts of this case then, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great 
Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs B continuing cover, or to pay them any compensation.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position, as I appreciate they were 
going through a very worrying and stressful time, I dont think Great Lakes has treated them 
unfairly. So it follows that Im not telling Great Lakes to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman