DRN-4527390
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked access to her bank account and the delay in 
removing the block has caused her stress, anxiety, and inconvenience. 
What happened
Lloyds blocked Mrs Ks account on 28 March 2023 when Mrs K attempted a bank transfer. 
As requested by Lloyds, Mrs K attended a local branch on 4 April with her identification 
documents but as the branch was closing Lloyds was unable to complete all of the checks it 
required. Mrs K was going to be unavailable for a few weeks as she was taking a holiday 
and Mrs Ks representative complained about the delay in unblocking the account. In its 
complaint response dated 18 April Lloyds asked Mrs K to attend the branch again as it 
hadnt been able to complete its verification processes. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint.
After Mrs K returned from a holiday, she and her representative called Lloyds several times 
on 27 April and were told that the block was still on the account and that she needed to go 
back into the branch. Lloyds said this was to complete the verification process it had been 
unable to complete at the first visit.
When Mrs K visited the branch on 28 April, Lloyds told her that it needed a further check to 
be completed. Mrs Ks representative raised a further complaint about the ongoing delay in 
unblocking the account and said this had caused Mrs K stress, anxiety and inconvenience, 
and additional costs in having to attend the local branch. Lloyds didnt uphold this complaint 
and said in its response that it had explained to Mrs K that further security checks would be 
required and asked Mrs K to attend a local branch again to produce her verification 
documents.
The account was unblocked on 17 July after Mrs K attended a local branch and spoke with 
the Lloyds fraud team on the telephone.
Mrs Ks representative brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and thought that the placing of the blocks in the first 
instance was within the Banks layers of protection and processes to help safeguard 
customer accounts and in this regard and that Lloyds had followed its protocols. The 
Investigator thought Lloyds hadnt done anything significantly wrong. Mrs Ks representative 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
I asked Mrs K and Lloyds to provide me further evidence of Mrs Ks visits to the local branch. 
When I reviewed the information provided, I reached a significantly different outcome to that 
of our Investigator, and I issued a provisional decision. In my provisional decision I said:
The terms and conditions for Mrs Ks account explain when Lloyds can suspend an 
account. In this case the account was suspended, or blocked, as Lloyds had reason 
to believe a transaction may be fraudulent. In this case Lloyds suspended the 
account until it could complete the security checks it felt were necessary and asked 
Mrs K to visit a local branch to provide verification documents.
Mrs K accepts that Lloyds is able to block an account if it has any suspicion that it 
may be fraudulent or a scam, but in this case Mrs K believes it was unreasonable 
that Lloyds asked her to attend the branch three times  and that when she 
attempted to contact Lloyds to resolve the matter, Lloyds dealt with her calls 
unprofessionally. Mrs K believes that the account shouldve been unblocked earlier 
than it was.
Theres no dispute Mrs K attended the local branch on 4 April and Lloyds wasnt able 
to fully resolve the matter at this first visit. Lloyds say this is because it couldnt fully 
carry out all of the security checks required as the process can take some time and 
the branch was closing. Mrs K visited the branch in the late afternoon  shortly before 
closing time. Lloyds says it couldnt complete the checks it was required to before the 
branch closed and because of this the account remained blocked. At the time Lloyds 
didnt explain what further checks may be required. Although I appreciate this would 
have upset Mrs K, I wouldnt normally expect Lloyds to explain what further checks it 
intended to carry out as this could compromise the security checks required. Lloyds 
has since told to Mrs K what other fraud prevention checks were required.
Mrs K called Lloyds on several occasions on 27 April for an update and Ive listened 
to each of these calls. Mrs Ks representative wanted to know why Mrs K needed to 
go into the branch again to provide the same documents shed already provided. It 
wasnt until Mrs Ks fifth call of the day  by which time shed spent well over an hour 
talking to Lloyds  that it was explained that this wasnt an identification issue but 
was rather Lloyds wanting to complete the additional security protocols it was 
required to complete.
The end result of these telephone calls was that Mrs K was asked to go into the 
branch again 28 April. When Mrs K went into the branch Lloyds asked for a further 
security protocol to be carried out. Lloyds has confirmed it completed the additional 
security check and the account that after this Mrs K visited the branch again on 17 
July. Mrs K is aware of the additional check Lloyds carried out, so I wont disclose 
what this was in my decision. After speaking with Lloyds fraud team on 17 July, the 
account was unblocked.
I want to be clear that Lloyds is entitled to carry out reasonable security checks and 
that its entitled to suspend the account until its satisfied there is no fraudulent or 
scam activity. Lloyds confirms this in its terms and conditions. Ive noted the 
concerns Lloyds had at the time of the attempted transaction and that it felt it needed 
a further security protocol to be followed. In this regard I intend saying Lloyds didnt 
do anything wrong.
Mrs K had already called Lloyds several times on 27 April to be told she had to go to 
the branch again. I could sense the frustration she felt as calls were dropped, and 
she was passed to several different departments. The contact notes Lloyds has 
provided shows no action on the account between 28 April  after Mrs K visited the 
branch a second time  and 17 July when the account was unblocked after Mrs K 
spoke with the fraud team at a branch. During this time theres nothing to suggest 
Mrs K was updated. So, although I intend saying Lloyds was entitled to carry out the 
security checks it did, I intend saying that the way it dealt with Mrs K during from 28 
March until 17 July  when the account was unblocked  caused Mrs K more than 
the levels of frustration and annoyance she might reasonably have expected when 
Lloyds carried out its security checks. The impact has been more than just minimal 
and caused Mrs K some distress and inconvenience over a three-month period.
For the reasons detailed above I said that I intend to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs K £200 to resolve the complaint. I said I would look at any more comments and evidence that I 
get by 29 December 2023. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision as a fair outcome to the complaint. Mrs K said she 
had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds accepted my provisional decision as a fair outcome to the complaint and Mrs K 
says she has no further comments for me to consider, Ive decided to adopt my provisional 
decision as my final decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs K the sum of £200 to resolve the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman