DRN-2758553
The complaint
Miss H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has not properly compensated her for 
the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss H took out a mortgage with RBS in April 2000, at the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
Miss H later complained about the sale of the policy.
RBS wrote to Miss H. RBS said it was prepared to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
To put things right RBS offered to refund all the PPI premiums Miss H had paid. These 
totalled £4,475.62. 
RBS also offered Miss H compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple. This totalled  
£2,703.90 (net of tax). 
So RBSs total offer was £7,179.52.
Miss H remained unhappy with RBS offer. Miss H said that she was never aware that she 
had been sold a PPI policy. Miss H says that she thought all her monthly mortgage payment 
was being applied to her mortgage account. if the PPI premiums had been applied to her 
mortgage instead of paying for a PPI policy then her mortgage balance would have been 
reduced. Miss H wants RBS to reconstruct her mortgage as if the PPI premiums had been 
applied to her mortgage. 
Miss H also complained that RBS continued to take premiums for her PPI policy after she 
complained. 
An adjudicator from this service thought RBSs offer was fair.
Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
When a regular premium PPI policy has been found to be mis-sold, Id expect the business 
to return the consumer (as far as is possible) to the position they would have been in if they 
hadnt been sold the PPI.
To do this I would usually expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums paid by the 
consumer. I would also expect the business to add simple interest to each premium at the 
rate of 8% simple from the time the PPI premium was paid to the time the consumer gets it 
back. This is to compensate the consumer for the time theyve been out of pocket.
From what Ive seen RBS has offered to refund all the PPI premiums together with 
compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple. So I am satisfied RBS offer follows what Id 
normally expect a business to do in order to put things right.
But Miss H wants RBS to do something different. The PPI premium was calculated as 5% of 
Miss Hs monthly mortgage repayment.  Miss H correctly says that if she had paid an extra 
5% towards her mortgage each month instead of towards a PPI policy then her outstanding 
mortgage balance would have been reduced, meaning shed now owe less on her mortgage 
and would have saved mortgage interest.  So Miss H wants RBS to reconstruct her 
mortgage as if the PPI premiums had been taken off the mortgage balance.
Ive thought carefully about this.
Miss H says she was never aware that a PPI policy had been sold to her and had never 
agreed to the PPI premiums.
But Ive seen a document which was sent in to us by Miss H. The document is headed 
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance Proposal Confirmation. The document sets out 
the level of cover, (unemployment and disability). Under the heading Premium Details it 
states that the Premium will be calculated as 5% of the monthly mortgage repayment.
I can see that Miss H signed this document on 24 February 2000. 
The document relates only to the PPI policy and in my view is quite clear. So I think at the 
time of the sale in February 2000 Miss H would have been aware she was taking out a PPI 
policy to protect her mortgage. I can understand if many years later Miss H may have 
forgotten she agreed to the PPI policy as memories do fade. But from what Ive seen Miss H 
agreed to the policy at the time.
The PPI premium was calculated at 5% of the mortgage repayment . So for example if     
Miss Hs agreed mortgage repayment was £100 per month , the PPI premium would be 
£5.00 per month , meaning Miss H would have paid £105.00 each month in total.
I can see Miss Hs first mortgage repayment was £112.23 of which £5.34 was used to pay 
the PPI premium. This means Miss Hs mortgage repayment was £106.89. five percent of 
£106.89 is £5.34. 
Miss Hs regular monthly repayment was £343.39 of which the PPI premium was £16.35.
So Miss Hs mortgage repayment was £327.04. Five percent of £327.04 is £16.35.
So I can see that when Miss H agreed to buy the PPI policy she was agreeing to pay an 
additional five percent on top of her mortgage repayment. 
Therefore if the PPI had not been sold to Miss H her first total mortgage repayment would 
have been £106.89 followed by monthly repayments of £327.04.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show that if Miss H had not been sold the PPI she 
would have opted to add five percent to her mortgage repayments. I think it is most likely 
that if the PPI had not been sold to her she would have paid the standard mortgage 
repayment which I note was calculated to repay her mortgage over a 25-year term.I dont think it is likely Miss H would have used the savings from her PPI premiums to reduce 
her mortgage. So I dont think it would be fair for me to direct RBS to reconstruct Miss Hs 
mortgage in the way she has suggested.
Taking everything into account I think RBSs offer is fair and would put Miss H back in the 
financial position she would be in if the policy had not been sold.
It is unclear if RBS has actually made payment to Miss H. If it has not already made payment 
then RBS will need to recalculate its offer and update the 8% simple interest to ensure    
Miss H is fully compensated for the time she has been out of pocket.
Finally I note Miss H has complained that RBS did not cancel the PPI policy when she first 
complained about the policy and continued to take the premiums.
I have not seen any evidence that Miss H specifically instructed RBS to cancel the policy 
when she first complained. And I would not expect a business to cancel cover under any 
insurance policy just because it had been complained about. From experience I know of 
cases where a policy has been mis-sold but the consumer has still made a valid claim. If 
RBS cancelled the policy without specific instructions from the policyholder  it could lead to 
further issues if the policyholder subsequently needed to make a claim.
And in any event RBS has offered to refund all the PPI premiums paid by Miss H and pay 
her compensatory interest on those premiums , so I dont think Miss H has lost out because 
RBS didnt cancel the policy when she first complained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I find that The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plcs offer is fair and has been calculated in the way Id expect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman