DRN-4198735
The complaint
Mr D complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) irresponsibly gave him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford. 
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a third party. For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr D 
directly throughout my decision.  
What happened
In May 2021 Mr D acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement from SMF. The cash 
price of the car was £12,480 and this was financed by the credit agreement. Mr D was 
required to make 58 monthly repayments of £316.35 and a final payment of £326.35.
In July 2022 Mr D complained to SMF. He said theyd lent to him irresponsibly as his 
monthly payments werent affordable, and if theyd done more thorough checks, they 
wouldve realised the lending was unaffordable. 
SMF sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in August 2022. They said they had 
completed adequate checks to assess the affordability of the agreement and those checks 
showed that the agreement was affordable for Mr D. They didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He 
said the monthly payments had made things difficult for him, particularly with the rising cost 
of living. 
Our investigator gave her view that SMF didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, because the checks they did showed that Mr D was in an arrangement to pay on his 
mortgage, which could indicate some financial hardship, and so they shouldve completed 
further checks to satisfy themselves that the lending was affordable for Mr D. 
Our investigator asked for bank statements from Mr D to show his financial situation prior to 
the agreement being entered. Some statements were provided, but our investigator had 
asked for further statements in order to build a picture of Mr Ds finances at the time the 
agreement was entered. No additional evidence was provided by Mr D. 
Our investigator gave her view that, based on the evidence provided, she couldnt say that 
SMF wouldve discovered anything in reasonable and proportionate checks that wouldve 
caused the agreement to be unaffordable. So, she didnt ask them to do anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case afresh. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint. 
SMF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that SMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was affordable for Mr D before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would 
be able to repay his loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would be 
able to repay his loan sustainably? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds case. 
SMF said they calculated Mr Ds affordability by deducting his living expenses and credit 
commitments from his monthly income. They used payslips provided by Mr D, his credit 
history and an estimate of hiss living expenses using statistical data. 
Ive seen evidence of the credit check completed by SMF. This shows that Mr D had 
previously defaulted on four arrangements, but these had been settled three or more years 
before the application. The check also showed that Mr D had an ongoing payment 
arrangement for his mortgage payments. 
 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think SMF completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay the loan affordably. I say that because Mr D 
was in a payment arrangement for his mortgage, suggesting that he may have been 
experiencing some financial difficulty at the time of applying for the agreement with SMF. So, 
I think SMF needed to do more than use an estimate of his living expenses to assess Mr Ds 
affordability before granting the lending. 
Would checks have shown that Mr D would be able to repay the loan sustainably? 
Mr D has provided some bank statements from the time of the agreement being entered. 
Having reviewed these, I dont think they contain enough information to establish what Mr 
Ds daily living and committed expenditure at the time would have likely been. This is 
because the bank statements provided show very little committed monthly expenses and there are transfers of large sums each month from other accounts for which bank statements 
have not been provided. This means I cant say that the agreement should have been 
considered unaffordable.
As Mr D hasnt been able to demonstrate that his agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that SMF ought to have known he may have been struggling to make 
the repayments due under the agreement. Further, SMF have said that Mr D has made his 
monthly repayments on time and in full, and theyve received no contact from him to say hes 
struggled to make his payments.
Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think SMF acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. 
If Mr D is having difficulty with his monthly repayments, he may wish to contact SMF to 
discuss this. And Id remind SMF of their obligations to treat him with forbearance and due 
consideration if he is in financial difficulties.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman