DRN-2872376
The complaint
Miss D complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) irresponsibly provided her 
with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss D complained about two instalment loans she took out with cash4unow as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 21/02/2018 05/04/2018 3 £150.00 £64.43
2 12/06/2018 20/04/2021 4 £250.00 £96.09
Miss D said that repaying these loans caused her money problems and led to her needing to 
borrow more money. She told us this had damaged her mental health and left her feeling 
trapped in a payment plan. 
When Miss D complained to cash4unow it didnt uphold her complaint  although it made a 
one-off goodwill offer to reduce the balance owing at the time on loan 2 by £30 to settle the 
complaint and avoid it having to come to us. Miss D wasnt happy with that proposed 
resolution so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss D and cash4unow told us about these loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ds 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for cash4unow to ask Miss D for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Miss D provided or 
the information cash4unow shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss D had told cash4unow. Or that the number of loans 
she took, the amounts they were for or the period of time she was borrowing meant her loan 
history, on its own, shouldve shown cash4Unow she mightve been experiencing underlying 
financial difficulty. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint.  
Miss D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. In response to our 
adjudicators view, Miss D said that she was in a terrible situation with money when the 
loans were taken and it was clear from her credit report that she had multiple default notices, 
debts and a very poor credit score.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything Ive 
seen and been told, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. Heres why I say this.
Cash4unow provided Miss D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
cash4unow needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Miss D before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow said it agreed to Miss Ds applications after carrying out a comprehensive and 
robust creditworthiness assessment which included searching her credit file and asking 
Miss D to declare her income and tell cash4unow what she spent on other monthly 
outgoings, including other credit payments. It said the information it saw about Miss Ds 
other credit commitments didnt suggest she was having issues managing the credit she 
already had. And after working out her disposable income, it felt that these loan balances 
shouldve been affordable for her - so it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think cash4unow was wrong to lend Miss D loan 1. The information Miss D provided 
indicated that she could expect to have disposable income of around £420, so the monthly 
repayments for this loan looked like they should be comfortably affordable for her. In working 
out this figure, cash4unow had allowed for her spending on other credit  which it didnt 
consider a reason not to lend to her. 
At this early stage, Miss D didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
cash4unow to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in 
the information Miss D provided, or the information cash4unow had gathered, which meant 
that cash4unow shouldve taken more steps to verify the information Miss D had declared. 
So I cant uphold Miss Ds complaint about loan 1.loan 2
Miss D had paid loan 1 early. And there was a gap of two months or so between Miss D 
taking out the second loan and paying loan 1. So I dont think cash4unow had any reason to 
think that she had serious money problems or that it shouldnt lend again to Miss D. 
Cash4unow asked Miss D to update the information she provided about her finances. Her 
situation was broadly the same. Out of her take home pay, after paying her monthly 
outgoings and the costs of other credit, Miss D appeared to have £480 left over to pay for 
loan 2. So I think the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Miss D.
There wasnt anything to indicate to cash4unow that Miss D had found it hard to pay loan 1  
or that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. I dont think cash4unows credit 
checks showed enough to make it think that Miss Ds use of credit looked excessive having 
regard to her income or that Miss D had found it difficult managing her credit. So I dont feel 
I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Ds complaint about loan 2.
Id like to reassure Miss D that in coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about what 
she has said in response to the adjudicators recommendation about her credit history. 
I cant see that reflected in the credit information that cash4unow obtained. But when a 
lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same 
level of detail that a persons own credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that 
can depend on when other creditors have reported information and when its been recorded 
by the credit reference agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this might explain 
why information about defaults on her record might not have been identified by a credit 
check done by cash4unow. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect a reasonable lender to be unduly concerned about. It 
was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for cash4unow 
to agree to lend.
If Miss D didnt tell cash4unow all the details of her financial situation, then I cant fairly say 
that it ought to have known about this information. And the lending decisions cash4unow 
made dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it was reasonably entitled to 
rely on when deciding whether to provide these loans.  
I accept that in reality Miss Ds financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information cash4unow says it obtained. Im very sorry 
to learn that her financial situation has made Miss D unwell. I can appreciate that her 
circumstances generally must have been difficult, making this a stressful and anxious time 
for her. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And, in this case, I dont think that cash4unow did anything wrong in deciding 
to lend to Miss D. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss D has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman