DRN-2974162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of their 
claim under their home building insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs H discovered a water leak in their kitchen. They contacted 
Lloyds to make a claim under their policy. An emergency plumber was arranged to attend. 
The plumber wasnt able to stop the leak as he could not gain access to the pipe, which was 
situated in the ceiling. Mr and Mrs H turned off the water at the mains to prevent further 
leaking.
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds sent a Trace and Access engineer two days after noticing the 
leak. He removed part of the ceiling and wall to allow access to the leaking pipe and told Mr 
and Mrs H to contact the plumber again to repair the leak. They did this but were told the 
plumber could not re-attend. Mr and Mrs H arranged for a different plumber to fix the leaking 
pipe.
Mr and Mrs H say the trace and access engineer advised the walls would need to be dried 
out using specialised drying equipment. They say nobody visited their home to carry out this 
work. Mr and Mrs H say they had to leave their heating on 24/7 to dry out the affected area. 
Mr and Mrs H decided to settle on a cash payment and arrange the repairs themselves, 
because of delays handling their claim. This meant removing and replacing a badly 
damaged plaster wall and replacing the kitchen. The total cost was a lot more than the 
settlement payment Lloyds provided for £7413.90 (net of a £250 excess payment). 
Lloyds offered an apology to Mr and Mrs H for delays in handling the claim, and in providing 
the cash settlement. It offered £100 in compensation for this. It also agreed a disturbance 
allowance for Mr and Mrs H as they reported having no cooking facilities. A payment of £10 
per day, per adult was agreed for a period of 21 days. 
Mr and Mrs H were not happy with this outcome and contacted this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. She initially decided to uphold their complaint asking Lloyds to 
increase its compensation to £200 and pay the cost of works to repair the wall. This was 
appealed by Lloyds, as it felt this work was factored into the payment it had provided.
Our investigator reviewed this information and decided Lloyds payment had been fair. But 
she maintained her decision to increase the compensation payment to £200. Mr and Mrs H 
again disagreed with this outcome.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. For ease of reading I have 
split my decision into the relevant headings.
Leak/Plumber 
After Mr and Mrs H first contacted Lloyds a plumber attended but was not able to fix the leak. 
They explained this was because the leaking pipe was concealed behind the kitchen 
ceiling/wall. My understanding is that Mr and Mrs H had some other cover, possibly a home 
emergency policy in place. 
The plumber that was sent to investigate/fix the leak was not associated with the building 
insurance policy with Lloyds. Lloyds policy covers Mr and Mrs H for damages resulting from 
an escape of water. However, the policy terms do not include cover for fixing the leak. 
I note Lloyds sent a trace and access engineer to find where the leak originated. The 
relevant section of the terms says:
Well pay you up to the limit shown in the policy summary for any one claim for the 
necessary and reasonable costs you incur to find the source of damage to your home cause 
by:
Escape of water from a fixed water, drainage or heating installation
Escape of water from a fixed oil-fired heating installation  
Accidental damage to cables, pipes underground drain pipes or tanks providing 
services to and from your home that youre responsible for.   
Based on this it is clear Lloyds acted in line with the terms of the policy. It instructed a trace 
and access engineer to find the source of the damage as required above.
 
There does appear to have been some confusion around this point. Lloyds final decision 
letter says Mr and Mrs H didnt wish for a plumber to attend. However, they say this wasnt 
the case. They raised concerns that the plumber did not fix the fault or agree to return when 
the pipe had been exposed.
 
Our investigator queried this point with Lloyds. It says it directed Mr and Mrs H to use any 
home emergency cover, if this was in place. It says it doesnt provide this cover for Mr and 
Mrs H and if cover wasnt in place they would need to pay for a plumber themselves.
The pertinent point here is the buildings and contents insurance Mr and Mrs H have with 
Lloyds doesnt provide for, or cover the cost of, a plumber fixing the leak. I dont think Lloyds 
behaved unfairly in relying on the terms of the policy here. But, on balance of the evidence 
provided, I do think communication could have been clearer on this point from Lloyds when 
the claim was first made. I will comment further on this point under the heading of claims 
handling. 
 
Settlement payment
I note Mr and Mrs Hs comments that they felt it necessary to request a settlement payment 
due to Lloyds delays and poor handling of their claim. The company calculated the 
settlement figure for £7,413.90, which it communicated to Mr and Mrs H in November 2020. 
Lloyds explains this figure included a 50% contribution toward the cost of replacing 
undamaged items. 
Mr and Mrs H were not happy with this amount as it was significantly less than the cost, they 
were to incur in arranging for work to be carried out. 
 
Lloyds explains its settlement offer was based on an assessment of the damage caused and 
what it would have to pay to put it right using its own contractors. This is set out in a 
schedule of works document, which I have seen. 
 
I note Mr and Mrs Hs view that the settlement payment is inadequate. However, it hasnt 
been demonstrated that damaged items, that should be included in the assessment, havent 
been. Similarly, I have not seen evidence that shows the amounts specified for the work are 
unreasonable. 
Having reviewed the schedule of works, this appears to reflect the parts of the kitchen 
damaged by the leak and sets out the costs Lloyds would incur to effect repairs.
 
I note there was some discussion between our investigator and Lloyds as to whether the 
works included the cost of removal and reinstatement of the damaged wall. However, Im 
satisfied this was included. The costings include reference to the removal works, as well as 
re-plastering, tiling and painting of this area.
The policy terms say: 
How we settle claims
Buildings, contents and personal possession claims  We may repair, reinstate or replace 
your damaged propertyWhere we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred 
supplier, but we agree to pay a cash alternative settlement, then payment will not be more 
than the amount we would have paid our preferred supplier.
 
Matching sets, suites and carpets - An individual item thats part of a matching set of items 
or suite of furniture, sanitary ware or other bathroom fittings is classed as a single item. Well 
pay you for individual damaged items but not for undamaged companion pieces.
 
Mr and Mrs H have chosen to strip out and replace their kitchen in full. However,  
the policy only covers replacement of damaged items. Sections of the kitchen were left 
undamaged, and although Lloyds has included a 50% contribution towards these 
undamaged items, its not expected that the full cost of the undamaged sections will be 
included in the settlement payment.
 
In these circumstances we take the view that its reasonable to expect the customer to be 
compensated. If sections of the kitchen were replaced, and others not, this will likely result in 
a mis-match of finishes. We consider a compromise is fair, and the company should provide 
a contribution toward the cost of replacing undamaged items. This is what Lloyds has done 
here and I think this is a fair approach. 
Drying Equipment
A report was produced when Lloyds arranged for the leaking pipe to be found and exposed. 
The report recommends that a full drying programme is put in place to dry out the affected 
areas.
Mr and Mrs H say that no-one attended their home to carry out any drying work. They say 
they had the heating on all the time to help dry up the areas affected by the leak. They 
explain that because of the lack of drying equipment, fungus developed, which they had to wipe away using bleach.
 
Lloyds says an instruction was provided to its agent for the drying programme to be installed. 
It acknowledges Mr and Mrs H contacted it to chase progress during October 2020. This 
included raising their concerns with regard to fungus on the walls. The company says they 
became frustrated with the time taken, and apparent lack of progress and requested a cash 
settlement toward the end of October 2020.
I note Lloyds says it didnt send drying equipment because a cash settlement was agreed as 
opposed to it carrying out the strip out and repair works. It says it has not been made aware 
of costs associated with the drying out of the property, if this was required.   
From the schedule provided, I cannot see costs included for drying works. Its also not clear 
from the quotes Mr and Mrs H supplied if drying works were necessary, when their 
contractors eventually carried out the work. 
I think its reasonable to expect the area affected by the leak did need drying out. If Mr and 
Mrs H can provide a breakdown from their contractor showing drying costs its fair that Lloyds 
should pay for this. In addition, if Mr and Mrs H can demonstrate increased heating bills, to 
help dry out the kitchen, compared to what they would normally pay over the period, this cost 
should be paid by Lloyds as well.
   
Disturbance allowance
In its final decision letter Lloyds says it agreed to pay a disturbance allowance for £10 per 
adult per day, as Mr and Mrs H had reported having no cooking facilities in September 2020. 
It says this was initially agreed for a period of 21 days. It was later identified that the 
payment had been made for one adult, when there were two in the household. Lloyds says a 
further payment was then made to acknowledge this.
 
Another payment was made in October. However, Mr and Mrs H say the disturbance 
continued for a longer period as the cash settlement was not received until mid-November.
The policy terms say:
Alternative accommodation - Whats covered - While your home cannot be lived in because 
of loss or damage covered by the buildings section of this policy, well pay up to the limit 
shown in the policy summary for any one claim for:
 The increased cost of alternative accommodation for you and your family and your
domestic pets  
 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to Lloyds did not claim their home couldnt be lived in. However, 
its reasonable to accept there was some disruption caused as a result of the leak. The 
policy does not specifically provide for an allowance in lieu of alternative accommodation. 
However, its reasonable that Lloyds provides a payment to acknowledge the disruption and 
inconvenience caused. I think the payments it provided are fair. However, this should cover 
the full period prior to the repair being completed.
Considering the above I am minded to require Lloyds to provide a disruption allowance from 
the date the leak was reported until the work was complete. Mr and Mrs H can demonstrate 
to Lloyds when this was.  
  
I note Mr and Mrs H discussed alternative accommodation in more recent conversations with 
our investigator. This cannot form part of my considerations here as this did not form part of 
their complaint to Lloyds. They can of course contact it to pursue this issue further.  Claims handling
Mr and Mrs H arent happy with the time taken to handle their claim, or the standard of 
service they received. I can see from the timeline of events that following the trace and 
access visit, that it took from the beginning of September 2020 until mid-November for a 
settlement payment to be arranged. 
As above, Lloyds acknowledges that delays occurred, siting the involvement of several 
different parties in the claim, and the need to follow its processes, as reasoning for this. It 
offered Mr and Mrs H £100 in compensation to acknowledge the delays. Our investigator 
decided £200 was a better reflection of the poor experience.
From the contact history its apparent the onus was upon Mr and Mrs H to chase progress 
with Lloyds. They made contact several times having received no update. In addition to the 
points Lloyds acknowledges, its apparent the initial conversations were unclear about where 
responsibilities lie for arranging a plumber to fix the leak. Its agent also set expectations 
around the provision of drying equipment, which Mr and Mrs H are still unclear about.   
I think Lloyds could have been clearer in explaining its process, and in keeping Mr and Mrs 
H informed of the progress of their claim. 
Considering this, I agree with our investigator that an increase to the £100 offered by Lloyds 
is appropriate. I think £200 is a reasonable acknowledgement of the hassle and 
inconvenience caused by Lloyds poor claims handling.
I said I was intending to:
Require Lloyds Bank General insurance Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs H for the cost of drying works and/or increased heating costs 
associated with drying out the kitchen, on provision of relevant documentation;
pay Mr and Mrs H a disturbance allowance from the date of the claim until the kitchen 
was restored. 
pay Mr and Mrs H £200 in compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience and 
hassle caused by its poor claim handling. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs H accepted my findings.
Lloyds says it didnt receive a copy of the letter I referred to in my provisional decision, that 
accompanied Mr and Mrs Hs complaint form, when we asked it for its case file. However, it 
accepted my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds accepted my findings, so my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr and Mrs H for the cost of drying works and/or increased heating costs 
associated with drying out the kitchen, on provision of relevant documentation;
pay Mr and Mrs H a disturbance allowance from the date of the claim until the kitchen 
was restored. 
pay Mr and Mrs H £200 in compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience and 
hassle caused by its poor claim handling. Lloyds must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision. If it 
pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman