DRN-2220598
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, has paid him for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) on a 
credit card.
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card with Barclays in 1998. Mr H was also sold a PPI policy to protect 
the repayments on his card account. Barclays cant say for sure when this policy was added 
to Mr Hs account.
 
In 2019, Mr H complained to Barclays that hed been mis-sold the PPI and it agreed to 
uphold his complaint. It offered him £15.58 in compensation.
 
Mr H wasnt happy with the amount offered by Barclays. He thought hed paid more for PPI 
during the lifetime of the policy than it said he had. So he referred his complaint to this 
service. In doing so, he provided some additional information about his card account, 
including a copy of a December 2000 monthly statement for his account. He also, amongst 
other things, queried the start date for the policy which Barclays had assumed in calculating 
the compensation due to him for this mis-sale.
During the investigation of Mr Hs complaint by this service, Barclays said that it was willing 
to increase its original offer to Mr H. The revised offer was for £185.25. It was based on 
using the date the card account was opened as the start date for the PPI policy rather than 
the later one previously assumed by Barclays. It also used the December 2000 statement 
Mr H had provided to re-work its calculation of the assumed monthly balances for some of 
those periods where it didnt previously have any account balance information available to it. 
Barclays also offered Mr H £50 for the poor service he had been given in not receiving a 
response to the correspondence sent by him in November 2019.
Our adjudicator said he thought Barclays revised offer of compensation had been calculated 
in the way we would have expected it to be and was fair. Mr H didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays has already agreed to uphold Mr Hs complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. Im only looking at whether 
the revised offer Barclays has now made is fair.
Barclays has provided a copy of its detailed calculations supporting its revised offer. I can 
see that these now assume that the policy started in 1998 when the card account was 
opened. Barclays has then made an assumption about the build-up of the monthly balances 
and associated PPI charges on Mr Hs account up until the first available statement dated 
December 2000. And from what Ive seen, I think that the start date and methodology used 
by Barclays for this period is fair. Indeed, it would appear that Barclays is likely to have 
overstated the amount of PPI paid by Mr H during this period. I say this because the 
December 2000 statement provided by Mr H shows no PPI was being charged to his 
account at that stage.
For the period from January 2001 until November 2002, where Barclays has no account 
balance or PPI information, it has applied an averaging methodology to estimate these 
figures. This methodology is in line with what I would have expected it to use in such 
circumstances and would regard as being fair. Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said 
about recalling spending around £200 a month on his card during this period. But I dont 
think it would be fair for me to conclude that Barclays estimate of the monthly balances on 
Mr Hs account has been understated based only on what Mr H thinks he remembers 
spending during a period which is now some twenty years ago. And I dont think the 
cumulative points which have been applied to the account provide any particularly useful 
information about the account balances and PPI charges for that period either. So I remain 
of the view that the way Barclays has estimated the monthly account balances and 
associated PPI charges for this period is fair, notwithstanding the comments Mr H has made.
For the period from December 2002, I can see that Barclays has used actual monthly 
account balance and PPI charges information in its compensation calculations, which I also 
consider to be fair.
In summary, having reviewed the detailed calculations and evidence supporting Barclays 
revised compensation offer of £185.25, and after careful consideration of all the reasons 
Mr H has given for still thinking this is too low, I remain of the view that the revised offer is 
fair. Ive also considered the offer of £50 which Barclays has made for the poor service it has 
given. This offer was in relation to not responding to some previous correspondence from 
Mr H. And, again, I think that this offer is fair in all the given circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Barclays has now offered in compensation to 
Mr H to settle his complaint about mis-sold PPI is fair. 
If Barclays has not already paid this offer to Mr H, it should now update the offer and pay this 
to Mr H, together with the £50 it has offered him for the poor service he received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman