DRN-3929951
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the advice he received from Lowndes Halsden & Partners Limited 
(LH) to transfer benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with British Steel (BSPS) 
into a personal pension.
What happened
On advice of LH, Mr P transferred his BSPS benefits into a personal pension in 2017. In
2022 he complained that he had been given unsuitable advice.
LH conceded in July 2022 that they should not have advised Mr P to transfer and agreed to
compensate him in accordance with the regulators guidance on how to calculate redress for
unsuitable DB pension transfers (FG17/9).
LH sent Mr P a redress offer on 15 July 2022 which said the loss had been calculated as
£27,643.06. This amount could be paid into his pension or alternatively £23,643.06 could be
paid directly to him. This was the loss amount with a notional income tax deduction of 15%
(assuming 20% income tax on 75% of the funds).
Several emails were exchanged the same day. Mr P asked LH to provide a breakdown of
the calculations. LH asked Mr P to make an appointment during which a full breakdown of
calculations would be provided and explained. They offered a couple of days the following
week or otherwise, due to absence of the compliance officer, to meet a couple of weeks after
that. Mr P responded to say he wasnt available the next week and asked LH to simply send
a breakdown of the calculations to him.
LH said the calculations were complex and insisted they wanted to explain them to Mr P
either in person or over a video call. Mr P said he wanted to see he calculations in writing
and asked again for them to be sent to him.
LH responded to say that Mr P had previously confirmed he still wanted to remain a client,
but if he was unwilling to engage and let them explain the calculations to him, they would
terminate the client relationship. They said this would mean they would retract the offer
which was based on their continued service and reissue a new offer based on not receiving
LHs ongoing service.
Mr P agreed to a later meeting on 10 August and Mr P said he received calculations on 15
August. The offer explained LH had made allowances for 0.23% in product charges and
0.75% ongoing adviser charges despite Mr P paying ongoing adviser charges of 1.5% to LH.
The overall loss was calculated as £27,643.06 (the same as in July as the same personal
pension value was used). How the redress would be paid differed slightly. LH said they
would either:
pay £12,000 into Mr Ps pension which they say would attract £8,000 tax relief from
HMRC plus a lump sum of £6,496.60 paid to Mr P in cash
or
pay £23,496.60 directly to Mr P (as before)
Mr P queried the use of lower ongoing adviser charges and also noted that an incorrect date
of birth for his spouse had been used. LH agreed to change the date of birth but didnt agree 
to change the ongoing adviser charges.
LH terminated their service agreement with Mr P with letter of 26 August 2022 with effect of
the same day. Another offer was produced on 25 August. Its not clear whether this was ever
received by Mr P, however it was essentially on the same basis, albeit with a slighter higher
loss calculation due the pension values used being from August and not July.
LH said Mr P could have chosen a cheaper ongoing advice service from LH and 0.75% was
used as an assumption based on what other BSPS clients were paying once they had
changed advisers. They said the product charges of 0.23% were based on averages as well.
They offered to pay more if Mr P provided them with evidence that any new adviser service
he was now using was more expensive.
Our investigator thought the ongoing charges of 0.75% used by LH in their offer had been
fair. She said LH had told Mr P in July that if the agreement was terminated redress would
have to be recalculated taking into account that he wasnt receiving their continued service
any longer. She also noted the assumed ongoing charges of 0.75% was a reasonable figure
and in line with average charges in the industry.
Mr P disagreed. He also provided evidence that the product charges of 0.23% LH used were
only the platform charges and didnt include fund charges which were 0.85%.
The investigator pointed this out to LH who responded to say they would agree to recalculate
an offer with product charges of 0.75% (which is the cap on product charges in FG17/9) and
0% ongoing adviser charges as Mr P had confirmed he didnt have a new adviser. LH
pointed out, however, that these would be overall lower assumptions than previously used
by them.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I previously issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Mr Ps complaint. Mr P accepted 
the decision and requested for payment of any redress to be made in cash.
LH said they were disappointed that my decision disregarded the investigators thoughts and 
recommendations and that this matter could have been sorted out before going to an 
ombudsman for a decision. They said the tax relief element in their previous offer had been 
incorrect but this would have obviously been amended. However, LH said they accepted the 
decision under protest. 
In response to LHs comments I would like to say that as an ombudsman Im reviewing any 
complaint completely afresh and independently. Of course I have considered the 
investigators assessment. However, I disagreed with her findings and Ive set out in detail 
why this is the case. 
In my view a timely resolution to this complaint without a decision did not seem likely. LH 
seems to ignore the fact that whilst I mentioned the tax relief issue in their offer, the main disagreement between the parties was about charges. And this has been ongoing for some 
time.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, my final decision remains the same. 
Ive set out my findings again below.
There is not dispute that unsuitable advice was given, so I have focused on whether the 
redress offered by LH is fair.
The regulator published further guidance on their website to set out their with regards to
termination of client contracts and how ongoing adviser charges should be accounted for in 
DB redress calculations. They say [my emphasis]:
Firms should allow for ongoing adviser charges in redress calculations if the consumer is
currently paying these charges, or was doing so to the firm that advised them to transfer 
before making a complaint or participating in a past business review (PBR).
If the consumer terminated the contract with the firm that advised them in connection with
the complaint or PBR, the firm should have given the consumer a clear explanation of the
effect that this would have on the redress calculation.
If the firm that advised the consumer terminated the contract after or in anticipation of
a complaint, the ongoing adviser charges prior to the complaint or PBR should be
used in the redress calculation.
In line with Principle 6 and the requirement to handle complaints fairly under DISP, firms
should not withdraw or change the cost of ongoing advice services without good reason. For
example, if a consumer is paying for ongoing advice services prior to a complaint or past
business review, it may not be appropriate for the firm to withdraw services or change their
cost unless requested by the consumer, and with a clear disclosure of the effect that would
have on the consumers redress calculation.Before Mr P complained to LH he was paying 1.5% ongoing adviser charges which is the
amount that LH should have used in my view. Given that the financial loss amounts in LHs
offers in July and mid-August were the same, its clear that the same assumptions for
charges were used in both offers. This means even before LH was telling Mr P they might
terminate their client relationship with him if he wasnt engaging about the redress
calculations, they were using the lower ongoing adviser charges of 0.75%. So the eventual
termination of the client agreement is not what changed this.
I also think it was unreasonable for LH for telling Mr P the same day he received their first
offer they would end their relationship with him if he didnt allow them to explain the
calculations. Mr P reasonably asked to see the breakdown calculations in writing and there
was no indication he wouldnt engage with LH on his pension going forward.
In my view LHs actions were likely aimed at reducing Mr Ps redress offer. I appreciate the
ongoing adviser charges Mr P was paying LH were relatively high, however it wasnt fair for
LH to allow for lower charges than Mr P was paying them. And I think its likely in my view
that if it wasnt for the complaint Mr P made, the service would have continued at this level.
I appreciate Mr P is currently paying no adviser charges and I acknowledge that he is likely
able to find another adviser charging him up to 0.75% on the open market. I also note LHs
previous offer to pay higher adviser charges if Mr P provided evidence he was paying higher
adviser charges elsewhere now.
However, ultimately, taking into account FCA guidance, I think LH should include the 
ongoing adviser charges in their calculation Mr P was paying before he made the complaint 
which was 1.5%. LH says Mr P wanted a higher service level which is why he was using 
their discretionary management service. However, he was entitled to do so and given he 
was using LHs services this way, he might want to take on similar services to manage his 
pension outside the DB scheme in future.
With regards to the product charges, I agree that only allowing for platform charges is
insufficient and given the evidence provided, its clear Mr P is paying product charges which
exceed the product charge cap set out in FG17/9 of 0.75%. So product charges of 0.75%
should be used.
Putting things right
The regulator has published a policy statement setting out new guidance on DB transfer
redress which is due to come into effect on 1 April 2023. However, Mr P has stated he would
like his redress calculated in line with FG17/9 and given this is still the current guidance
applicable, LH should follow this.
LH should recalculate their redress offer at the date of this final decision in line with FG17/9 
allowing 0.75% for product charges and 1.5% for ongoing adviser charges.
My recommendation would usually be that as much redress as possible is paid into Mr Ps 
pension. as any redress is intended to help provide as much as possible the retirement 
provisions Mr P would have had in the DB scheme (here BSPS2). As noted in my provisional 
decision, a cash lump sum will not achieve this if not invested prudently.
However, LH previously offered to pay redress as a cash lump sum and Mr P has confirmed 
that this is his preferred option. So LH should pay any redress to Mr P as a cash lump sum 
after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid if the redress payment had been paid into the pension and then withdrawn. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
LH should do their calculations as soon as possible and pay any redress due to Mr P within 
28 days of the date LH receives notification of his acceptance of my decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it 
takes LH to pay Mr P.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr P in a clear and simple format. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Lowndes Halsden & Partners Limited to do an up to 
date calculation of Mr Ps redress with the charges as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman