DRN-4240656
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained about Capital Professional Limited (trading as Ascot 
Lloyd). They said they have not received a service from Ascot Lloyd that reflects the fees it 
has charged them. They request that it returns fees collected from them. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M hold stocks and shares ISA accounts and have a joint investment plan. 
They hold these with third parties. They said their financial advisers were Ascot Lloyd and 
they had agreed objectives with them, for their investments to be more inheritance tax 
friendly amongst other things.
Mr M and Mrs M said that since April 2020, although Ascot Lloyd continued to collect its fee, 
there had been no useful contribution from it. They said they received a new client and 
service agreement in 2021 but they didnt sign it and advised that they would not do so as it 
was not meeting their requirements (or objectives). They said they would like fees returned 
to them that Ascot Lloyd has collected from April 2020 to date. They complained to Ascot 
Lloyd about this.  
Ascot Lloyd said in response that Mr M and Mrs Ms financial adviser left in 2020, and they 
were assigned a new adviser from this point. It said Mr M and Mrs M had a conversation with 
the new adviser on 25 June 2020 and a suitability report was issued to them dated 28 July 
2020. 
Ascot Lloyd said the next annual review was due in June 2021. A letter was issued to them 
with an enclosed report and agreement for them to look through. It said the review took 
place on 25 June 2021 and another suitability report was issued on 14 September 2021. It 
said following this, Mr M and Mrs M wrote to the adviser saying their needs had been 
recorded down incorrectly. They said they did not wish to return the documents signed.
Ascot Lloyds said the next annual review was diarised for September 2022 however it was 
notified that Mr M and Mrs M had transferred the servicing rights of their investment policies 
to another financial adviser in July 2022. Therefore, it said, it proceeded to disengage them 
as clients. 
Mr M and Mrs M were not happy with Ascot Lloyds response. They said they had not met 
anyone from Ascot Lloyd and did not receive any advice from them after their previous 
adviser had left. They said they were only given information over the phone once a year. 
They said they would like to be reimbursed fees between June 2020 and July 2022, when 
they moved to another provider. Mr M and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. She said she didnt think Ascot 
Lloyd needed to take any action. She said she reviewed the client agreement and 
considered what was expected of Ascot Lloyd. She said she could see Ascot Lloyd had 
provided a service that it said it was going to provide as described in the agreement. 
The investigator said it was not unreasonable for Ascot Lloyd to carry out its reviews in 2020 
and 2021 on the phone due to the Covid-10 pandemic. She concluded the fees were clearly 
and fairly disclosed. She said she would not be recommending Ascot Lloyd do anything 
further. 
Mr M and Mrs M are not in agreement with the investigators view. They explained in detail 
what they recollect happened and the level of service they said they received from Ascot 
Lloyd. They said the adviser calling them on the phone in March 2020 was understandable 
due to the pandemic, but after that point the level of service provided was not. Mr and Mrs M 
would like their complaint reviewed. So as this is the case their complaint has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. I will explain why:
Mr M and Mrs M have explained how in early 2019, they moved with their existing 
financial adviser over to Ascot Lloyd. They said they discussed a new contract in a 
meeting in July 2019. Mr M and Mrs M said they did what was necessary then and 
their adviser took the paperwork away. 
Mr M and Mrs M then said they were called by a new adviser in March 2020, and 
after this point they say they received service that was of little use. They said they 
received a report from Ascot Lloyd shortly after the phone call in June 2020 but that 
this was of little importance as it was based on the format used the previous 
financial adviser. 
Mr M and Mrs M then say a year later they received a report from Ascot Lloyd, but it 
was incorrect with errors made in it. They said they did not wish to return the 
documents signed. This was the last review made between the parties as Mr M and 
Mrs M transferred the servicing rights to another financial adviser. 
I have looked into Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns about the service received by Ascot 
Lloyd between June 2020 and July 2022, the period of time that they have asked for 
their fees to be reimbursed.
I have first looked into and read the Ascot Lloyd service and client agreement from 
2019 that Mr M and Mrs M would have more likely than not been given by their 
previous financial adviser. This document outlines the service that Ascot Lloyd were 
obligated to provide in exchange for their fee.
On page 4 is a section called what you can expect. Within this is a list of services 
that Ascot Lloyd say it will provide to Mr M and Mrs M. I can see what Ascot Lloyd 
has provided to Mr M and Mrs M during this time. They were provided with a named 
financial adviser, and they were provided with an annual review along with a report 
and agreement to sign off on. I do think it provided a service to Mr M and Mrs M and 
this followed closely with what it said it was going to do within its agreement. 
I do acknowledge the comments that Mr M and Mrs M have made. They have 
explained why they were not happy with the service received by Ascot Lloyd. They didnt receive a face-to-face meeting or have the level of contact they needed from 
the adviser. The review documents they say did not reflect their circumstances or 
give them what they needed either. They transferred the servicing right to another 
provider because of this, as is their right to. I can see why Mr M and Mrs M would 
want to do this if the service provided wasnt meeting their needs. But I cant fairly 
conclude that Ascot Lloyd were not providing a service to them during 2020 and 
2022, as it set out it would do within the agreement. So, for this reason, I am not 
going to ask it to do anything further. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M, and I acknowledge 
the strength of their feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have 
read and the findings I have given, I dont uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman