DRN-2856127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. They were due to 
travel abroad on a package holiday on 20 March 2020, which theyd booked through a 
company Ill call V. However, on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. Mr 
and Mrs P discussed their options with V. It said it couldnt provide them with a refund of 
their costs if they cancelled their trip, but it could reschedule the holiday for the following 
year. This option wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs P though, so they got in touch with Great 
Lakes to discuss next steps and to look into making a cancellation claim.
Great Lakes call handler told Mrs P that he couldnt see a reason why a cancellation claim 
wouldnt be covered, although he explained he couldnt guarantee the claim would be 
successful. He set up a cancellation claim for Mr and Mrs P and asked them to provide a 
copy of their booking and cancellation invoices, together with an explanation about why their 
trip had been cancelled. Following this call, Mr and Mrs P cancelled their trip with V and 
made a cancellation claim on their policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It said that under the Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), V was liable to pay Mr and Mrs P a 
full refund of their cancellation costs. It said the policy only covered costs which couldnt be 
recovered from elsewhere. But as it considered that V was liable for refunding their costs, it 
concluded the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with Great Lakes decision. They said that theyd only cancelled 
the trip following their conversation with its call handler, which had led them to believe their 
claim would be paid. They asked us to look into their complaint. They also engaged solicitors 
to act on their behalf in dealing with Great Lakes. The solicitors also contacted V to request 
a refund of their holiday costs. In January 2021, V paid Mr and Mrs P a full refund of their trip 
costs. Mr and Mrs P felt that Great Lakes should pay their solicitors fees of £700, together 
with interest on their trip balance between the date of the initial call and the date V 
reimbursed the money.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
terms made it clear that Great Lakes would only cover irrecoverable losses. He was satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs P had booked a package holiday through V and that therefore, under the 
PTR, V was responsible for refunding the full cost of their holiday. So he felt it was fair for 
Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. He didnt think Great Lakes call handler 
couldve reasonably been expected to give a decision about the claim when Mrs P called up 
and thats why hed told her to send in documents for assessment. He thought it was more 
likely than not that regardless of Mrs Ps call with Great Lakes, shed have chosen to cancel 
the trip. And he didnt think he could hold Great Lakes responsible for Mr and Mrs Ps 
decision to use solicitors to recover their trip costs from V.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They asked us to recommend that 
Great Lakes call handlers explain the implications of the PTR when a customer calls to 
make a claim. Mr and Mrs P hadnt known about the PTR, but they wouldve expected an 
insurer to do so. Therefore, they felt it was unacceptable for the call handler to tell Mrs P that 
he couldnt see any reason why the claim wouldnt be paid. They said the call handler hadnt 
asked for information about the trip. If Great Lakes had correctly advised them at the outset 
that V was responsible for refunding the trip costs, they wouldnt have wasted so much time 
and effort in dealing with Great Lakes. Theyd initially called for professional advice before 
cancelling their holiday.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I think Great Lakes handled 
their claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms; the relevant law; the evidence both parties have provided and the 
circumstances of the claim to decide whether Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs P fairly.
Its important I explain that we have no power to tell a financial business to change its 
processes or procedures. Thats because were not the industry regulator. So while I 
appreciate Mrs P would like me to recommend that Great Lakes should make changes to the 
way it handles initial claim notifications, this isnt something Im able to do. My role is to 
consider individual complaints brought by consumers to decide if a financial business has 
done anything wrong. And if so, whether it needs to take action to put something right.
In my view, there are three key issues for me to decide. Was it fair for Great Lakes to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs P should seek a refund under the PTR? Did Great Lakes handle 
its first call with Mrs P fairly? And should Great Lakes pay Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors fees? 
Ive considered each of these issues in turn.
What does the policy say?
Ive first considered the what the cancellation section of the policy covers, as this forms the 
basis of Mr and Mrs Ps contract with Great Lakes. It says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-paid 
charges which you have incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of your trip prior to its 
commencement. (Bold is my emphasis).
The policy also includes a section of the specific things Great Lakes doesnt cover. One of 
these is costs which are recoverable elsewhere.  Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled as the result of the change in FCO 
guidance on 17 March 2020. So I think the circumstances of the claim would fall for 
consideration under the cancellation section of the policy.
But I also think the policy makes it clear that Great Lakes will only pay for costs that a 
policyholder cant get back from elsewhere. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for 
Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and Mrs P should have recovered their costs from V.
Was the trip a package holiday and should the PTR apply?
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be holiday contracts that include two or 
more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel 
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking 
invoice V provided to Mr and Mrs P. I can see that they booked their flights; accommodation; 
and tours through V. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to treat the trip as a package 
holiday.
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say 
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be 
provided. On this basis, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs P should seek a refund of their costs from V.
Did Great Lakes call handler handle Mrs Ps initial call fairly?
I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs P feel that Great Lakes call handler shouldve 
highlighted the existence of the PTR to them when Mrs P called to enquire about making a 
claim. Ive listened to this call and I accept that the call handler did say that he couldnt see 
why the claim wouldnt be covered. But with that said, he did tell Mrs P what information 
Great Lakes would need to see when it assessed the claim. And he also pointed out that he 
couldnt guarantee that the claim would be successful. He took broad details about Mr and 
Mrs Ps trip and set up the claim. I wouldnt have expected him to give a definitive answer 
about whether or not the claim would be covered, because Great Lakes is entitled to assess 
the claims information against the policy terms and conditions. So based on all Ive seen and 
heard, I think the call handler handled the call in a reasonable way.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they only cancelled the holiday on the basis of this call. But Ive 
also borne in mind that they told the call handler that V had said their option was to 
reschedule the trip, which wasnt possible for Mr and Mrs P. So it seems to me that Mr and 
Mrs P wouldve always been most likely to have cancelled their trip, regardless of their call 
with Great Lakes.
Should Great Lakes pay Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors fees?
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P consider that Great Lakes should reimburse them for their 
solicitors fees, because if it had told them upfront that they needed to pursue V under the 
PTR, they wouldnt have spent time and effort seeking payment from Great Lakes. Ive 
considered this. But I can see that Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs P in late April 2020 that 
theyd need to try and recover their trip costs from V under the PTR. This was only around a 
month after Mr and Mrs P submitted their claim form and documents to Great Lakes. I dont 
think this was an unreasonable delay. And from this point, Mr and Mrs P were aware that 
theyd need to approach V, so I think they couldve done so from late April 2020 onwards. 
This means I dont think Great Lakes was responsible for any delay in Mr and Mrs P 
beginning to seek a refund from V. As such, I dont think it needs to pay Mr and Mrs P any 
interest on their cancellation costs. It was Mr and Mrs Ps choice to engage solicitors to act 
on their behalf, both with Great Lakes and V. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I could reasonably direct Great Lakes to refund Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors fees or pay 
interest on the settlement they received from V.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were out of pocket for some time, I think Great 
Lakes told them at an early stage why theyd need to try and recover their costs from V. So I 
dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman