DRN-1573891
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple. 
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs E opened a store card account in February 2001. AXAs records show that a few 
months later, during a phone call, she took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly store card 
payments. 
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Es card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if shed lost her job. It 
also included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from AXAs internal records that the policy was added to Mrs Es store 
card following a phone call. AXA hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone 
call. But I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place 
so many years ago. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to 
decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs Es told us that she was completely unaware of the PPI. But 
by the time she took out the policy, shed already had the store card without PPI for a 
few months. So I think shed have realised that PPI was optional, and that she didnt 
have to take it out to have the card. 
 Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have started to show on 
Mrs Es monthly store card account statements once shed taken out the policy. And 
if she hadnt wanted it, or hadnt been aware shed agreed to take it out, I think its 
likely shed have raised this with AXA at the time, at which point she could have 
cancelled the policy. Taking everything into account, I think its likely that the policy 
was added to Mrs Es account because she chose to take it. But I can understand 
how she may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
AXA didnt advise Mrs E to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Mrs E enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs E told us that shed have been entitled to at least six 
months pay from her employer if shed been off sick.  But if shed made a successful 
claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a 
monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have done this 
each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance at time of her claim had been repaid - whichever was the 
earliest. So it would potentially have covered her for longer than shed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mrs E received from her employer. So she could have used those to cover 
other day-to-day expenses. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs E, 
especially as shes told us that aside from any payments shed have received from 
her employer, she didnt have any other means she could have used to make her 
monthly credit card repayments if she was off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. And Ive borne in mind that Mrs Es told us she wouldnt have 
wanted to pay extra for something she didnt require. But Im satisfied that she chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now. Mrs E was eligible for the policy, and she doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example, 
provisions regarding unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for her. 
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs E off taking it out. And since she was paying for it monthly, 
she could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she 
decided she no longer wanted the cover.
 
It follows that I dont think Mrs E has lost out as a result of anything AXA may have 
done wrong.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman