DRN-3369295
The complaint
Mr M complains about his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). His complaint is about 
delays by AXA in dealing with a claim under his motor insurance policy for damage to his 
vehicle in an accident. 
This decision covers those aspects of complaint raised by Mr M to this service in July 2021, 
following AXAs final response to complaints made to them by Mr M. It doesnt cover 
subsequent events other than settlement of the claim, as context for what happened.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr M was involved in a head-on collision with another vehicle. Mr M thought 
the other driver was at fault for the collision. Mr M contacted AXA to report the accident and 
make a claim. Based on Mr Ms description of the circumstances of the accident, AXA 
contacted the insurer of the other vehicle to hold the other driver at fault. 
At the time of the accident Mr M initially contacted a previous insurer, who arranged for his 
vehicle to be recovered by a breakdown firm (M). From there, it was mistakenly collected by 
a salvage firm (IAA) who confused it with another vehicle like Mr Ms. Mr Ms vehicle was 
also further damaged whilst with IAA. There was some confusion over the location of the 
vehicle before it was taken to AXAs salvage agent (C) to be assessed.
C inspected the vehicle and their engineers report (August 2021) concluded that the 
damage and the likely cost of repair, relative to the value of the vehicle, meant it should be 
deemed a total loss. Based on this report, AXA offered Mr M a settlement of £3,100 for his 
vehicle. Mr M accepted the offer, which AXA paid (August 2021).
Having made his claim after the accident, Mr M was unhappy at the time being taken to deal 
with his claim, the confusion over his vehicles location and the arrangements for a hire car 
while his claim was assessed. He was also unhappy at the further damage to his vehicle. 
So, Mr M complained to AXA in July 2021. 
In their final response, later in July 2021, AXA upheld the complaint in part, acknowledging 
some confusion and delays following recovery of Mr Ms vehicle and the further damage 
caused. But AXA said theyd made C aware of the damage, who would take account of it 
when assessing the vehicle. On the hire car issues, AXA noted that Mr M was provided with 
a standard courtesy car. AXA said that they wouldnt reimburse the cost of the upgraded car 
Mr M hired (he thought the car was too small for his needs). AXA also noted that they had, 
separately, compensated Mr M for not calling him back when they said they would. In 
recognition of the recovery confusion, further damage to his vehicle as well as issues with 
the hire car arrangements and poor service, distress and inconvenience, AXA awarded Mr M 
£250 in compensation.
Unhappy at AXAs final response, Mr M complained to this service. The issues were the 
delays in AXA dealing with his claim, including the confusion over its recovery and that AXA 
hadnt valued his vehicle and his vehicle had sustained further damage after it was 
recovered. Mr M also complained about the hire car arrangements, including that AXA asked 
for the return of a hire car and threatened to go to the police if he didnt comply. Mr M added 
that he was without a car or a settlement for his vehicle.
 
Our investigator concluded AXA didnt need to take any further action. On the vehicle 
recovery, he said AXA had acknowledged the issues and reflected this in the compensation 
award. The investigator also thought the further damage to the vehicle hadnt affected the 
settlement value. On the hire car arrangements, he concluded that Mr M was provided with a 
hire car after the accident to the date he complained to this service apart from a period of 
around a week. The investigator didnt think the gap  in the context of the £250 awarded by 
AXA  meant the compensation should be increased and that, overall, AXAs award was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Mr M said hed been without a vehicle for more than half of the time he thought 
AXA had said he had a vehicle (closer to three and a half weeks). And that he had to pay for 
a vehicle himself on many occasions. He also thought that AXA hadnt provided complete 
information to this service, which meant his complaint couldnt be considered fairly. 
In my findings, I thought carefully about Mr Ms concern that AXA hadnt provided complete 
information to this service and that this meant his complaint couldnt be considered fairly. But 
I concluded that I had sufficient information and evidence to decide whether AXA had acted 
fairly towards Mr M.
On the issues in Mr Ms complaint, I concluded AXA acknowledged the shortcomings in their 
handling of his claim, including the confusion over the recovery of his vehicle, delays in 
handling the claim and quality of service to Mr M. I also concluded that, while unfortunate, 
the further damage to Mr Ms vehicle after its recovery didnt affect the decision to declare 
the vehicle a total loss and didnt affect the settlement value. AXA acted reasonably in 
providing a hire car, in line with the policy terms and conditions, for the period from the 
accident to Mr Ms complaint to this service, other than for a five-day period. But I concluded 
there were contradictory messages to Mr M about the hire car availability and mention of the 
police could have been taken as a threat by Mr M.
 
Taking these factors into account, I concluded that AXAs award of £250 in compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
While I reached what I thought a fair and reasonable decision, given the concerns raised by 
Mr M I decided to issue a provisional decision. This gave Mr M (and AXA) the opportunity to 
consider my provisional conclusions and to provide further representations or additional 
evidence and information they thought I should consider before issuing a final decision. This 
is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mr M.
In looking at the substantive issues in Mr Ms complaint, Id first want to reassure Mr M that 
Ive considered carefully what hes said about the completeness of information provided by 
AXA. When we consider a complaint, we request information from the business thats the 
subject of the complaint. As a matter of course that will include the businesss case file, 
recording the contact with the consumer. This will typically include notes of conversations, 
email and other correspondence. We also ask for key documents relating to the case (such 
as engineer and other reports). If we feel we need additional information, clarifications or questions (with either party) then well follow up with the relevant party. Having looked at all 
the information and evidence available in this case, Im satisfied theres sufficient to decide 
whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr M.
 
While Ive reached what I consider a fair and reasonable decision in the circumstances of the 
case, given the concerns raised by Mr M Ive decided to issue a provisional decision. This 
gives Mr M (and AXA) the opportunity to consider my provisional conclusions, the basis for 
those conclusions and to make further representations or provide additional evidence and 
information they think I should consider before issuing a final decision.
Coming back to the substantive issues raised in Mr Ms complete, there are several 
elements. First, delays in AXAs handling of the claim, including the confusion about the 
location of his vehicle after its recovery. Second, the further damage to the vehicle after its 
recovery. Third, the arrangements for provision of a hire car while Mr Ms claim was 
assessed (including the periods that Mr M was provided with a hire car).
On the first issue, Ive looked at the evidence. It seems Mr Ms vehicle was recovered by M 
but then mistakenly collected by IAA instead of another vehicle similar to that of Mr M. M 
also appear to have thought that the vehicle was collected by C (when it was collected by 
IAA). It then took three to four weeks for AXA to find out what had happened (and for IAA to 
acknowledge their mistake) and for the vehicle to be taken to C. 
Thinking about this, the initial recovery seems to have been arranged by Mr Ms previous 
insurer (although its not clear why they would have done this if Mr M was no longer insured 
with them). From their case notes, AXA then contacted the previous insurer to find out the 
location of the vehicle, but AXA didnt get a timely response. It seems Mr M then confirmed 
the recovery by M. I think in the circumstances of the accident  which I can see from 
photographs of his vehicle was substantial  it will have been very distressing for Mr M. So I 
can understand why he may have arranged for the recovery through his previous insurer.
 
It was also unfortunate that Mr Ms vehicle was mistakenly collected by IAA. It also seems to 
have taken them some time to acknowledge the fact, and for the vehicle to be taken to C for 
assessment. However, I think that  as theyve acknowledged in their final response  AXA 
could have done more to locate the vehicle and arrange for it to be assessed by C. 
Consequently, this meant delay in assessing Mr Ms claim. I think its right that Mr M should 
be compensated for this and Ill consider separately what would be fair and reasonable 
compensation in the light of my conclusions on the other issues in Mr Ms complaint.
 
On the second issue, further damage to Mr Ms vehicle, I agree it was very unfortunate that 
his vehicle suffered further damage while with IAA. It seems the vehicle fell off a forklift truck, 
damaging the rear. In their final response, AXA said theyd asked C to take this into account 
when assessing Mr Ms vehicle. Looking at Cs report following the inspection, its clear the 
severity of the damage meant it was a deemed a total loss. But the report (and comments 
from AXA before the inspection) indicates the vehicle would have been a total loss even 
without the further damage, due to the damage to the front of the vehicle from the collision.
 
Cs report also includes valuation figures for the vehicle from two recognised industry 
sources. The figures give values based on the model, age and mileage of the vehicle. These 
values were reflected in the settlement offer made by AXA (and accepted by Mr M). Its clear 
the settlement value wasnt affected by the further damage, so Ive concluded that it hasnt 
led to any financial loss for Mr M. He received the same settlement value that he would have 
done had the further damage not occurred.
On the third issue, the hire car arrangements, from the evidence Ive seen Mr M was initially 
provided with a basic courtesy car for 14 days, starting two days after the accident. This was Mr Ms entitlement under the terms of his policy. However, at the end of the 14 days, there 
was still confusion over the location of his vehicle (as noted above) and AXA initially sought 
to end the hire as Mr M had used his 14-day entitlement. Following discussion with Mr M 
after his raising concerns that he would be left without a vehicle and that his claim hadnt 
been settled, AXA initially agreed to a further three days hire (starting from five days after the 
end of the initial 14-day hire period). 
As that second period neared its end, Mr M contacted AXA, unhappy at the continuing 
delays in his claim being assessed and saying that he had been told by an AXA call handler 
that he could keep the hire car until his claim was settled. AXAs case notes indicate that Mr 
M was told that his hire period was ending and that should he not return (or keep) the vehicle 
after the hire period ended then the hire company would report this matter to the police. 
Given Mr Ms unhappiness at the delays to his claim, AXAs case notes then indicate that 
they awarded Mr a further, compensatory 14-day hire period. The subsequent hire company 
invoice indicates that this ran from the same date as the initial three-day hire period 
previously agreed (that is, five days after the end of the first 14-day hire period). The second 
period ran to the beginning of August, after the date that Mr M complained to this service.
From this sequence of events, it appears Mr M didnt have access to a hire car for five days. 
In the circumstances of the case, given the confusion about the location of his vehicle and 
the consequent delay assessing his claim, I think it was fair for AXA to extend the hire 
period. But as he was without a hire car for a period of five days, when I think it would have 
been reasonable for him to be provided with one, Ill consider this separately in the context of 
AXAs compensation award (and the other issues of his complaint).
As one of Mr Ms points of complaint was that he was asked to return the hire car and 
threatened with going to the police if he didnt. I havent had access to any call recordings 
that may cover the discussions between AXA and Mr M, so I cant say exactly what took 
place. But it appears that there was some difference of view about the hire car arrangements 
and Mr M says he was told that he could have a car until his claim was settled. Ive also 
seen an email from AXA to Mr M telling him that he could keep the hire car until the hire 
team at AXA contacted Mr M to advise him to return the hire car. That appears not to have 
been what AXA separately thought was his entitlement under the policy. 
The reference to the matter being referred to the police (by the hire company) could have 
been a statement of what might happen should Mr M still have the hire car after the hire 
period ended. Its arguable that this would be no different to the situation where a hire car 
isnt returned by a customer at the end of a hire period. But in any event, AXA then agreed to 
extend the hire period by a further 14 days. Ive concluded that there was some confusion 
about the hire car arrangements, and I can understand why Mr M thinks he was told 
contradictory things by AXA. The reference to the police may have been a factual one in the 
event a hire car wasnt returned at the end of a hire period, but again I can understand that 
this may not have been how it seemed to Mr M. Again, Ill consider this in the context of 
AXAs compensation award (and the other issues of complaint).
On the point about the size of the hire car, Mr Ms entitlement under the terms and 
conditions of his policy was for a basic courtesy car. While Mr M thought it too small for his 
needs (and paid for an upgraded car) as AXA provided a hire car in line with the level of 
cover under the terms and conditions of his policy, Ive concluded that they didnt act 
unreasonably.
Given my conclusions about these issues, Ive thought carefully about what a fair a and 
reasonable outcome would be. AXA awarded Mr M £250 compensation in recognition of the 
recovery confusion, further damage caused to the vehicle as well as issues with the hire car arrangements and poor service, distress and inconvenience. Ive also noted that, prior to 
this, AXA also awarded Mr M £150 compensation in response to a separate complaint he 
made to them about a lack of communication and not calling him back when they said they 
would. Thinking about the delays that he experienced along with the gap in hire car 
provision, then on the latter point the invoices for the hire car indicate a daily cost (to AXA) of 
just under £13. For a five-day gap that would be a cost of £65. Adding in an element for the 
delays, distress and inconvenience then I think an overall figure of £250 is fair compensation 
(in addition to the £150 awarded separately).
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that AXA acknowledged the shortcomings in 
how they handled Mr Ms claim, including the confusion over the recovery of his vehicle and 
the consequent delays in handling his claim and the quality of service provided to Mr M. 
While unfortunate that Mr Ms vehicle suffered further damage after its recovery, this didnt 
affect the decision to declare the vehicle a total loss and didnt affect the settlement value for 
the vehicle. AXA acted reasonably in providing a hire car, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, for the period from the accident to Mr Ms complaint to this service, 
other than for a five-day period between one 14 day hire period and the subsequent period. 
But there were contradictory messages about the hire car availability to Mr M and mention of 
the police could have been taken as a threat by Mr M. 
Taking these factors into account, I think their award of £250 in compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
AXA didnt provide any further evidence or representations by the date requested.
Mr M responded initially to say that none of the information [contained in the provisional 
decision] was correct and that we had the paperwork to support the correct information. 
Given Mr Ms response, I provided a further period for him to set out specifically which 
aspects of the provisional decision he thought were incorrect (or based on incorrect 
information). This would enable me to consider further the findings and conclusions in my 
provisional decision, before issuing a final decision. Mr M responded to say that AXA had 
locked all the files [provided to him] so he wasnt able to share them with this service. He 
added that if we couldnt instruct them to share them with this service, he didnt know how he 
could proceed.
Mr M also said that we should request call recordings of his discussions with AXA (he 
thought there were some 60 recordings).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms response. While he hasnt set out the details or nature of the files he 
says hes not able to provide to us, I based the findings and conclusions in my provisional 
decision on the information and evidence provided by AXA (and by Mr M) when we 
investigated Mr Ms complaint to this service. I considered I had sufficient, relevant and 
reliable evidence to form a provisional conclusion on whether AXA acted fairly towards Mr M. 
But I issued a provisional decision as an acknowledgement of the concerns raised by Mr M 
about the completeness of information provided by AXA. While he says he has files that he cant provide to this service, that wouldnt have precluded him commenting on the detail of 
the provisional decision, where he thought it inaccurate or incomplete. 
Mr M also said that we should request call recordings from AXA. I want to assure Mr M that 
Ive considered his request carefully. But as I set out in my provisional decision, having 
looked at all the information and evidence available in this case, I was satisfied that there 
was sufficient to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr M. The other evidence 
available, including AXAs case notes, provide an indication of the extent of contact between 
Mr M and AXA during the period, including the number of calls and a summary of the 
contact. I thought this was sufficient to form an understanding of the sequence of events and 
what happened, as well as the main issues in Mr Ms complaint. 
Together with issuing a provisional decision to give Mr M the opportunity to respond  and 
challenge where he thought something Id said was incorrect or I hadnt considered 
something  I dont consider that its necessary to request call recordings (assuming theyre 
available).
As Mr M hasnt provided any comments on the provisional decision, having had the 
opportunity to do so, and given also that AXA havent provided any further evidence or 
representations, then my findings and conclusions havent changed. My final decision 
remains the same for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman