DRN-2835690
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled his claim on his how 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr O had home insurance with Fairmead. In October 2020 his son unexpectedly started a 
fire at the property. This caused extensive damage to the home and, understandably, 
considerable distress to the whole family. 
Mr O made a claim on the insurance. Fairmead sent out a loss adjuster and subsequently 
declined the claim. It said as the fire had been started by a family who was a permanent 
resident of the house, this was specifically excluded under the policy. 
Mr O didnt think this was fair. He said the event had been extremely distressing for his 
family and he didnt think Fairmead had taken that into account. He also said his son had 
been struggling due to pressures of his A levels and the Covid-19 lockdown. So was acting 
as a result of a breakdown. 
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint. It said the declinature still stood, as the circumstances 
of the fire were excluded from cover. Mr O didnt agree and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said while she could see how distressing the whole episode had been for Mr O and his 
family, she couldnt say Fairmead had acted unfairly as the circumstances were excluded 
from cover under the policy.
Mr O didnt agree, he said Fairmead hadnt shown any compassion or understanding in its 
correspondence and had taken too long to respond to his complaint. He asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
:What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying how sorry I am to hear of the experience Mr O and his family have 
been through. From looking at the details of the case I can see how distressing this has 
been for them. And that this would have no doubt been heightened by the fact Mr Os claim 
on his insurance has been declined. 
However in this decision I need to consider the actions of Fairmead throughout the claim. 
And not the impact of the event itself. So I have considered whether Fairmead has treated 
Mr O fairly and reasonably in declining his claim. 
When an insured event takes place it is for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove 
that an exclusion in the policy applies. In this case Fairmead has said that the claim is 
excluded due to the fact the policy states it does not cover the following:
Loss or damage caused by you, your domestic employees, lodgers, paying guests or 
tenants.
The policy goes on to define you and your as the Policyholder and any member of the 
Policyholders family permanently residing at your home.
In this case the fire was started by Mr Os son, who lives permanently at the property. So I 
agree this exclusion would apply.
Ive also considered whether Fairmead were fair to apply the exclusion in the circumstances. 
Ive read Mr Os account of the day, and the events leading up to it. Its clear from what he 
says that his son was under a lot of pressure at the time. And this was likely the cause of his 
actions, which I understand were out of character. 
I want to be clear that I dont doubt the level of pressure his young son was under. And that 
the event couldnt have been foreseen. However this isnt enough for me to say that 
Fairmead should accept the claim. The policy specifically excludes damage that has been 
caused by a family member of the policyholder who lives at the property. And so I think 
Fairmead acted fairly by declining the claim.
I have also considered Mr Os points about his sons actions not being deliberate. I 
understand he was under great strain and that his mental health had suffered. And this 
would have influenced his behaviour on the morning of the incident. However Ive not seen 
enough to suggest that he wasnt in control of his actions at the time.  So I cant conclude 
that they werent deliberate, even if they were quickly regretted. 
Mr O has also said that the distress that his family has experienced has been increased by 
Fairmeads approach. He says it hasnt shown understanding or compassion in its 
declinature letter or correspondence with him. 
Ive read the correspondence and I understand why Mr O feels this way, especially 
considering the impact the incident would have had on him. However the correspondence is 
clear and courteous. So while I agree it may have been helpful if Fairmead had shown 
greater understanding of the impact of the incident, Im satisfied it has met its requirements 
for dealing with a claim. So it wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anything more on this basis. 
So while I sympathise greatly with Mr Os position, I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly 
in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman