DRN-3713179
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited declined a claim she made 
on her income protection policy and cancelled the policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs L took out an income protection policy. During the application process
she was asked questions about her health.
In 2021 Mrs L claimed on the policy and, as part of the claims process, Shepherds Friendly 
looked into Mrs Ls medical history. They noted that Mrs L had taken time off work for a 
stress related problem in 2017 and had been referred to a counsellor in 2018. They said 
that Mrs L hadnt told them about this during the application process and, had she done so, 
they wouldnt have offered her a policy. So, they cancelled the policy and refunded the 
premiums Mrs L had paid. Mrs L made a complaint but Shepherds Friendly maintained 
their decision was correct. Unhappy, Mrs L made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Ls complaint. He didnt 
think it was reasonable for Shepherds Friendly to say that Mrs L had misrepresented her 
medical history during the application process. In summary, he said that Mrs Ls medical 
notes suggested that shed experienced stress, as opposed to a mental illness, and the 
question on the application form didnt refer to stress.
Mrs L accepted the investigators findings. Shepherds Friendly didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said the medical notes indicated 
Mrs L had trauma and stress.
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shepherds Friendly says Mrs L incorrectly answered medical questions which she 
was asked when she bought her policy. This means the law set out in the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are 
relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the 
circumstances of this case.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate 
remedy if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care 
not to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered 
when deciding whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and 
specific the questions asked by the insurer were.
Mrs L was asked several questions when taking out her policy in 2020. This 
included the following question:
Has your client ever had any mental health problem that has required a 
hospital admission or to be seen by a psychiatrist or other specialist mental 
health services (such as CBT, psychologists, CAMHS, or a therapist)?
Shepherds Friendly says, in response to these questions, Mrs L should have told 
them about taking time off work in 2017 and her referrals to counsellors in 2017 and 
2018. In deciding whether I think Mrs L took reasonable care in answering these 
questions, Ive reviewed her medical records and Ive also considered what she has 
told us about her medical history.
I think Mrs L should have told Shepherds Friendly about her time off work and 
referrals to counsellors in response to the questions Shepherds Friendly asked. I 
say that because the question asked if shed had any mental health problem and 
referred specifically to being seen by a therapist. Mrs L confirmed she did see a 
counsellor about the issues she was having at work in 2017. She was also signed 
off work for a month. There are references within her notes that indicate that she 
was experiencing symptoms of mental health problems linked to the issues she 
was having at work. For example, the GP notes describe that shed broken down 
at work, was crying all the time and recorded the diagnosis as a stress related 
problem.
I appreciate that Mrs L says that work-place stress isnt a mental health problem 
and Ive taken into account the information shes provided from the NHS on this 
point. But I think the question made it sufficiently clear that she needed to disclose 
any mental health problem and it would have been reasonable to disclose the 
information about her time off work in 2017 and the circumstances surrounding it.
Mrs L also sought counselling in 2018 following a traumatic incident. I understand 
that she ultimately didnt actually see a counsellor, but she consulted her GP and 
was referred for therapy. I dont think this is central to the outcome of this 
complaint because Im satisfied Mrs L should have disclosed the medical 
information relating to 2017.
Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Shepherds Friendly to conclude Mrs L should have disclosed information about the 
stress related problem in 2017 when answering the question Ive s re, I think she 
did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
As Mrs L made a qualifying misrepresentation, Shepherds Friendly is entitled to 
apply the relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of 
careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract of 
insurance it can cancel the policy and refund the premiums Mrs L has paid. Had 
Mrs L disclosed her mental health condition she wouldnt have been offered this 
policy. Shepherds Friendly has cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums, in 
line with the remedy set out in CIDRA. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Shepherds Friendly didnt provide any further comments on my provisional decision. Mrs L 
made a number of comments. In summary she said: She was told by the person selling the policy that Shepherds Friendly arent bothered 
about stress so she didnt need to put it in the form. She feels the policy was mis-
sold.
Honesty and integrity are core parts of her character  she would not lie.
Although she was referred to a counsellor following a traumatic incident, she didnt 
need to actually see a counsellor. I referred to anxiety and trauma in my provisional 
decision  she doesnt know where these words have come from and shes never 
been made aware of any such diagnosis. She hasnt been told that she has anxiety 
or depression. 
She broke down in tears at work and didnt have a mental breakdown. They are two 
different things. 
Stress is not a mental health issue  she does not have anxiety or stress and never 
has done. Work based stress isnt a mental health condition. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further information and comments from Mrs L in response to my provisional 
decision. However, they havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because: 
If Mrs L feels the policy was mis-sold thats not something I can consider as part of 
this complaint. Shell need to refer her concerns to the seller of the policy. 
Im not suggesting that Mrs L has lied or that she is a person lacking in honesty or 
integrity. My findings were that Mrs L had made a careless misrepresentation, 
applying the relevant law and what is fair and reasonable, not that she had 
deliberately lied or concealed her medical history.  Mrs L said that she didnt know where the words anxiety and trauma had come 
from. Ive seen a copy of the letter referring Mrs L to a counselling service following 
the traumatic incident I referred to in my provisional decision. It says Mrs L, Feels 
traumatised by this and says she has flashbacks and is struggling with anxiety since 
that time I would be grateful if you could see her to help her with this trauma. 
Theres also a further letter dated December 2018 which includes details from a clinic 
which Mrs L attended for an unrelated medical problem. The nurse Mrs L saw said in 
the summary letter: she suffers from anxiety. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Shepherds Friendly to conclude Mrs L was experiencing a mental health problem. 
Mrs L says she was never actually seen by the counselling service and so the 
answer to the relevant question was still no. But I still think it was reasonable for 
Shepherds Friendly to conclude that this was a mental health problem which required 
her to be seen by a therapist. The nurse completed the referral on the basis that 
Mrs L was struggling with anxiety and feeling traumatised. I appreciate that Mrs L 
decided ultimately that she did not want to proceed with the appointment, but I still 
think it would have been reasonable for her to disclose this information in response to 
the question asked. 
I cant explain why Mrs L wasnt made aware of this information being recorded  but 
it's not unreasonable for Shepherds Friendly to rely on the contemporary notes and 
records of events when reviewing the claim.
In my provisional decision I said that the GP notes described that Mrs L had broken 
down at work. To clarify this was referring to a GP note which says Mrs L, broke 
down in tears at work Been [sic] off few days now. Churning stomach crying all the 
time. To clarify, my findings were referring to this evidence, as opposed to 
suggesting that Mrs Ls GP recorded that she had experienced a mental breakdown. 
Mrs L has made a number of representations that work-place stress didnt need to be 
disclosed because its not a mental health issue. Shes provided a screen shot from a 
leading mental health charity. It says that stress is not normally considered a mental 
health problem. But, it goes on to say that stress can cause mental health problems. 
For example, if you experience a lot of stress this might lead you to develop a mental 
health problem like anxiety or depression. 
Mrs L was signed off work and undertook counselling in response to how she was 
feeling about the situation at work. So, in the circumstances of this case, I think it was 
reasonable for Shepherds friendly to conclude that this was a mental health issue 
that ought to have been disclosed in answer to the question asked. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman