DRN-3654261
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) used his pension 
savings to purchase an annuity without his authorisation.
What happened
Mr H held pension savings with two other providers. In October 2020 he decided to transfer 
those pension savings to L&G. He was provided with indicative quotations for an annuity 
based on the expected transfer values, that he accepted.
L&G then started the process to request the transfer of the funds from the two providers. 
One provider transferred the funds almost immediately, however the other transfer was far 
more protracted. Mr H accepts that L&G did all that it could to expedite that transfer, 
however the funds were not received until early December 2020.
During the wait for the additional funds to arrive Mr Hs financial advisor had a number of 
conversations with L&G. During some of those conversations she clarified the process that 
would take place once the funds had arrived. L&G confirmed to the financial advisor that 
new final quotations would be sent out that Mr H would be asked to accept.
L&G did issue new quotations to the financial advisor, saying that Mr H needed to accept 
them. But since the new annuity was higher than the one that Mr H had previously accepted 
L&G applied an auto-acceptance process and put the annuity into payment. The first 
indication that Mr H had of that process was when a pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) was paid into his bank account.
Mr H complained to L&G about what had happened. L&G accepted that it had given 
incorrect information in the past about the acceptance process for the revised quotation. So 
it agreed with Mr H that he could cancel the annuity purchase if he wished. But Mr H didnt 
accept that offer  he pointed out to L&G that he would also incur fees for financial advice if 
he needed to take an annuity from another provider. Since L&G was unwilling to meet those 
additional fees Mr H brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He noted that L&G had 
agreed it had provided incorrect information to Mr H and his financial advisor about the 
process for accepting the revised annuity quotation. But, given L&G had agreed to allow 
Mr H to unwind that purchase, he didnt think the incorrect information had caused Mr H to 
lose out. Our investigator thought that the £100 L&G had agreed to pay to Mr H for the 
inconvenience hed been caused was fair.
Mr H didnt accept that assessment. Although I am only summarising here what Mr H has 
said, I want to reassure him that I have read, and carefully considered, all his submissions 
on this complaint. Mr H says that he considers the incorrect information provided by L&G to 
have been deliberate. He says that, if L&G hadnt said he would be able to check the new 
quotation before accepting it, hed have cancelled his purchase of the annuity. He says that 
L&Gs actions denied him the opportunity to provide his final approval for what was a very 
expensive purchase.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by L&G. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is no dispute that L&G provided, on multiple occasions, incorrect information to Mr H 
and his financial advisor in the lead up to him purchasing an annuity. L&G told Mr H that he 
would be sent a new, final, quotation once it had received the two pension transfers, and he 
would be given an opportunity to accept, or reject, that revised quotation. 
But those assurances didnt give an accurate representation of how L&Gs processes 
actually worked. It is true that, once the two transfers had been received, L&G issued a new 
quotation to Mr Hs financial advisor. And that quotation incorrectly stated that Mr H had a 
period of time to confirm his acceptance. But, since the newly quoted annuity actually 
provided a higher income that the previous quotation that Mr H had accepted, L&G applied 
an automatic acceptance process and set the annuity up regardless. The first Mr H knew 
about the annuity being put into payment was when the PCLS was received.
I have no doubts that the unexpected receipt of that PCLS would have caused a great deal 
of surprise to Mr H. I have listened to a phone call his financial advisor made to L&G shortly 
after Mr H had made her aware that the PCLS had been paid. It is clear from that call how 
unhappy Mr H was, and how unexpected the receipt of the PCLS had been. But, as Ive 
explained above, I need to consider what should have happened under the circumstances.
Mr H had already accepted an indicative quotation from L&G. He had decided, at that stage, 
to use L&G to pay his annuity income, and so had instructed that his pension savings be 
transferred to L&G from the other two providers. And it is clear from other phone calls I have 
listened to between L&G and Mr Hs financial advisor that getting that annuity arranged, as 
quickly as possible, was of the utmost importance to Mr H. Had there not been a delay, in 
the receipt of the transferred funds from the second provider, I doubt there would have been 
much, if any, discussion about the need for Mr H to accept a revised quotation  it is likely 
that the original quotation he had accepted would have still been valid.
So what I now need to think about is what would have happened if nothing had gone wrong. 
I think that Mr H made it clear to L&G that he wanted a further opportunity to consider his 
annuity purchase once a final quotation had been issued. I dont see any reason why that 
opportunity couldnt have been afforded to Mr H. And, that was what L&G said it would do. I have thought about the opposite approach. Mr H has said that, if L&G had told him he 
wouldnt be given an opportunity to reconsider the annuity purchase, hed have cancelled his 
agreement there and then. But that would have still left Mr H in the position that he would 
eventually have received a new quotation, from L&G or another provider, when the funds 
were eventually transferred, and he would then have had an opportunity to accept or decline 
that quotation. So that situation appears, to me, almost identical to the one Ive described 
earlier and that I will now go on to consider. 
Mr H hasnt explained whether he thinks the annuity he was sold by L&G was poor value for 
money. On balance I havent seen anything that makes me think it likely that Mr H held 
comparative quotations at that time that suggested he could have received a better annuity 
elsewhere. But of course it would be wrong to suggest that wasnt the case  there are many 
other annuity providers in the market. I am mindful however that Mr H has explained that his 
aim at the time, by transferring his two pension pots to L&G, was to put an annuity into 
payment with relatively little complexity. So he, or his financial advisor, might not have 
wanted to prolong the annuity purchasing process by seeking alternative quotations.
If L&G had given Mr H the opportunity to review the new quotation I think he would have 
been left with two choices. He could have accepted the quotation  in which case he would 
be in exactly the position he now finds himself. Or he could have rejected the quotation and 
sought an annuity from elsewhere  and that would be the position that Mr H would have 
been in had he accepted L&Gs offer to cancel the annuity purchase. So I am not persuaded 
that L&Gs actions in assuming acceptance of the new quotation, when taking into account 
the cancellation offer it made, caused Mr H to lose out.
I appreciate that some considerable time has now passed since Mr H was first paid the 
annuity, and when he made his complaint. And that additional time, and the annuity 
payments that Mr H has received, will no doubt make any cancellation of the annuity more 
complex. But I understand that the cancellation offer from L&G remains available to Mr H 
following the conclusion of my consideration of his complaint.
Mr H has said that he would consider a fair resolution to the complaint to include both the 
ability to cancel his annuity purchase, and for L&G to pay his costs, in terms of financial 
advice, in both unwinding the annuity and selecting its replacement. But I dont agree that 
would be a fair answer to this complaint. As Ive explained earlier, I think that, had he been 
given the opportunity to decline the annuity purchase, Mr H would be in the same position as 
if it had been cancelled shortly afterwards  he would still have incurred advice costs in 
transferring his pension savings to L&G, and he would incur further advice costs in seeking a 
replacement annuity provider. So I dont think the communication errors that L&G made 
have resulted in Mr H facing costs additional to what he would have paid had he been 
allowed to decline the revised quotation.
As I said earlier, there is no doubt that the payment of the PCLS, and the purchase of the 
annuity, came as a great surprise to Mr H and caused him to make the complaint I am now 
dealing with. L&G has agreed to pay Mr H £100 for the inconvenience hes been caused. 
I think that is a fair offer in the circumstances and in line with what I would have directed 
should be paid. So, if Mr H accepts my final decision, L&G should pay that compensation to 
him.
I understand that the opportunity to cancel the annuity purchase remains open to Mr H. But 
as Ive explained above he would need to meet any costs he incurs as a result of that 
cancellation, in terms of any fees he needs to pay to his financial advisor. Should Mr H now 
wish to implement the cancellation of the annuity he should make contact with L&G directly 
to discuss how that might be best arranged.Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained above, L&G should pay Mr H the sum of £100 to reflect the 
inconvenience he was caused by the incorrect information it provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mr Hs complaint and direct Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman