DRN-4239994
The complaint
Ms M complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused delays to her accessing her 
pension fund. She says shes been trying to withdraw her funds since September 2020. And 
that she had been required to repeatedly return the same forms.
What happened
Ms M has previously worked in the UK. And has built up a pension fund held with ReAssure. 
I understand that she was living away from the UK in 2020 in country A when she first told 
ReAssure she wanted to access her pension. And that she moved again to country I in 
January 2021. 
On 8 October 2019, ReAssure wrote to Ms M at her country A address to tell her that before 
it could proceed with her request to change her address, it needed to confirm her identity. It 
gave details about what needed to be provided. 
On 28 July 2020 ReAssure sent Ms M an annual pension statement to her address in 
country A. It quoted the pension value of around £25K and told Ms M to call it if she wanted 
to withdraw her pot.
Ms M emailed ReAssure on 17 September 2020 to tell it that she intended to withdraw the 
entire pot and to ask for the forms she would need. She said she didnt have an income as 
shed retired in January 2019. 
ReAssures call notes show that on 27 September 2020, it called Ms M. As she couldnt talk 
at that point, it arranged to call her back. On 29 September 2020 ReAssures call notes 
stated the following about the call it had with Ms M:
called and spoke to PH, went through risks and Covid risks with her. PH also gave me her 
email address for sending her the LS form. 
On 29 September 2020, ReAssure sent Ms M the forms she needed to complete. Ms M told 
this service she sent those all back in October 2020.
ReAssures email said: 
Thank you for your request to take your entire pension pot as a lump sum. Please see the 
important information below about the value of your policy, which you need to consider 
before completing the form linked from the bottom of this email.
A link to a ten- page form was provided. The email also said:
If you have moved overseas, please read the enclosed Customer Identification Guide and 
return any documents that are needed.
The Pension Lump Sum application form clearly needed a National Insurance (NI) number to 
be provided.
Ms M said that she filled out and couriered the Pension Lump sum application and Lifetime 
allowance declaration forms.to ReAssure in November 2020.
Ms M emailed ReAssure on 9 April 2021 for an update. She said shed filled out the lump 
sum redemption form at least six months ago, but hadnt heard from ReAssure. She said 
shed now since moved from country A to country I. 
ReAssure wrote to Ms M on 16 April 2021 to ask her to confirm her identity after shed told it 
that shed changed address. The copy of the letter Ive been provided with had no address 
noted, as Ms M had been marked as gone away, so it appears to have been emailed. 
ReAssure told Ms M that shed need to send certified copies of two identification documents 
 one from each of the two lists it provided - to confirm her identity.
I understand that ReAssure emailed Ms M again on 19 April 2021 with details of how to 
progress her claim, as it hadnt received the forms she said shed completed. ReAssure said 
it didnt hear from Ms M again until 13 October 2021. 
ReAssures internal notes state that on 13 October 2021 Ms M wanted to update her 
address again. It said it would send the relevant address change forms by email.
Ms M complained to ReAssure on 5 January 2022.
ReAssure received the required proof of identity and the completed change of address form 
 from country A to country I - on 13 January 2022. Ms M said shed moved countries on 21 
January 2021 and signed the forms on 4 January 2022. 
On 21 January 2022, ReAssure issued a retirement options pack to Ms Ms address in 
country I. This also said that if she wanted to withdraw her pot, she should call it. 
The pack included a section on moving overseas. And explained the identity checks that 
would have to be carried out, and why it needed to do so, before Ms M could access her 
pension. 
The pack stated:
To avoid delays on any future requests, please send us your ID documents within the next 6 
weeks. If you cannot send them within this time, please note that we will need to see them 
before you can:
 make certain changes to your policy
 request a payment from your policy
It also stated that the current value of the fund was around £28K. 
ReAssures internal notes stated that it then emailed an options pack to Ms M on 25 January 
2022 in response to her request to encash her pension. 
Ms M emailed ReAssure on 25 January 2022 stating that shed received its last letter. She 
said the letter repeated what theyd discussed before, and that she was very frustrated that 
shed been made to fill in the same forms on three separate occasions. Ms M said she 
wanted to fully cash in her pension. She explained that as she lived in country I, it wasnt 
viable for her to call ReAssure as she had to wait for long periods. She asked ReAssure to 
call or email her instead. ReAssure then wrote to Ms M on 2 February 2022 to ask her to complete a one-page risk 
questionnaire. It said this was needed before it could process her chosen option. 
Ms M emailed ReAssure on 2 March 2022 to tell it that shed sent all the information itd 
asked for, and supplied proof of submission. She said it was impossible to get hold of 
ReAssure. And asked it to call her on her country I number if it needed to speak with her. 
She said if it couldnt do this, it should simply transfer the full value of her pension to her 
account. 
ReAssures call notes show that it emailed Ms M on 3 March 2022 to explain that it hadnt 
yet received a completed encashment form. It said it had only received her change of 
address details, her passport and bank identification. And it couldnt accept the bank 
identification, as it had Ms Ms old address on it. 
ReAssure explained what it needed Ms M to provide. And that it could only accept bank 
identification by post, not email. It also said it needed a risk questionnaire to be completed 
and signed with a wet signature, although it noted this could also be completed over the 
phone. 
ReAssure sent a further risk questionnaire for Ms M to complete. It said it was sorry she 
wasnt happy and that it was treating her request as a high priority. ReAssure also said once 
the risk questionnaire had been emailed back, it could then send an encashment form by 
email, which Ms M could wet sign and then email back. 
ReAssure wrote to Ms M again on 20 April 2022. It said that her pension was valued at 
around £28K. And included a guide about what she needed to do now to access her lump 
sum. The letter also stated that it included the forms Ms M needed to fill in so it could pay 
her the lump sum, less a tax charge.
Ms M emailed ReAssure in May 2022. She said that although shed sent the requested 
updated bank identification, and the completed risk questionnaire by courier, shed still not 
received the encashment forms. She asked ReAssure to promptly deal with her 
encashment.
Ms M chased ReAssure twice in July 2022. And on 28 July 2022, ReAssure issued an 
annual pension statement to Ms M, to her address in country I. It said her pension was worth 
just under £28K. And asked her to call it if she wanted to withdraw the pot. 
ReAssure issued its final response to the complaint in August 2022. It said it had received a 
completed risk questionnaire and bank statement, but not the application form, which it said 
it had sent to Ms M earlier in 2022. It said it had sent Ms M a new application form. But that it 
couldnt proceed with her withdrawal request until that had been completed and returned. 
ReAssure also said that due to the time that had passed since Ms M said shed sent the 
forms, it wouldnt hold any copies. But that if Ms M could evidence that shed already sent 
the application form, it may consider a loss assessment.
ReAssure received a lump sum application form, declaration, photo and bank identification 
on 24 October 2022. 
Ms M contacted ReAssure on 26 October 2022 to tell it that all the forms had been 
completed, but her pension still hadnt been paid. 
ReAssure emailed Ms M on 26 October 2022 to say that before it could proceed it needed 
suitable ID and her NI number. It also emailed Ms M on 28 October 2022 to acknowledge receipt of the encashment form shed sent. And to repeat its requirement for Ms Ms NI 
number. It explained what shed need to do to get this if she didnt already have it.
ReAssure tried to call Ms M on 4 January 2023 to tell her it still needed her NI number. It 
also emailed her to ask for it on the same date. 
Ms M said that she hadnt worked in the UK since the mid-1990s. She wanted to know why 
ReAssure hadnt told her it would need this from the start. She brought her complaint to this 
service. She said she really needed to access her pension fund as she was already retired 
and recently widowed. 
Ms M wanted ReAssure to give her the pension pot in full. And to compensate her for all the 
courier charges and long-distance calls, with long wait times, that shed had to make. 
Ms Ms solicitor wrote to ReAssure on 2 February 2023. The letter covered a detailed 
version of events. And said that it required the pension to be released or legal action may be 
necessary.
Our investigator asked both ReAssure and Ms M for further information. 
ReAssure told this service that it had provided the relevant documents and forms and 
requirements so that Ms M could access her pension but she hadnt returned them. It said it 
couldnt proceed with payment without the outstanding information. It said it would send 
confirmation of what it needed in order to release payment.
Ms M told this service in April 2023 that shed now re-sent all of the forms, including her NI 
number, to ReAssure by courier in the first week of April 2023. But that she hadnt heard 
back from it. 
Our investigator asked ReAssure to comment. It said that itd issued the risk questionnaire to 
Ms M on 29 March 2023 and that once that had been completed all of its requirements 
wouldve been met. 
Our investigator felt that ReAssure had delayed the withdrawal. He felt that ReAssure 
shouldve been clear about what was needed on 29 September 2020. And if it had, Ms M 
wouldve been able to provide what was required of her (two forms and identification). He 
considered that if this had happened, the subsequent issues wouldnt have occurred. 
Although he noted that the missing NI number wouldve always been an issue, he felt it 
wouldve been dealt with more swiftly. 
Our investigator felt that all requirements would likely have been fulfilled after eight weeks, or 
by 24 November 2020. Allowing a further working week for payment, he felt the payment 
shouldve been made to Ms M on 1 December 2020. 
To put things right, he felt that ReAssure should perform a loss calculation to ensure that Ms 
M was put back to the position she wouldve been in if the payment had been made on 1 
December 2020. And that the loss calculation should also take account of currency 
fluctuations. He also felt that ReAssure should pay 8% simple interest on the value that 
wouldve been paid on 1 December 2020 until the date it makes the payment. And that it 
should pay Ms M £400 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms M accepted our investigators view. ReAssure did not. It made the following points:
- It didnt think it should backdate the payment to 1 December 2020 as it hadnt 
received the required forms from Ms M at that time. It said it couldnt process the pension without the correct forms. And it was Ms Ms responsibility to complete and 
return them. It said it wasnt required to chase customers for completed forms. 
- It said Ms M had changed address throughout the term of the complaint period. It 
said it couldnt process a pension to an unverified address.  
- ReAssure said it had issued a further options pack as it was a regulatory requirement 
before a pension could be crystallised. And that it had issued a risk questionnaire on 
2 February 2022 as the previous risk information had been completed over two years 
before and therefore needed to be re-done.
- It had to confirm Ms Ms identity at her residential address before it could request 
information from her. So although Ms M had chased it between May 2022 and July 
2022, it didnt get the documents back until 24 October 2022. 
Our investigator still felt that it was most likely, although documentary evidence couldnt be 
provided, that Ms M had sent her completed forms by special delivery. And that shed noted 
through tracking that these had been delivered. He also still felt that ReAssure hadnt been 
clear about what was needed in the first call it had with Ms M. So he didnt change his view. 
Our investigator asked for further information from Ms M. He asked why she hadnt chased 
ReAssure between September 2020 and April 2021. And why she hadnt provided the 
change of address information ReAssure needed promptly. 
Ms M said shed provided the requested information. But it had taken a long time given the 
complexity of the information requested and the fact that shed had to use physical mail. She 
said that ReAssure hadnt asked her for her NI number until January 2023. And that it had 
taken her nearly nine months to get this from HMRC.
Ms M also asked ReAssure to send her the encashment she was still waiting for. 
ReAssure also provided further information to this service. It said that although our 
investigator had stated that Ms M had sent her completed forms by special delivery, it had 
reviewed its sign in book and couldnt locate any extraneous documents received in that 
period with the clients name on. 
ReAssure also said that when Ms M told it in April 2021 that shed changed her address, it 
couldnt have issued documents to her until shed completed the required change of address 
documents. It said it didnt receive these until 19 January 2022. And that it had then reissued 
a risk questionnaire, as the old one had become invalid. It said it hadnt received anything 
back until 19 April 2022. And that it had then issued a lump sum application form on 20 April 
2022, which it hadnt received back until October 2022.
ReAssure said it was still waiting for a new risk questionnaire from Ms M before it could 
complete the encashment. It said that Ms M could contact it by phone to complete this if she 
wanted. 
Our investigator asked Ms M to provide further comment. She said shed sent ReAssure 
everything it ever asked for within ten days of receiving the request. He still felt that on 
balance the initial paperwork had been sent in by recorded delivery. And that on the initial 
call between ReAssure and Ms M, more shouldve been done. He felt that although Ms M 
couldve acted more quickly, the early delays ReAssure had caused had led to the later 
address issues. 
Our investigator also noted that although ReAssure wasnt happy with his recommendation to backdate the transfer to December 2020, it hadnt put forward a different proposal.
ReAssure said that if Ms M still wanted to progress her claim as soon as possible, shed 
need to contact it herself. It also felt that it wouldve been reasonable for the withdrawal to 
have been completed 10 days after Ms Ms chaser on 24 May 2022. It said this was because 
it hadnt responded to this, and that failure had led to multiple chasers from Ms M.
ReAssure said that it was an evidence-based service. And that Ms M hadnt told it  before 
bringing her complaint to this service  that shed sent her forms in by special delivery. It 
said it had never been given anything to track. And that it wouldve expected Ms M to have 
provided this information. It also said that the first opportunity Ms M had had to query the 
lack of receipt of the pack she said shed sent in November 2020 was in April 2021. But she 
hadnt done so. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 July 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that ReAssure did delay 
the withdrawal request. But I dont agree that it caused issues when Ms M first asked for the 
withdrawal at the end of September 2020. Instead, Im satisfied that Ms M wasnt able to fully 
complete the Pension Lump Sum application form, as she didnt know her NI number. 
I consider that Ms M shouldve been aware from when she first received the Pension Lump 
Sum application form at the end of September 2020 that she would need to provide her NI 
number. I say this because it was a clear requirement on that form.
However, Im satisfied that ReAssure couldve taken steps that wouldve made the 
withdrawal process take less time. I agree with it that it shouldve responded in a timely 
fashion to Ms Ms May 2022 chaser about her withdrawal. And that if it had, a reasonable 
time frame for the withdrawal process to be completed wouldve been 10 working days after 
Ms Ms chaser on 24 May 2022. Ill explain the reason for my decision. 
I first considered whether Ms M fully completed and returned the forms ReAssure sent her 
on 29 September 2020. 
Did Ms M fully complete and return the 29 September 2020 forms?
I can see that Ms M received forms shed requested in the 29 September 2020 email from 
ReAssure. I say this because Ms M replied to ReAssure on the day it sent the email 
containing the forms. Her email said: These forms are for a UK bank account. Are there 
different forms for an account in [country A]? If yes could you please let me have those?
ReAssure replied the following day. Its email said: Can you email them back and advise that 
you will need payment to an overseas bank account and what forms you need to fill out. That 
form is only for UK bank accounts.
Ms M replied the same day that she would do so. But I havent been provided with any 
further emails relating to this point. 
I asked Ms M for clarity about which forms shed sent to ReAssure in either October or 
November 2020. Shed said that shed: couriered to [ReAssure] the following in November 2020: Pension Lump sum withdrawal application and Lifetime allowance declaration forms.
But later in the same email shed said shed never been sent the encashment forms. She 
also said in her 8 April 2021 email to ReAssure, her 21 May 2022 email and her 3 March 
2022 email that shed still not received the encashment forms. I asked her if the 
encashment form she said shed never been sent was different from the Pension Lump 
sum withdrawal application form.
Ms M simply said that shed completed all the forms ReAssure ever sent her and returned 
them promptly by courier. 
The 29 September 2020 email ReAssure sent Ms M included a 10-page form  the Pension 
Lump sum application form  which clearly needed a NI number to be provided. Ms M said 
she completed and returned this by courier in October or November 2020. But she also told 
this service that it had taken her nine months to obtain a copy of her NI number. So I asked 
Ms M how shed been able to fully complete the September 2020 form in October/November 
2020 if she didnt yet have her NI number.
Ms M said she didnt have a NI number given shed left the UK more than 25 years ago and 
had misplaced it. She said shed explained this in the letter shed attached with the package 
she said shed sent ReAssure in November 2020. Ms M said ReAssure never explicitly told 
her that an NI number was needed until 28 October 2022. And that it was therefore only after 
this that she started the process of applying for a copy of her NI number. Ms M said that 
ReAssure shouldve told her that it needed this when it received her November 2020 
package.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms M wasnt able to fully complete the Pension Lump 
Sum application form in October/November 2020, as she didnt know her NI number. 
Without this, Im satisfied that the withdrawal couldnt be completed. 
Therefore I cant fairly say, regardless of whether Ms M did or didnt courier the completed 
forms to ReAssure, that ReAssure caused a delay from the end of September 2020.
Ill next consider whether ReAssure did receive the October/November 2020 pack Ms M said 
shed sent. 
Did ReAssure receive the October/November 2020 forms?
I agree with Ms M that it would be wrong to expect her to still have proof of a courier sent 
from country A nearly two years earlier. But ReAssure said that Ms M had never told it that 
shed sent the forms she said shed sent it by special delivery until she brought her complaint 
to this service. It also said that it had never been provided with anything to track. So I asked 
Ms M to explain why she hadnt provided ReAssure with the tracking information it wouldve 
expected at the first opportunity. 
ReAssure had also said that Ms M had her first opportunity to query the lack of receipt on 9 
April 2021 but that she didnt query it. So I asked her to explain why this was the case.
Ms M said that she didnt have the tracking numbers as she was relocating from country A to 
another country and then to country I after her husband had sadly died in early 2021. 
Ms M provided a screenshot of the only courier receipt with a tracking number that she had. 
This was dated 7 January 2022. 
While I understand why Ms M cant evidence that she couriered her forms to ReAssure in October/November 2020, I cant fairly say that she did. I say this because Im persuaded that 
if Ms M had couriered the forms in October/November 2020, she wouldve mentioned this in 
the April 2021 email to ReAssure. 
Im also satisfied that ReAssure has checked its records and has found nothing to evidence 
that anything from Ms M was received at this time. 
Im not persuaded that ReAssure ever received the forms Ms M said she sent it in 
October/November 2020. And therefore Im satisfied that it didnt receive the letter Ms M said 
shed attached to the package which she said explained why she didnt have her NI number.
In any event, Ms M has repeatedly stated that she was unhappy that shed had to send 
ReAssure completed paperwork by mail, rather than by email. So I wouldve expected her to 
have emailed ReAssure to let it know she didnt have her NI number, rather than partially 
complete the forms and send an explanatory letter.
I next considered how much of the delay ReAssure is responsible for. I first considered the 
period between November 2020, when Ms M said shed couriered the forms to ReAssure, 
and April 2021, when she chased ReAssure for progress.
November 2020 to April 2021
As I had no evidence that Ms M had chased ReAssure about her withdrawal request before 
8 April 2021, I asked her if she could provide any. 
Ms M provided all of the information she had. She said that her 8 April 2021 email to 
ReAssure included the sentence: Ive written repeatedly since then via email and have not 
received a reply. Ms M felt that this showed that she mustve been in contact with ReAssure 
between the time she said shed couriered the forms in November 2020, and her chaser 
email in April 2021.
Ive carefully considered the evidence, including the recent information Ms M has kindly 
provided to this service. But Im not persuaded that it evidences that she actually did chase 
ReAssure between when she said shed couriered the forms to them in November 2020 and 
April 2021. 
I say this because Ms M has shared a number of emails between herself and ReAssure, 
which shows that she had kept at least some of the correspondence. Given most of the 
correspondence was by email, I would expect her to have a record of any emails she 
exchanged with ReAssure between November 2020 and April 2021. As she hasnt been able 
to provide any, Im not persuaded that she did chase ReAssure by email between November 
2020 and April 2021.
I next considered the period between 19 April 2021 and 13 October 2021. I did this because 
ReAssure said it didnt hear from Ms M between 19 April 2021, when it sent her details of 
how to progress her claim, and 13 October 2021, when it said she contacted it because she 
wanted to update her address. 
19 April 2021 to 13 October 2021
I asked Ms M why she didnt chase ReAssure about her encashment during this period, or to 
provide evidence that she had.
Ms M said shed sent ReAssure the completed documents by post. And that she was waiting 
for it to get back to her. She said postal correspondence with ReAssure always took 8 to 12 weeks. And also said that she was in the middle of relocating and had just lost her husband.
Im very sorry that Ms M was going through such a difficult time in her life over this period. I 
can understand why she didnt have the time to chase ReAssure. However, given she didnt 
chase ReAssure, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the delay over this period. 
I say this because I understand that ReAssure emailed Ms M on 19 April 2021 with details of 
how to progress her claim, as it hadnt received the forms she said shed completed. It 
couldnt do anything more at that point. And it wasnt responsible for following up with Ms M 
when she didnt respond, as it was up to her to decide whether or not she wanted to proceed 
with her claim.
I next considered how Ms Ms changes of address impacted her withdrawal.
Changes of address
Ms M said that she moved to country I in January 2021. But she didnt tell ReAssure that 
shed moved for almost a year. 
As Ms M wanted to withdraw her pension funds over this period, I asked her why she didnt 
tell ReAssure about her move as soon as possible. I wanted to understand why she had 
waited so long under the circumstances. 
Ms M said that after the sad death of her husband, she wasnt sure where she wanted to 
live. She said the only UK sterling account she had was in country A. And ReAssure needed 
bank statements from the previous six months with her address, signed and stamped in hard 
copy. She said this had been very difficult to do for a bank in country A from country I, so 
shed had to change her bank to one in country I which would accept a UK sterling deposit.
Im grateful to Ms M for clearly explaining the situation she was in at this time. I can 
appreciate how difficult it was to sort out her banking details under the circumstances. So Im 
not surprised that it took a while to arrange. 
However, I cant fairly hold ReAssure responsible for any of this delay. I say this because 
Ive seen no evidence that it treated Ms M unfairly or that it didnt follow its usual processes. 
And I can see why it couldnt process a pension to an unverified address.  
I next looked at ReAssures view of the delays it caused
ReAssures view of the delays it caused
While ReAssure disagrees with the date our investigator recommended for the backdating of 
the encashment, it told this service that it felt a reasonable time frame for a loss assessment 
would be 10 days after Ms M chased it on 24 May 2022. ReAssure acknowledged that it 
hadnt responded to this. And that this had caused multiple chasers. 
Ms M told this service that ReAssure made it really difficult to withdraw her pension, which 
was very unfair. 
I can see that this has been a difficult time for Ms M. And I understand why she feels that 
ReAssure has made it difficult for her to withdraw her pension. However, as Ive noted 
above, I consider that a lot of the delay wasnt caused by ReAssure. 
From everything Ive seen, I consider that ReAssures offer to backdate the encashment to 
10 days after 24 May 2022 is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.I say this because I agree with ReAssure that it did cause delays from this point. But, when I 
consider the requirement for Ms M to provide her NI number, and the need for ReAssure to 
have a confirmed address before it could take further action, Im not persuaded that 
ReAssure was solely responsible for the delays before then. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ms M has had to chase ReAssure on a number of occasions since May 2022 to progress her 
claim. ReAssure has acknowledged that these chasers were caused by its failure to respond 
to Ms M. Therefore I can see that ReAssure has caused Ms M some distress and 
inconvenience. 
Based on what Ive seen, I intend to ask ReAssure to pay Ms M £200 compensation in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
Response to my provisional decision
ReAssure said it was willing to accept my provisional decision. And that it would look to 
proceed once it had received all completed requirements.
Ms M said she was tired of all the correspondence and had no more points to make. She 
said she had mailed the risk questionnaire ReAssure had asked for to it. And hoped it had 
no further requirements before it could send her the funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require ReAssure Limited to:
- Calculate what Ms Ms withdrawal benefits wouldve been in the currency of country I 
had the withdrawal completed 10 working days after 24 May 2022. This is 8 June 2022.
- Add simple interest at 8%* each year from 8 June 2022 to the date of my final decision. 
- Pay Ms M the total of the withdrawal benefits and the interest as soon as it has received 
the outstanding completed risk questionnaire from Ms M, as long as ReAssure receives 
this within its usual time limits. If it is not received within those time limits, I understand 
that it may be necessary for Ms M to provide additional paperwork to ReAssure under its 
usual terms and regulatory requirements.
- Pay Ms M £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience the delay ReAssure 
caused has caused her. 
*If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman