DRN-4061585
The complaint
Mr N complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decisions to decline a claim for a stolen 
mobile phone.
What happened
At the relevant times, Mr N had gadget insurance underwritten by Great Lakes, which 
covered his mobile phone. 
He bought the policy a few days before embarking on a trip overseas. He also bought a new 
SIM  not from his original network provider  which was significantly cheaper to use abroad.
Around two weeks later, Mr N made a claim. He said his phone had been stolen whilst he 
was overseas.
Mr N provided Great Lakes agents with proof of purchase of the phone, a police report of 
the theft, evidence that hed been using the SIM providers network and proof the phone had 
been blacklisted and blocked.
Great Lakes agents asked Mr N to provide proof of usage of the actual mobile device itself 
(rather than the SIM). Mr N asked the SIM provider, but they said they arent able to provide 
records of use of the device. 
On that basis, Great Lakes declined the claim. And when Mr N complained to them, they 
quoted the policy terms. The terms say that when making a claim, the policyholder must 
provide proof of usage of the gadget or device from the point the policy was purchased and 
up to the events leading to the claim.
Mr N wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought Great Lakes had acted unfairly in declining the claim and should 
now settle it.
Great Lakes disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the policy are clear about what a policyholder needs to provide when making a 
claim for loss or theft of a gadget.
In the section about claims procedures, the policy document says that when making such a 
claim, the policyholder must: report the loss to their network provider (so they can blacklist 
the gadget, where applicable); report it to the Police; provide proof of purchase; and provide 
proof of usage between policy inception and the date of loss.
Theres also a general exclusion set out in the policy which says that claims will not be paid 
where proof of usage isnt provided or evidenced.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr N has provided everything the terms say Great Lakes 
will need from the policyholder to substantiate a claim except proof of usage (at the relevant 
times).
That being the case, the terms  strictly applied  would allow Great Lakes to decline the 
claim, because Mr N hasnt been able to provide evidence he was using the phone after he 
bought the policy. 
So, the question for me in making this decision is whether applying the terms in that way and 
declining the claim is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I dont think there would be much debate about Great Lakes decision to decline the claim if 
Mr N had known in advance that replacing the SIM in his phone would mean that there 
would be no way to show whether or not hed been using the phone after the inception of the 
policy. 
If that were the case, I think there would be reasonable room for suspicion that Mr N might 
have lost the phone before he took out the policy. Its this kind of scenario that the relevant 
terms in the policy are primarily there to guard against.
However, I dont think that is the case here. I say that for a number of reasons, which Ill 
explain in more detail below.
First, the network provider from whom Mr N bought the replacement SIM  unsurprisingly 
perhaps  doesnt make it clear up front that they wont be able to provide data about the 
usage (or otherwise) of a particular mobile phone. 
Mr N found out that was the position only after he asked them for proof of usage data after 
he was asked for it by Great Lakes.
Many network providers  whether or not they were also the provider of the device or the 
original network provider - are able to provide device usage data. So, it wouldnt have been 
entirely unreasonable for Mr N to assume his provider might be able to do the same.
This (incorrect, as it happened) assumption might even have been encouraged by the way 
the terms of Mr Ns policy are set out by Great Lakes. 
In the policy booklet, they give a definition of proof of usage which says  without any 
caveat or contradiction - that proof of usage:
evidence can be obtained from your network provider.
Its worth noting that it doesnt say some network providers can provide proof of usage data. 
And it doesnt, for example, warn the customer that some network providers might not be 
able to provide proof of usage data.
Theres nothing in the way Mr N presented his claim, or in his on-going communication with 
Great Lakes agents, or in his communication with us, that suggests hes anything other than 
an honest individual whos very unfortunately been the victim of a crime.
His version of events is entirely credible. It makes sense that he bought the policy before 
going abroad. He might reasonably have concluded that there was more risk of losing the 
device  or having it stolen - whilst he was travelling. It also makes perfect sense that he switched network providers before travelling, because 
the cost of making calls and/or using data was considerably cheaper.
Mr N has also provided Great Lakes agents will all the evidence they required  to show he 
owned the phone, that he reported its theft, that he reported it to his network provider and 
had the phone blacklisted, that he was making calls and using data whilst abroad  except 
for the proof of usage data.
When he went to obtain that data, he found out his network provider cant provide it. Mr N 
has provided copies of the communications between him and the network provider and 
theres no doubt at all that theyre saying they cant provide proof of usage of the device 
itself. So, theres nothing else Mr N could then do to validate the claim in the way Great 
Lakes insisted.
I can understand why Great Lakes would wish to apply the terms of the policy very literally 
and strictly. And I can certainly understand the need for some provision in such policies to 
preclude the possibility that individuals might buy policies only after already having suffered 
a loss.
However, taking all of the evidence in this case into account, Im satisfied its unfair and 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline Mr Ns claim simply because his network provider is 
unable to provide proof of usage data. 
Mr N took the very understandable and quite normal decision to change his network and SIM 
provider so as to get a cheaper deal whilst travelling abroad.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think its very unlikely Mr N knew or suspected  or 
indeed might have reasonably been expected to know  at that point, that he'd be unable to 
get sufficient evidence to satisfy Great Lakes claim requirements.
I note, in this context, that Mr Ns policy is sold on the basis that cover is worldwide - as long 
as trips dont exceed a certain length of time. Some mainstream network providers are 
relatively expensive when travelling outside the UK, so its hardly surprising that 
policyholders might wish to use other (and less established) network providers in those 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Great Lakes agents have told Mr N  and us  that they declined Mr Ns claim for the sole 
reason that he couldnt provide evidence of proof of usage.
Since Ive concluded that its unfair for them to decline the claim on that basis, it follows that 
they should settle the claim in full at the earliest opportunity.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must settle Mr Ns claim in full as soon as is practically possible 
after Mr N accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 Neil Marshall
Ombudsman