DRN-3658134
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund her in full for the 
money she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mrs W was looking to make an investment and found an advertisement online 
offering an investment in cryptocurrency (Bitcoin). The business offering the investment was 
Ripple Market (RM). The investment appeared to be endorsed by a well-known celebrity 
which gave Mrs W confidence that it was a legitimate opportunity.
RM asked Mrs W to download a screen sharing application, which she did, and it helped her 
to set up legitimate accounts with several cryptocurrency exchanges. Money was then sent 
from Mrs Ws account with HSBC to these legitimate platforms before being sent on to RM to 
invest.
Mrs W sent two payments via the method of faster payment and the rest of the payments 
she made were via her Visa debit card.
It turned out Mrs W had fallen victim to a scam and after investing with RM it stopped 
communicating with her, and she was unable to recover any of her funds.
Mrs W complained to HSBC. She said HSBC should have stepped in to do more to protect 
her money and prevent the scam from taking place. 
HSBC agreed to refund Mrs W 50% of the money she had lost because of the faster 
payments she had made. But said it would not refund any of the payments Mrs W had made 
on her debit card.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint but thought the outcome offered by HSBC 
was fair, so didnt ask HSBC to do anything more to resolve her complaint. Mrs W disagreed, 
so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs W and HSBC sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should 
refund all the money Mrs W has lost because of this scam.
Mrs W made payments in relation to her investment with RM via two methods. The first 
method was faster payment to the cryptocurrency exchange (Binance). An account in Mrs 
Ws name. this type of payment is not covered by the CRM code.
Mrs W sent two payments via this method on 23 December 2020. The first payment was for 
£400 and the second £2,100. 
Mrs W also made several more payments to RM via other cryptocurrency exchanges (Luno 
Money and Paybis Limited) using her Visa debit card. Between February and March 2021.
HSBC was unable to request a chargeback of the debit card payments Mrs W made as part 
of the scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs W was dealing with RM which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mrs W 
didnt make the debit card payments to this business, she paid separate cryptocurrency 
exchanges (Binance, Luno Money and Paybis Limited). This is important because HSBC 
would only have been able to process chargeback claims against the merchants she paid 
(Binance, Luno Money and Paybis Limited), not another party (such as RM).
The services provided by Binance, Luno Money and Paybis Limited would have been to 
convert or facilitate conversion of Mrs Ws payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, 
Binance, Luno Money and Paybis Limited provided the services that were requested; that 
being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammers  
doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mrs W paid. So, I think 
HSBCs decision not to attempt a chargeback of the funds Mrs W paid on her debit card was 
fair.
It appears Mr W was aware of the investment she was attempting to make and authorised 
the payments that were made. So, the starting point here is that Mrs W is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
Mrs W had not held her account with HSBC for very long so there wasnt much history for 
HSBC to compare Mrs Ws spending habits with. In any event the two payments Mrs W 
made by faster payment to Binance were of a relatively low amount so even though Mrs W 
had not previously made payments to this business before 23 December 2020 I dont think it 
was unreasonable that HSBCs fraud prevention systems were not triggered. So, I would not 
expect HSBC to be able to step in and prevent these payments being made, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to ask it to refund any more than the 50% it has offered.
Looking at the payments Mrs W made on her debit card. These payments were for a 
relatively low value and the small amount of history available on her account shows she was 
starting to make relatively regular payments to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. So 
again, I wouldnt have expected HSBCs fraud prevention systems to have been triggered resulting in HSBC stopping any of the payments. Afterall its not unusual for people to make 
payments to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges, and it would not be reasonable for me to 
suggest HSBC should prevent all payments its customers make to these types of 
businesses.
Overall, I dont think HSBC is responsible for the money Mrs W has lost because of this 
scam so it doesnt need to refund any of the payments Mrs W made via her debit card or 
increase the amount it has agreed to refund in relation to the faster payments.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman