DRN-3535191
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has 
declined his claim for the cost of veterinary treatment for his pet dog.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr Ts young dog, who Ill refer to as T, required veterinary treatment 
for a condition called Cherry Eye in his right eye. When Mr T claimed for the cost of this 
under his pet insurance policy with C&G it declined the claim on the ground that Ts clinical 
history confirmed that there had been signs and symptoms of Cherry Eye in Ts left eye in 
June 2021. Mr Ts took out his policy on 2 July 2021. C&G says that the condition was 
therefore a pre-existing and bilateral one and as such was excluded from cover.
Mr T has said that in June 2021, shortly after hed purchased T, he noticed that Ts left eyelid 
was inflamed. As Ts breeder had told him this might be Cherry Eye or hay fever from pollen, 
Mr T mentioned the possibility of Cherry Eye to Ts vet on 18 June 2021 when he took T to 
be seen for a tummy upset. He says that he asked the vet to check Ts eyes for Cherry Eye 
and was told that the symptoms in his left eye were possibly due to hay fever and his eyes 
were fine. 
In its final response letter to Mr T, C&G says that Ts vet had confirmed that in June 2021 T 
suffered with Cherry Eye in his left eye. When taking out his policy, Mr T had been asked to 
confirm the correctness of a number of assumptions, one of which was Are you looking for 
insurance cover for a pre-existing condition? Mr T didnt disclose any pre-existing condition 
of Cherry Eye. Had he done so, C&G wouldve applied an endorsement to his policy 
excluding cover on all claims with respect to Ts eyes and sight with effect from 2 July 2021.
Mr T was unhappy that C&G had rejected his claim and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that there was insufficient evidence to show that the issue with 
Ts left eye in June 2021 was likely to be an associated condition or symptom of the Cherry 
Eye later diagnosed in September 2021. Her view was that it wasnt fair for C&G to rely on 
the pre-existing condition exclusion to deny Mr Ts claim. She also didnt consider that Mr T 
had made a misrepresentation when taking out his policy. Her recommendation was that 
C&G review Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining conditions of the policy and that it remove 
the eye and sight exclusion it had added to the policy.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and maintains its position that T had been 
noted to suffer from an eye condition prior to the policy's inception, and it was satisfied
that the endorsement for eyes and sight was correctly applied to Mr T's policy.
Mr Ts complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
I have to consider whether C&G has acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ts claim. That involves firstly 
considering whether C&G has acted fairly in its assessment of whether the condition for 
which T was treated in September 2021, namely Cherry Eye, was a pre-exiting one, defined 
in the policy as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
.
Mr T has explained that hed been told by Ts breeder in June 2021 that what hed noted 
about Ts left eye might be Cherry Eye, but it couldve been caused by a number of other 
things such as hay fever or pollen. There was no veterinary diagnosis of Cherry Eye in June 
2021. Contrary to what C&G has said in its final response letter to Mr T, Ts vet did not 
confirm that T had Cherry Eye in June 2021. Nor has there been any subsequent diagnosis 
of Cherry Eye in Ts left eye. The possibility of Cherry Eye in Ts left eye was raised by Mr T 
with the vet on 18 June 2021 when he was taken for treatment for a tummy upset, who 
discounted it and said his eyes were fine. 
Ts vet subsequently confirmed as follows:
The owner informed me they thought [T] might have had what the owner suspected to 
be the same in the left eye approximately 3 months prior to my examination on 
10/09/2021, however this had quickly gone away without need for medical intervention. 
As a practice we have never diagnosed [T] with any eye related disorders prior to 
10/09/2021. On examination for an unrelated tummy upset on 18/06/21 it was noted by 
a colleague that the eyes were fine at this time.
I dont consider that the vet wouldve said that Ts eyes were fine in June 2021 had there 
been any clinical signs or symptoms of any disorder in Ts eyes.
C&G hasnt provided any veterinary evidence of its own to support any connection between 
the Cherry Eye in Ts right eye in September 2021 and the inflamation that was noticed in 
Ts left eye in June 2021 which the breeder told Mr T could be Cherry Eye amongst other 
things, but which the vet saw no signs of. 
So Im therefore satisfied that the Cherry Eye diagnosed in Ts right eye in September 2021 
was not connected to any pre-existing condition.
I also think its reasonable for Mr T to have stated when taking out his policy that he wasnt 
looking to cover any pre-existing conditions. Hed been told by the vet before he applied for 
the policy that Ts eyes were fine. There was therefore no condition nor any signs or 
symptoms of one that shouldve been disclosed. In my view there was therefore no 
misrepresentation, and no endorsement to the policy shouldve been made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) to settle Mr Ts claim subject to 
the other terms and conditions of his policy.If Mr Ts claim is successful, I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd to pay Mr T interest on any sum he has already paid to Ts vet at the simple rate of 8% 
from the date he paid Ts vet to the date that payment is made to him. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if Mr T asks for one so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Unless the policy has been cancelled, I require Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd to remove the eye and sight exclusion from Mr Ts policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman