DRN-1730596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA PPP) unfairly declined Mr Bs 
claim for private medical treatment. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP in November 2017. 
The policy had a two year moratorium. This meant for the first two years, they wouldnt be 
covered for any claims relating to pre-existing conditions theyd had during the three years 
prior to taking the policy. 
After the two year moratorium period had ended, the policy would provide cover for pre-
existing conditions from which theyd been trouble free for the two year period. 
The  policy gives the following definitions: 
Pre-existing condition - any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years before the start of 
your cover.
Trouble free - when you:
have not had any medical opinion from a medical practitioner including 
GPs or specialists; or
have not taken any medication (including over the counter drugs) or 
followed a special diet; or
have not had any medical treatment; or
have not visited a practitioner, physiotherapist, therapist, homeopath, 
acupuncturist, optician or dentist; 
for the medical condition
Mr B experienced chest pains while on holiday abroad, and was admitted to hospital. When 
he returned home, he visited his GP and was referred to a cardiologist  Dr C. 
Mr B made a claim for his treatment in May 2019. AXA PPP said it would need to review 
Mr Bs medical records to determine whether the claim was linked to a pre-existing condition. 
Mr Bs medical records showed he saw his GP in November 2018 due to chest pains and 
was recommended to undergo tests. The next GP note was in May 2019, when Mr B 
reported chest pains whilst on holiday, and had been admitted to hospital abroad. Following 
this the GP referred him to a specialist. 
The records from Mr Bs hospital admission abroad referenced Mr B having experienced 
chest pains. And showed hed undergone tests including an echocardiogram (ECG) which 
showed a dilated left ventricle. No formal diagnosis was given and Mr B was discharged 
from the hospital and advised to visit his GP when he returned home.
In September 2019 Mr B contacted AXA PPP to find out why it hadnt settled invoices in 
relation to his claim. AXA PPP told Mr B itd turned down his claim as itd not seen sufficient 
evidence that it was unrelated to his pre-existing ischaemic heart disease. Mr B provided 
AXA PPP with letters from his treating consultant, Dr C and asked it to review these as he 
believed his recent condition was unrelated.
Dr Cs letter in June 2019 confirmed Mr B had a history of ischaemic heart disease and atrial 
fibrillation. And said Mr B had a stent fitted to the left side of his heart in 2007. He said Mr B 
had been admitted to hospital abroad while on holiday due to chest pains, and that it was 
thought he might be suffering with acute coronary syndrome, but this wasnt confirmed. He 
said hed undergone tests which showed a dilated left ventricle, but was discharged with his 
normal medication. 
A further report from Dr C in July 2019 said he had reviewed Mr B and he was free of 
significant cardiac symptoms. He said the tests conducted demonstrated a normal sized left 
ventricle. And said Mr B was making good progress and there were no plans for further 
cardiac intervention. 
There was a delay in AXA PPP reviewing the reports from Dr C. Mr B said he first sent these 
to AXA PPP in October, and after AXA PPP said theyd not been received, he sent them 
again in November. 
After reviewing the reports from Dr C, AXA PPP maintained its decision that the treatment 
Mr B was claiming for was for symptoms related to his previous diagnosis of ischaemic heart 
disease, which he had been taking medication for since 2007. 
Mr B complained to AXA PPP about the claim decision. 
AXA PPP said the medical evidence itd been provided didnt demonstrate Mr Bs claim was 
unrelated to his existing condition, so it said it was correct to turn down the claim. However it 
said it would review any further evidence Mr B wanted to provide. It said itd caused a delay 
in responding to Mr Bs claim. And itd paid his first consultants invoice in error. And 
because of this it said it would honour that payment, and offered Mr B £50 in compensation.
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with private treatment if AXA PPP hadnt paid his initial 
consultation invoice. And he said he thought the symptoms he experienced when on holiday 
may have been due to food poisoning. 
An investigator here looked into the complaint and said she didnt think AXA PPP had 
declined the claim unfairly. She said she thought the medical evidence supported AXA 
PPPs findings that the claim was linked to a pre-existing condition. And she said although 
AXA PPP had paid the first invoice in error, it hadnt told Mr B his claim would be paid and 
had said it needed to review the medical evidence. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. He provided two further letters from Dr C. The first letter dated 6 April 2020 confirmed Mr B had been fitted with a stent in 2007. And 
said: 
Since then he had remained well, but in May 2019 when he was admitted to hospital 
[abroad] with some chest discomfort. There was initially some concern regarding an 
acute coronary syndrome but this was not confirmed. An exercise test was negative 
but an [ECG] apparently demonstrated a dilated left ventricle.
I saw him following his return to the UK and arranged his reassessment in view of 
this new episode of chest discomfort. Fortunately the [ECG] demonstrated a normal 
sized left ventricle with maintained systolic function the stents were patent and 
there was no evidence of disease elsewhere so that no further intervention was 
required. 
these investigations were carried out as a result of the new episode in May and 
was not part of routine screening..
And the second letter dated two days later said:
Further to my earlier letter I can confirm that the results of your investigations 
suggested that the episode that resulted to your admission to hospital [abroad] last 
year was not an acute coronary syndrome and therefore not related to your previous 
coronary artery disease and intervention..
The investigator sent a copy of Dr Cs letter to AXA PPP. 
AXA PPP said the letter was written a year after the events, and specifically for the purpose 
of the claim. It said the contents didnt tally with the medical history and although Dr C had 
stated Mr B experienced a new episode of chest discomfort, it thought this meant he had 
previously experienced the same symptoms. And is said it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. 
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. And so the case has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA PPP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think AXA PPP 
has rejected Mr Bs claim unfairly or unreasonably in this case. And Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy has a two year moratorium, so between November 2017 and November 2019, 
he isnt covered for claims relating to pre-existing conditions he had during the three years 
before he took out his policy. And Mr Bs medical records show he has a long history of 
ischaemic heart disease. Hed been fitted with a stent in 2007 and had been taking regular 
medication for the condition since then. Because of this, Im satisfied that in line with the 
terms of his policy, Mr B doesnt have any cover for claims relating to this condition during 
the first two years.  
When Mr B made a claim for treatment relating to chest pains in May 2019, for this to 
succeed, he needed to evidence to AXA PPP that this was unrelated to his existing condition 
of ischaemic heart disease. However, AXA PPP turned down Mr Bs claim as it said it wasnt persuaded the symptoms which caused Mr Bs claim, were unrelated. I dont think that this 
decision was unfair. And I say this for the following reasons. 
Mr Bs medical records showed evidence of chest pains Mr B reported to his GP in 
November 2018 and May 2019. And the report from the hospital abroad showed hed 
been admitted due to chest pains, and had undergone tests which found a dilated left 
ventricle. Based on this evidence, and considering Mr B had previously had a stent 
fitted on the left side of his heart, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA PPP to 
conclude that Mr Bs referral to a cardiologist was related to his pre-existing 
ischaemic heart disease.
Mr B has said the cause of his chest pain while abroad was undiagnosed. And has 
said the pain may have been due to food poisoning. Whilst a diagnosis wasnt given, 
the reports from the hospital show Mr B underwent an ECG which showed a dilated 
left ventricle. And theres no mention of food poisoning as a possible cause. So Im 
not persuaded this evidence shows the admission was not related to Mr Bs pre-
existing heart condition. 
Mr B provided AXA PPP with reports from his consultant, Dr C in 2019. These said 
Mr B continued to experience chest discomfort after returning from his holiday. And 
said the results of further scans had shown a normal sized left ventricle, and that 
Mr B was free of any significant cardiac symptoms. Mr B has suggested the results of 
the tests carried out aboard were incorrect, as they differ from those carried out by 
Dr C. However Im not persuaded the reports from Mr Bs hospital admission abroad 
are incorrect purely because the results are different. There was a gap of several 
weeks between the tests, and I think it most likely that this was the reason for the 
differing results. 
Mr B also provided two letters written by his consultant in April 2020. The first letter 
suggests that prior to May 2019, Mr B had been well since his stent was fitted. 
However this doesnt reconcile with the medical records which show Mr B visited his 
GP due to chest pain in November 2018. Dr C also refers to a new episode but not 
to a new or different condition. 
Dr Cs second letter written in April 2020 specifically stated he didnt think Mr Bs 
symptoms in May 2019 were related to his history of heart disease. Ive carefully 
considered what Dr C has said in this letter. But Ive also considered that this letter 
was written a significant amount of time after Mr Bs consultations with Dr C, and 
shortly after Mr B had received our investigators opinion on his complaint. And 
having done so, I dont think it unreasonable that AXA PPP placed less reliance on 
the contents of this letter, than the previous evidence provided by Dr C at the time of 
the consultations, and Mr Bs wider medical records. 
Mr B also complained about the delays in handling his claim, and AXA PPPs error in paying 
the invoice for his first consultation with Dr C. He said he wouldnt have continued with his 
private treatment if AXA PPP hadnt paid the initial invoice. 
Mr Bs first consultation with Dr C was on 3 June 2019, and his tests and scans took place 
on 18 and 24 June 2019. I asked AXA PPP to confirm when it paid the invoice for Mr Bs first consultation. It said this was on 25 June 2019, and provided a copy of the benefit statement 
it sent to Mr B on the same date. 
Although AXA PPP has said it paid the first invoice in error, I dont think this had an impact 
on Mr Bs decision to continue with private treatment. This is because the invoice was paid 
after Mr Bs appointments for his scans had taken place, and Ive seen no evidence that 
Mr B was informed by AXA PPP prior to 25 June 2019, that the first invoice would be paid.
AXA PPP has apologised for the delay in telling Mr B its decision on his claim and its offered 
him £50 in compensation. And it said it wouldnt ask Mr B to pay back the money for the 
invoice it paid in error. So in the circumstances, I think AXA PPP has done enough to put 
things right.
 
My final decision
Im aware AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs B £50. I 
conclude that this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B £50, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman