DRN-2828336
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Zenith Insurance plcs decision to settle a third party claim
under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer Zenith includes its agents.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M was involved in a collision with a car. Mr M said he was driving around a
left hand bend when the other driver approached on his side of the road.
Mr M made a claim to his insurer, Zenith and it set out the allegations to the other drivers
insurer. Mr M provided a photo hed taken of where the vehicles were immediately after the
incident, which Zenith submitted to the other drivers insurer to support their allegations.
The other drivers insurer said the photo didnt prove that their driver was negligent. They
offered to settle the claim on a shared liability basis, so 50%50%.
Zenith decided to accept the offer. Mr M was very unhappy with Zeniths decision as he
didnt believe he was at fault at all for the incident. So he raised a complaint.
Zenith said it did defend Mr M and looked to settle the claim as a non-fault claim. However,
due to the lack of evidence to support their case, it settled the claim on the best terms
possible as it was entitled to do under the policy. So Zenith said its decision was correct. It
said it settled the claim on a without prejudice basis.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said he was out of pocket
by thousands due to having to hire a replacement vehicle and the excess under the policy.
Our investigator thought Zenith had shown it had properly investigated the claim and
reached its decision in line with the policy terms.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he says the photo shows the direction of the other drivers
wheels which supports his account of what happened.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2021. I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint, 
but I addressed a complaint hed raised with Zenith at the time of his complaint about vehicle 
hire costs. Mr M believed Zenith is responsible for vehicle hire costs he incurred. I gave Mr 
M the opportunity to comment on my provisional findings. I found that Zenith had offered to 
arrange for a courtesy car, but Mr M had declined. 
Mr M didnt agree. Ive addressed his comments in my findings. 
Zenith didnt reply to my provisional decision. As Mr M didnt agree, the case has been 
passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as that is the role of the courts. We can look at whether an insurer
reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy.
Mr Ms policy with Zenith has a very common term Ive seen in most  if not all motor
insurance policies. This term says Zenith can take over the defence and settlement of a
claim in Mr Ms name. This means Zenith might make a decision Mr M doesnt agree with,
but the policy allows Zenith to do so.
We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer can show it treated its
customer fairly when applying it.
Zenith initially set out the allegations and sent the photo Mr M provided to the other drivers
insurer. So I think it acted fairly here. However, the other drivers insurer didnt accept
liability. So its reasonable at this stage for the insurer to consider the evidence available,
how strong that is and whether to pursue the matter. Pursuing the matter to potentially court
action carries a risk of significant costs  and so its reasonable for an insurer to weigh up
whether this is appropriate action. And this largely depends on the strength of the evidence
to be able to show that the other driver was at fault.
I understand how strongly Mr M feels about his evidence. But having looked at the photo, it
doesnt prove the other driver caused the collision. It shows both vehicles parked in their
positions after the collision took place. The other drivers car isnt on the wrong side of the
road in the photo  and Mr Ms van is parked up on the pavement.
It isnt that Zenith  or I disbelieve Mr M. But there was no CCTV or independent witnesses
or dash cam footage. And so it was one drivers word against the other.
Zenith is entitled to make a decision to settle the claim on the best terms possible after
considering all of the information available to it. I think Zenith properly considered the claim
and while I understand Mr M will be very disappointed, I think it reached its decision to settle
the claim on a shared liability basis in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. And this
means that Mr M is responsible for 50% of the excess payment.
Mr M says he is out of pocket by thousands as a result of the claim, including replacement
hire vehicle costs, VAT on the repairs and the excess he paid. I can see that Mr M raised
these issues with Zenith when he complained.
Zenith has confirmed to us that it didnt address this complaint. It told us that Mr M was
offered a courtesy vehicle, but he rejected it.
Ive found in Zeniths notes that on 18 September 2019 Mr M called as he had concerns over
parts being ordered by the approved repairer (AR). Zeniths notes read:
ph (policyholder Mr M) mentioned he was paying for hire  advised I can call (name
of AR) to see if the garage have anything  ph refused this and advised he will
charge TP for the bill
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Zenith is responsible for replacement hire vehicle
costs as Zenith offered to check for a courtesy vehicle but Mr M refused. 
Mr M said as he had fully comprehensive insurance, he believed Zenith should reimburse 
him for vehicle hire costs. He said he hired a replacement vehicle due to Zeniths incompetence in arranging for his car to be repaired. In response to Mr Ms comments, I 
advised him of the following on 17 May 2021:
"Mr Ms policy with Zenith is fully comprehensive but that doesnt mean replacement 
hire vehicle costs are covered. Customers choose the levels of cover they want when 
they buy their policy and can add benefits such as a replacement like for like vehicle 
while being repaired. Under Mr Ms policy, I cant see that he had any replacement 
vehicle benefit. But I will consider any new information Mr M has before I issue my 
final decision.
From the information we have, Zenith offered to arrange for a courtesy vehicle, but 
Mr M declined. So I cant say it acted unreasonably."
As I havent received any new information to change my provisional decision, my final 
decision is on the same lines. I understand Mr M will be very disappointed. But this means 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman