DRN-3771947
The complaint
Ms C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt complete the 
repairs correctly on her car, and the car subsequently failed its MOT because the repairers 
had let the fuel run down so far it damaged the fuel pump. 
What happened
Ms Cs daughter had an accident in her car in November 2021. 
LV arranged for the car to be repaired by one of their approved repairers. The car went back 
and forth to the repairers as there were issues with the repairs. During that time the MOT 
lapsed and when the MOT was done by the repairers in March, it failed. 
Ms C says that the car failed its MOT because of an emissions issue, which has been 
caused by the repair company as they ran the fuel down to zero on the car, damaging the 
engine. The repair to the fuel pump cost £250. 
LV said that they are confident that all the rectification work required has been completed 
and that the issues with the fuel pump are not their responsibility. 
Ms C  was unhappy with LVs response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Ms Cs complaint but didnt recommend that LV 
needed to do anything further.  
Ms C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether LV have fairly and reasonably in refusing to pay for the 
mechanical repairs to Ms Cs car. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Ms C the information provided by LV, 
and the information provided by Ms Cs garage. However, Im not upholding this complaint 
and I will explain why. 
The repairs were initially done, and the car returned to Ms C on 8 December 2021. Ms C 
says that the car was returned to her with half her fuel used, and so LV paid her £40 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the fuel.  
Shortly after that Ms C noticed a knocking noise and reported it on 16 December 2021. On 
31 December 2021 the repairers had the car back and took it to the main dealer for 
diagnostics. The diagnostics showed that there was an issue with the timing belt which was 
unrelated to the accident. They also identified an issue with the steering gaiter which they 
repaired as they couldnt be sure it wasnt related to the accident. They then delivered the 
car to Mrs Cs garage for the timing belt repair. 
Ms Cs garage completed this and she collected the car on 3 February 2022. 
Again, Ms C was unhappy with the car, saying that there was still a knocking noise, and that 
her mileage had gone up while the car was with the repairer.  
LV arranged a further inspection for 16 February 2022 and on 22 February the car was 
returned to the repairer who replaced a spring in the suspension. There was no fuel issue 
identified at that point.  
As Ms Cs MOT had expired whilst it was in the care of the repairer, they completed an MOT 
for her as a gesture of goodwill. However, the car failed the MOT test because of emissions, 
which were related to a faulty fuel pump. Ms C says that the fuel pump is faulty because the 
repairer drove her car and ran the fuel down whilst it was in their care. 
Ms Cs mechanic has confirmed that a fuel pump can be damaged by running the fuel down 
too low, and I dont have any reason to disagree with this. However, I havent seen any 
independent evidence that there was excessive use of the car whilst it was with the repairer, 
or that they were responsible for running the fuel low. 
I accept Ms Cs garages statement that it came to them with very little fuel in it, and that 
running down fuel can lead to engine issues. However, as I havent seen any evidence of 
how much fuel was in the car when it was sent to the repairer, or of what the mileage 
showed at the start and end of each period with the repairer, I cant fairly say that they have 
run the fuel down, or that they are responsible for the failure of the fuel pump. As such I cant 
hold LV responsible for paying for the further repairs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman