DRN-4095942
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she has paid for insurance policies underwritten by Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc which were of no benefit to her.
What happened
Mrs G has been a customer of Sky for broadband and TV services for more than 20 years. 
She says that during that time, shes had insurance cover provided by D&G for her Sky 
equipment.
Mrs G switched her Sky product in around 2012. She says that since that time, the 
equipment provided by Sky was in fact loaned from them rather than owned by her. And she 
says Sky therefore undertook to service or replace the equipment if there were any issues.
Its Mrs Gs view that this rendered her insurance policy entirely redundant. She says D&G 
should have told her this. And she wants them to refund the premiums shes paid over that 
period of time.
When Mrs G complained to D&G about this, they told her the cover had in fact had potential 
benefits for her and they said they wouldnt be returning her premiums.
Mrs G wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think D&G had done anything wrong. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to D&G, Mrs G had a policy with them between 2004 and 2012. And then again 
from August 2017 to May 2022, when she cancelled it. 
Theyve told us Mrs G had several repairs carried out by them in that earlier period (2004-
2012). Thats largely irrelevant because thats when Mrs G had her previous Sky deal, which 
appears to have had her as the owner of the equipment involved.
I realise Mrs G has said she wants premiums refunded back to around 2012 when she 
switched Sky services. But in fact, the operative period appears to be from August 2017, 
when she first took out her most recent policy with D&G, to May 2022, when she cancelled 
the cover.
The key question for me in making this decision is whether Mrs G derived any benefit from 
having the policy. 
If she didnt, Id then have to ask myself whether D&G ought to have known that she was 
deriving no benefit. In which case, its arguable they should have told her that and given her 
the option of cancelling it. 
Alternatively, if its not the case that D&G were or should have been aware the policy wasnt 
suitable for Mrs G, Id have to ask whether the information they provided to her was 
sufficiently detailed to allow Mrs G to make her own informed choice about whether to take 
the cover. 
I know this will disappoint Mrs G, but Im satisfied on balance that she did in fact derive some 
benefit from the policy. Im not suggesting she made successful claims on it (after 2017)  it 
appears she didnt. 
But that doesnt mean the policy was of no value to her at the point she took it out and/or 
renewed it. Its in the nature of insurance that you will sometimes pay premiums but make no 
claims within a given period.
The documentation Mrs G has provided from Sky says that they will loan certain equipment 
to Mrs G - and, importantly, they will service or replace it if there are technical issues with 
it.
The D&G policy covers not only technical issues but accidental damage to the equipment  
which it appears Sky will not cover. 
It also covers some equipment which is not loaned to Mrs G by Sky. For example, the dish, 
cabling, remote controls, the router, the link to the TV and/or wireless connectors.
And it covers Mrs Gs own TV, which has been added to the cover. And that wouldnt be 
serviced or replaced by Sky under any circumstances.
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to suggest that D&G ought to have known that the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mrs G and ought to have told her so. In fact, it did provide 
significant benefits for her.
Weve also seen copies of the renewal notices sent to Mrs G each year before the policy 
was due to renew. These were clear about the cover being provided. And an insurance 
product information document (IPID) and full policy terms and conditions were included.
The IPID and the terms are very clear. Any reader would realise that some of the benefits of 
the policy were redundant because Sky would repair or replace some equipment (the 
equipment they owned and loaned out to their customer) if there were technical issues with 
it.
But the reader would also know that there were very significant areas of cover  accidental 
damage to the Sky-owned equipment, cover for the non-Sky-owned equipment and cover for 
the TV  which would not be redundant and which would provide significant benefit to the 
policyholder.
So, in short, I dont think D&G could reasonably be accused of not putting Mrs G in a 
position to make her own informed choices about the cover and whether to renew it. At the 
outset and at each renewal, she should have been aware that there was some overlap with 
the service offered by Sky but that the policy provided other significant benefits.In summary, I cant reasonably conclude that D&G did anything wrong in providing the cover 
to Mrs G in 2017 and in renewing it each year thereafter until Mrs G cancelled it in May 
2022.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman