DRN-4213303
The complaint
Mr A and Miss G complained to us about Great Lakes Insurance SEs delay in dealing with 
their travel insurance claims. They later raised their disagreement to Great Lakes settlement 
of their claims and further service issues. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr A and Miss G had annual multi-trip travel insurance. The relevant sections of the policy 
are insured by Great Lakes.
While on holiday abroad Mr A and Miss G were involved in an accident resulting in a foot 
injury for Mr A and facial injury for Miss G. They claimed on the policy for medical/dental 
treatment they had abroad, Mr As damaged trousers that had to be cut for his treatment, 
medications and broken glasses for both of them. Mr A claimed for costs for private medical 
expenses when he returned to the UK.
Mr A and Miss G also claimed for their delayed flight which Great Lakes paid and theres no 
dispute about that claim.
In July 2022 Mr A and Miss G complained to us because they hadnt received a decision 
about their claims. They detailed the delay and poor service theyd received from several 
businesses they understood were dealing with their claims. They wanted their claims paid.
In October 2022, after Mr A and Miss G complained to us, Great Lakes accepted Mr As 
claim and paid some of the costs. It paid for his medical treatment abroad, medication, taxis, 
his new glasses and his trousers. It didnt pay the costs of his medical treatment in the UK or 
the cost to repair his old glasses.
Great Lakes deducted two £50 excesses from Mr As claim settlement, one for costs it paid 
under the emergency medical expenses section and one for costs it paid under the personal 
possessions section.
Great Lakes accepted there were unnecessary delays in handling the claim due to a change 
in the business handling the claim. It waived the £100 excesses as compensation for Mr A 
and Miss Gs distress and inconvenience.
In November 2022 Great Lakes accepted Miss Gs claim and paid some of the costs. It said 
it paid costs for some of her dental treatment abroad, medications and her new glasses. It 
initially said it didnt pay the costs of her denture adjustment or her dental implant which 
totalled about £600.
Great Lakes deducted two £50 excesses from Miss Gs claim settlement, one for costs it 
paid under the emergency medical expenses section and one for costs it paid under the 
personal possessions section.
Mr A and Miss G then raised their concerns with us about Great Lakes settlement and 
further service issues. They said:
Great Lakes unfairly deducted two excesses for Mr As claim. They think it was one 
claim relating to all Mr As losses due to the accident so Great Lakes should deduct 
one excess. 
The trousers and the glasses werent baggage. They wanted Great Lakes to pay for 
the temporary repair of Mr As glasses abroad which he needed until he returned 
home and bought new ones.
Great Lakes should pay Mr As costs for two x-rays and a private medical 
consultation in the UK. By the time Mr A returned home, went to A&E and his GP his 
fracture was no longer considered an emergency. Mr A was in pain and couldnt walk 
so to avoid waiting for a NHS hospital appointment he paid to see a consultant 
privately who advised him to have physiotherapy. Mr A chose to have physiotherapy 
through the NHS, which under the policy he could have had privately paid for by 
Great Lakes. So it was fair for Great Lakes to pay for the x-rays and consultation 
which related to the recommended physiotherapy.
The problems they had in getting assistance from Great Lakes when they were 
abroad and in the UK meant Mr As fracture had already started to heal incorrectly 
when he started treatment in the UK. He had to have his foot re-broken and pinned 
which meant another three months of physiotherapy which caused stress and 
inconvenience which Great Lakes should pay for.
Great Lakes unfairly deducted two excesses for Miss Gs claim. The glasses werent 
baggage.
Great Lakes only paid one set of Miss Gs medication fees. There were two lots of 
medication, for the same amount, and Great Lakes should pay both.
Great Lakes should pay for the further denture treatment Miss G required, and they 
detailed why they considered that would be fair.
They want Great Lakes to pay more compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its general poor service in particular to acknowledge Miss Gs 
time and expenses in chasing Great Lakes to process the claims.
Our investigator said Great Lakes fairly settled both claims. She recommended Great Lakes 
pay an additional £100 compensation, so £200 in total, for Mr A and Miss Gs distress and 
inconvenience due to its delays in claim handling.
Great Lakes accepted our investigators recommendation.
Mr A and Miss G disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In summary they added: 
The poilcy definition of insurance event meant as their claims arose from one 
insured event and they had a joint policy Great Lakes should only deduct one excess 
in total.
The policy cover for physiotherapy must have been written before Covid-19 as now 
one couldnt return home from abroad and have an immediate GP and hospital 
appointment. They asked how Mr A was supposed to get physiotherapy without 
having private x-rays and consultation when he just had a medical discharge letter 
not written in English and no x-ray.
We hadnt looked at what had taken place between 17 January 2022 , when they 
phoned Great Lakes about the accident and 6 June 2022, when Great Lakes asked 
for more information to assess the claim. If Great Lakes had contacted them it could 
have told Mr A how to get physiotherapy with the information he had from being 
treated abroad and not delayed his treatment.Miss Gs partial denture work was done at the same time as the tooth extraction and 
if there hadnt been a partial denture the cost for the root extraction would have cost 
more.
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes for its comments on:
1. Mr As points that around his return to the UK Great Lakes didnt respond to his 
request for information about what was covered with the physiotherapy and his 
suggestion that its delay caused him to have further treatment.
2. Mr A and Miss Gs suggestion that Great Lakes still owed one lot of Miss Gs 
medication costs.
3. Why it declined the remaining dental costs for Miss G.
Great Lakes responded that:
1. It couldnt respond on this point as it had a different claim handler when Mr A first 
logged his claim in January 2022.
2. It hadnt paid for Miss Gs medication from 17 January 2022 as it couldnt find a 
receipt to support the payment so Miss G will need to provide another copy of the 
receipt.
3. It had covered £35 for the tooth removal, £150 for the denture adjustment and £460 
for the dental implant. It hadnt paid for the crown implants as they werent required 
for immediate relief of pain, which is what the policy covers.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was partly upholding the complaint. I said:
Generally were not able to consider a complaint about a matter before a consumer has 
complained to the relevant business. That would mean Id only be able to make a decision 
about Mr A and Miss Gs original complaint about Great Lakes delay in dealing with their 
claims.
However, our investigator has given a recommendation on some of the issues Mr A and 
Miss G later raised with us. And given Great Lakes delay in dealing with the claims, which it 
acknowledged, I think its reasonable for me to try to resolve at least some of the later issues 
Mr A and Miss G raised. Thats why I asked Great Lakes for some more information before 
I made this provisional decision.
But given Great Lakes responses to my request for more information about Miss Gs claim 
and its comments around its service potentially impacting on Mr As treatments I dont think 
its right or fair for me to try to resolve those issues as part of this complaint. Mr A and 
Miss G need to first complain to Great Lakes about those two issues.
I say that because Great Lakes now says its paid most of the outstanding dental costs 
Miss G was seeking. If she hasnt received the costs the parties can resolve that issue 
directly. If she thinks Great Lakes should also pay for her crown implants, taking into account 
the policy wording, she can complain to it about that issue. Miss G can also provide the 
missing medication receipt to Great Lakes to assess. If the parties cant reach agreement 
then she can make a separate complaint to us on that matter.As for Mr As new point about compensation for his additional treatment, Ive no medical 
evidence from him that any unreasonable delay did result in him needing further treatment 
and Great Lakes response suggests it doesnt think its responsible for that alleged service 
issue. I think the best way forward on that matter is for Mr A to send any medical evidence 
he has in support of his concern with a complaint to Great Lakes for its response.
The policy says the administrator acts on behalf of Great Lakes for the relevant sections of 
the policy. So it seems to me that Great Lakes is responsible for service to Mr A and Miss G 
from 17 January 2022, even if the administrator changed the business it used for its claim 
handling. If Great Lakes still disagrees then it can explain why in detail to Mr A and Miss G 
so they can complain to the correct business. If agreement cant be reached then Mr A and 
Miss G can make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
This provisional decision is about Mr A and Miss Gs original complaint about Great Lakes 
delay around dealing with their claims and whether Great Lakes fairly settled Mr As claim 
and applied four excesses in total to Mr A and Miss Gs claims.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
On the matters which this decision considers Im partly upholding the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
A travel insurance policy doesnt cover every situation policyholders find themselves in. The 
risks and losses an insurer is prepared to cover are set out in the policy terms.
Great Lakes delay in assessing the claims
Its clear the claims werent processed as quickly as they should have been. I dont generally 
award compensation for individual elements of a policyholders time or cost in making a 
complaint. Instead I look at the overall distress and inconvenience caused by the insurers 
poor service.
Great Lakes doesnt dispute that Mr A and Miss G had to phone numerous times to try to 
find out what was happening with their claims, their claims couldnt be located and they had 
to send their claim evidence again to a different email address as the claim handling 
business had changed since they started the claims.
There was unnecessary and unreasonable delay in Great Lakes settling the claim, which 
caused Mr A and Miss G distress and inconvenience. I dont think Great Lakes original 
payment of £100 compensation was enough but its now agreed to pay an additional £100, 
so £200 compensation in total. I think thats a reasonable amount to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience Mr A and Miss G had as a result of its delays in handling the 
claims.Excesses deducted
Mr A and Miss G say that because of the policy definition of insurance event Great Lakes 
should only apply one excess as they only made one claim because all the losses where 
due to one insurance event. The policy defines insurance event as one occurrence, or all 
occurrences of a series, consequent on or attributable to one source or originating cause, 
giving rise to a claim.
But whether Great Lakes assessed Mr As claim and Miss Gs claim separately or as one 
overall claim it could still fairly deduct the four excesses. The policy says how it will apply the 
excess:
Excess:
The amount of money You will have to pay per person per claim per section towards 
the cost of a claim.
Great Lakes made claim payments under section 1 of the policy Emergency medical and 
repatriation expenses for Mr A and for Miss G. That section has an excess of £50 so a claim 
for two people under that section means a £100 excess is deductible.
Great Lakes also made claim payments under section 5 of the policy Personal possessions 
which the policy defines as:
baggage, clothing and personal effects.taken on an Insured Journey by You, 
and which are owned by You.
So Mr As trousers and glasses and Miss Gs glasses are within the definition of personal 
possessions. Although the trousers and glasses were damaged as a result of the accident 
the personal possessions section is the only section that would provide cover for those items 
in those circumstances. That section has an excess of £50 so a claim for two people under 
that section means a £100 excess is deductible.
Im satisfied that Great Lakes fairly deducted a total of £200 for the excesses.
Mr As glasses repair
Section 5 Personal possessions says under the heading What is covered: 
The cost of the replacement, reinstatement or (my emphasis) repair of Your 
Personal Possessions subject to wear and tear and depreciation.
As Great Lakes paid for replacement glasses for Mr A theres no policy cover for it to also 
pay for repairing his original glasses.
I understand why Mr A wanted his glasses repaired for while he was abroad but he could 
have claimed for that cost instead of the replacement glasses. Theres no basis on which 
I can reasonably say Great Lakes has to pay for the repair and replacement of his glasses.
Mr As x-rays and private consultant costs in the UK
The policy clearly says under Section 1: Emergency medical and repatriation expenses 
This is not Private Medical Insurance.
The costs of private medical treatment arent generally covered. But the same section does 
say under the heading What is covered:Your costs for United Kingdom Physiotherapysolely in relation to Your continuing 
medical condition(s) the onset of which during an Insured Journey resulted in a valid 
claim under this section of Your Policy (Great Lakes has to pre-authorise those 
costs).
Mr A didnt pay for his physiotherapy in the UK as he went through the NHS. It was his 
choice not to ask Great Lakes if it would cover the cost of private physiotherapy in his 
circumstances.
The policy doesnt cover private x-rays and medical consultations. And theres no basis for 
me to say it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to pay those costs just because Mr A 
didnt have his physiotherapy privately.
The policy Mr A and Miss G sent to us is dated 1 September 2021, so after the impact of 
Covid-19 was known. So I dont think they can reasonably say the policy cover for 
physiotherapy must have only be written for situations before Covid-19. Mr A and Miss G 
have told us that the UK hospital A&E department didnt think his fracture was urgent. If A&E 
had assessed the matter as urgent it could have arranged for a x-ray for Mr As fracture 
while he was there but it didnt do so. Ive seen no medical evidence that Mr As GP 
recommended an urgent referral and from what Mr A and Miss G say the GP didnt think the 
fracture was urgent. 
I understand why Mr A didnt want to wait to be seen through the NHS so he chose to have 
private x-rays and consultation. But that doesnt mean its reasonable for Great Lakes to 
cover those costs, which arent covered by the policy terms. Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
fairly and reasonably declined Mr As claim for the private x- rays and consultation costs in 
the UK.
Overall
For the issues Ive considered in this decision Great Lakes needs to pay another £100 in 
compensation for Mr A and Miss Gs distress and inconvenience due to its delay in handling 
their claims, as its now agreed to do.
Developments since my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt respond. Mr A and Miss G gave separate responses which included that 
their personal circumstances had now changed.
In summary, Mr A said:
Great Lakes accepted there were unnecessary delays in handling the claim due to 
the change in the business handling the claim. He believes the change of business 
caused a complete breakdown in the assistance Great Lakes should have given him 
initially and particularly on his return to the UK. He urgently needed advice from 
Great Lakes about what he could and couldnt do but never got that advice. 
In hindsight he should have asked Great Lakes for an emergency medical evacuation 
when he had the accident which he believes would have solved his problems that 
followed and meant he would be able to walk now.
As Great Lakes wasnt contactable he was left to make the decision about whether it 
was safe for him to take the cast off his leg, which the airline insisted on, when taking 
the flight home.When in the UK he still couldnt successfully contact Great Lakes to ask what he 
should do about his medical problem. He queried how he would have got pre-
authorisation for the private physiotherapy when Great Lakes wouldnt respond to 
him. 
Id been mis-informed that hed gone to A&E. He didnt go as his broken bone was by 
then three weeks old and wasnt an emergency. But it was urgent to get his broken 
foot treated and he was in a lot of pain. He phoned a private physiotherapist who 
wouldnt see him without him having seen a doctor as the physiotherapist couldnt 
recommend treatment without a x-ray and a report in English. If hed been able to 
contact Great Lakes it would have sent him to have a x-ray and report from a doctor 
before private physiotherapy, so the cost to Great Lakes would have been the same. 
He acted reasonably and in the best interests of his health in arranging his treatment. 
At one point during his treatment he was told there was a possibility of losing his leg.
His GP did think his condition was urgent but the Covid-19 situation meant he 
couldnt easily be seen by the NHS for a x-ray and consultation. So it was reasonable 
for him to go privately and that enabled him to have NHS physiotherapy quickly. Hed 
only recently been able to have surgery on his foot through the NHS.
He could provide medical reports including from the GP, private consultation and 
surgeon to support his complaint.
He didnt want to have to make a separate complaint to Great Lakes about its lack of 
medical assistance service. Hed tried to contact it recently and the phone number he 
had was invalid. If I wanted him to make a separate complaint I should make it clear 
that Great Lakes should consider his complaint.
In summary Miss G said:
Although this was a joint travel insurance the policy terms treated each person 
named on the policy as a separate individual. She and Mr A dont have a joint bank 
account. The expenses they incurred were paid for with their respective credit cards. 
Great Lakes applied the two waived excesses of £50 to Mr As claim and paid the 
£100 into his bank account. She was also charged two excesses of £50 but neither of 
her excesses were waived so shed received no compensation. 
As there was no joint bank account she queried whose bank account the £100 
compensation Id awarded would be paid into as the compensation was for both of 
them. Even if she was paid separately it means Mr A gets a total of £150 
compensation and she only £50, which wasnt fair when she had been the one who 
has spent the time and resources dealing with the claims and complaint. 
Great Lakes had wrongly told me it had paid £150 for the denture adjustment and 
£460 for the dental implant. It had only paid £35 for the tooth extraction. She noted 
my comments about her complaining directly to Great Lakes on the matter.
Before I made my decision I said to Great Lakes:
1. Would it pay the additional £100 compensation as £50 direct to Mr A and £50 direct 
to Miss G, even though they had a joint policy. Great Lakes said if Mr A and Miss G provided it with their own payee details it would 
pay each £50.
2. Mr As response to my provisional decision gives much more evidence about why he 
thinks it would be fair for Great Lakes to pay his claim for a private x-ray and medical 
consultation in the UK before he had physiotherapy. From his new evidence I now 
considered that the issue of whether Great Lakes should fairly and reasonably pay 
that claim is related to Mr As complaint about how its failure of service affected his 
medical treatment, which Id said in my provisional decision should be treated as a 
new complaint. So I was now intending to say the issue of whether Great Lakes fairly 
and reasonably declined the claim should be considered as part of the new complaint 
to Great Lakes that Mr A will be making.
Great Lakes noted that Mr A would be making a new complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Miss G havent commented on my provisional findings that Great Lakes fairly 
deducted a total of £200 for the excesses, or that Great Lakes fairly declined to pay for the 
repair as well as the replacement of Mr As glasses. So Ive no reason to change my mind on 
those matters.
Mr As response to my provisional findings means I now consider that whether Great Lakes 
should fairly and reasonably pay his claim for a private x-ray and medical consultation in the 
UK is related to his complaint about how its failure of service affected his medical treatment, 
which Id said in my provisional decision should be treated as a new complaint. 
I make no final finding in this decision about whether Great Lakes should fairly and 
reasonably pay Mr As claim for a private x-ray and medical consultation.
Mr A will need to make a separate complaint to Great Lakes about the private x-ray and 
medical consultation as well as its lack of medical assistance. When he makes the complaint 
it would be helpful to both parties if he sent Great Lakes all the evidence hes given to me in 
his response, which Ive only summarised above, and all the medical evidence he says he 
has to support the claim and his complaint for compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience due to Great Lakes poor service prolonging his medical treatment.
In my provisional findings I explained why I thought Great Lakes is responsible for service to 
Mr A and Miss G from 17 January 2022, even if the administrator changed the business it 
used for its claim handling. Great Lakes hasnt provided any evidence to show me its not 
responsible so I expect it to deal with Mr As new complaint. 
Our investigator can provide Mr A with the correct email address for him to send his new 
complaint to Great Lakes. Under the regulators rules Great Lakes will have eight weeks 
from when Mr A makes the complaint to provide a response. If it hasnt done so in that 
timescale, or the parties cant agree, then Mr A can make a separate new complaint to us 
when he should include all the evidence hes relying on. 
As to Miss Gs dental claim, she says Great Lakes has wrongly told me its paid the main 
costs she was seeking. As I said in my provisional findings, Miss G needs to first complain to 
Great Lakes about her dental claim before we can consider the matter. What Ive said about 
our investigator providing contact details for Great Lakes and it having eight weeks to respond from when the complaint is made applies to Miss G too. At the same time Miss G 
can send the missing medication receipt to Great Lakes to assess. If the parties cant reach 
agreement then she can make a separate complaint to us on that matter. 
I make no finding in this decision on whether Great Lakes reasonably settled Miss Gs dental 
claim and claim for medication.
Mr A and Miss G havent given any evidence in response to my provisional findings that  
Great Lakes should pay an additional £100 in compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its delay in handling their claims, as its now agreed. So Ive no reason 
to change my mind that the additional £100 is a reasonable amount. That means, together 
with the waived £100 excess, their total compensation for Great Lakes delay in handling 
their claims will be £200.
I note all Miss G says about her not receiving half of the initial £100 compensation through 
the waived excess. Thats a matter Miss G and Mr A will need to resolve between 
themselves. But for the additional £100 compensation that Ive awarded Great Lakes has 
agreed to send £50 to Mr A and £50 to Miss G once they send it their individual payee 
details.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mr A and Miss G an additional £100 in compensation for their distress 
and inconvenience due to its delay in handling their claims, as its now agreed. It's agreed to 
pay the £100 by sending £50 to Mr A and £50 to Miss G once they send it their individual 
payee details.
My final decision
I partially uphold the parts of Mr As and Miss Gs complaints on which Ive made findings in 
this decision, as Ive detailed above.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr A and Miss G an additional £100 in 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its delay in handling their claims, 
as its now agreed. Great Lakes Insurance SE has agreed to send £50 to Mr A and £50 to 
Miss G once they send it their individual payee details.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman