DRN-2723066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the way Topaz Finance Limited  trading as Rosinca 
Mortgages (and referred to here as Rosinca) has dealt with their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
account since the mortgage term reached its end in 2018.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs M want Rosinca to pay all their out-of-pocket expenses 
for lost rent and payment of council tax. They would also like Rosinca to disclose its 
valuation of their property and for Rosinca to agree to a lengthy period of time  at least 
three years, and preferably five years  to allow Mr and Mrs M to continue to receive rent so 
that the area where the flat is located has time to recover some reputation as a good place 
to live. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs M would like Rosinca to pay a significant sum by way of compensation 
for the trouble and upset they have been put to.
What happened
In about 2004 Mr and Mrs M took out a BTL mortgage. The mortgage was subsequently 
transferred to Rosinca. The mortgage term came to an end in 2018 and the entire account 
balance of about £95,000 became due and payable to Rosinca. The balance remains 
outstanding.
Mr and Mrs M have complained because they believe Rosinca hasnt treated them fairly in 
the way its acted or the demands it has made for payment since the mortgage term expired 
in 2018. They are also unhappy that in 2019 Rosinca refused to agree to a sale. When the 
sale didnt proceed, Mr and Mrs M wanted to rent out the property again, but Rosinca 
demanded the rental income should be paid directly to it, which Mr and Mrs M were unhappy 
about.
Rosinca didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr and Mrs M brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Ultimately, whilst sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ms situation, the 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Rosinca had shown 
sufficient forbearance in relation to the steps it had taken to assist Mr and Mrs M.
The investigator was satisfied that Rosinca wasnt obliged to agree to a sale at a shortfall. 
This is because Mr and Mrs M had provided insufficient information about their financial 
situation  including valuations of their other BTL properties. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Rosinca was entitled to refuse to allow Mr and Mrs M 
to rent out the property again, given that the mortgage term had expired. However, after 
carrying out a new valuation in September 2019, Rosinca noted that the property was worth 
only £45,000 and that units in this block were considered unmortgageable. 
In the circumstances, in October 2019, Rosinca agreed to consider forbearance for a further 
twelve months. This was conditional upon Mr and Mrs M providing details of their other BTL 
properties (valuations and outstanding mortgage balances) and for the full rent to be paid to 
Rosinca. The investigator didnt think this was unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr and Mrs M have reiterated their concerns about the way Rosinca 
has dealt with this matter. They also say the investigators assessment of the complaint is 
flawed, as she initially told them that there were Rules which applied to their situation, only 
to tell them later that these dont apply to BTL mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Im also conscious that our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any 
information that might identify Mr and Mrs M. So for all these reasons, I wont set out in 
depth all the details of the complaint. Whats happened isnt in dispute  the issue is whether 
whats happened has resulted in unfairness to Mr and Mrs M, and if so, whether this is the 
fault of Rosinca.
I will start be saying that I have considerable sympathy for the position in which Mr and 
Mrs M find themselves. They entered the BTL market in 2004, at a time when property 
prices were buoyant and developers were encouraging people to invest in BTL properties, 
often with 95% loan-to-value interest-only mortgages, buying purpose-built apartments in city 
locations, often with attractive developers incentives or discounts. 
The expectation was that rising property prices would ensure that, at the end of the 
mortgage term, the investors could sell their BTL properties, pay off the mortgages and 
make a healthy profit. However, the financial crash of 2008 had a devastating effect on the 
market, particularly in areas where thered been lots of new BTL developments. This 
resulted in a glut of this type of property on the market, even without the fall in property 
values caused by the financial crash.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M had, at one time, five BTL properties, one of which has now 
been sold, one of which is the subject of this complaint and (I understand) the other three 
are in negative equity, with expired mortgage terms. Sadly, Mr and Mrs M are now in the 
exact opposite position they thought theyd be in when they invested in 2004, and I have no 
doubt this has caused them considerable anguish and distress. 
Its against this background that I have had to make a difficult decision, because, after taking 
everything thats happened into account, I dont think Rosinca has treated Mr and Mrs M 
unfairly. I appreciate this isnt what they were hoping for, and I am sorry if my decision causes them further distress. But I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy for 
Mr and Mrs M and reach my decision on the basis of the evidence.
This is a commercial mortgage, and so although Rosinca is required to treat Mr and Mrs M 
fairly, it also has to balance this with commercial considerations. The rules laid down by the 
regulator which apply to residential mortgage borrowers which set out the steps lenders are 
required to take to help borrowers with payment shortfalls dont apply here, as this mortgage 
is unregulated. I apologise for any confusion caused to Mr and Mrs M when the investigator 
referred to these rules. But even though the mortgage is unregulated, Rosinca still has to act 
fairly, and to give proper consideration to any payment proposals.
Once Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term expired, Rosinca was entitled to expect payment in full, 
in line with the terms of the contract Mr and Mrs M had entered into with the original lender. I 
appreciate that the reason the mortgage couldnt be repaid in 2018 wasnt Mr and Mrs Ms 
fault  but it wasnt Rosincas either.
I dont consider the attempts Rosinca made to engage with Mr and Mrs M to be harassment. 
Rosinca was entitled to ask Mr and Mrs M how they intended to repay the mortgage, and to 
request information about their financial circumstances so that it could consider any 
proposals for selling or renting out the property.
I dont think Rosinca acted unfairly when it said it wouldnt agree to the property being rented 
out in 2019. At the time, the intention was for the property to be sold with vacant possession, 
so encumbering the property with a tenancy would have hampered the ability to give vacant 
possession.
I think when it became apparent that the property was in substantial negative equity, it was 
reasonable in October 2019 for Rosinca to allow a further years forbearance, granting 
consent for a new tenancy. But I also think it was reasonable for Rosinca to ask for 
valuations of Mr and Mrs Ms other BLT properties, and the outstanding mortgages. Rosinca 
wouldnt have a detailed picture of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances without this  and without 
that detailed picture, proper consideration couldnt be given to any proposals for the 
property, or look at how any shortfall would be repaid.
Furthermore, given that the mortgage debt had, in October 2019, been outstanding for well 
over a year, Rosinca was entitled to ask for the full rent to be paid to it. I see that Rosinca 
reiterated in January 2020 that it was prepared to allow twelve months forbearance, if full 
rental income was paid to it, but by February 2020, as nothing had been agreed, Rosinca 
said it would proceed to litigation. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M say Rosinca doesnt need to take them to court  they have 
already agreed to sell the property, but that Rosinca must release its charge on the property. 
But without any firm proposals about payment of any shortfall, I dont think Rosinca is under 
any obligation to release its charge.
Overall, taking everything into account, I find that Rosinca has acted fairly and reasonably in 
all the circumstances. I fully understand that Mr and Mrs M believe otherwise, but given that 
this is a commercial mortgage, the options in relation to what Rosinca is able (or expected) 
to do to help Mr and Mrs M are very limited. 
 
I note that it was the final demand issued by Rosinca in March 2020 that prompted Mr and 
Mrs M to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service. As this decision concludes the 
Financial Ombudsman Services consideration of the complaint, if the matter cant be resolved between Mr and Mrs M and Rosinca, the next step might, as a last resort, for 
Rosinca to pursue its options in court. 
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts, we are not a 
court and our powers are different from those exercised by the courts. In this context, it is 
important to explain that, by not paying the mortgage balance when it fell due, Mr and Mrs M 
are now in breach of contract, and if it remains unpaid Rosinca is entitled to pursue its legal 
remedies in court, if it chooses to do so. Where a complaint is brought to us, we can ask a 
lender to put any court proceedings on hold, but we arent required to do this and we cant 
order Rosinca to put matters on hold.
I would not want Mr and Mrs M to be under any misunderstanding that, in the event Rosinca 
decides to start legal action, any new complaint brought to us by Mr and Mrs M against 
Rosinca would automatically result in us asking Rosinca to put a halt on those proceedings. I 
hope the point is not reached where this goes to court, but if it does reach the stage of legal 
action, the more appropriate venue for Mr and Mrs M to raise any further concerns would be 
the court, rather than the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I would urge Mr and Mrs M to continue to engage with Rosinca about this matter. I think they 
might also find it helpful to take some advice from one of the free debt advisory agencies 
such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr and Mrs M with contact 
details for those organisations, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman