DRN-3151433
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a Hire 
purchase agreement with Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF). 
Mr L has been represented on this complaint, but to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr L 
in my decision
What happened
In April 2019 Mr L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with SMFL. The 
car was registered in April 2015, which means it was about four years old and had travelled 
around 76,944 miles at the time of supply. Mr L part exchanged his previous car and the 
total amount financed on this agreement was £11,638 payable over 60 months.
Mr L says that within a few days of acquiring his car he noticed juddering when changing 
gears. Mr L provided us with an invoice dated 15 May 2019 from the dealer which confirms 
that the juddering had been investigated and no faults had been found.
Mr L says that he was able to drive the car as the issue was intermittent. However, he 
explained that the issues became progressively worse. In July 2020 Mr L says the car broke 
down. It was taken to a local garage Ill refer to as M. Mr L provided a copy of the diagnostic 
and invoice which advised of a problem with the cars turbo which M repaired. This cost Mr L 
£2,241. Mr L said that hed shown the diagnostics to the dealer prior to authorising the 
repairs but was told they wouldnt do the works. SMF says the dealer didnt get the chance 
to consider repairing the car or not.
Mr L said that soon after the repair he found some job sheets with the cars logbook, for 
repairs that were carried out on his car before hed acquired it. Mr L provided us with copies 
of the job sheets, which highlight issues with the cars turbo, and also problems with the car 
juddering and kangarooing. Mr L says this is evidence that hed been supplied with a faulty 
car.
On 27 July 2020 Mr L complained to SMF about the issues with the car. In August 2020 
SMF provided Mr L with their final response to his complaint. SMF didnt uphold the 
complaint. They explained that as Mr L had continued to drive the car even though he knew 
there was an issue, and had the car inspected and repaired by M, an unauthorised garage, 
they wouldnt be liable for the costs incurred. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr L brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ls concerns and felt that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
felt that Mr L had given the dealer the opportunity around a month after supply to look into 
the issues, and so felt it was justified that Mr L had his car repaired by M. They 
recommended that SMF should reimburse Mr L for the cost of the repairs and pay him £100.
Mr L accepted our investigators view, however SMF didnt respond. So, the complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
SMF responded after the complaint had been with an ombudsman. SMFs main points were 
that Mr L had the car repaired without giving the dealer an opportunity to inspect it and that 
an MOT carried out on the car would have picked up any faults.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. SMF is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that SMF supplied Mr L with a used car that had travelled 76,944 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at 
£11,638 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car in July 2020. 
This is apparent from Ms invoices detailing an issue with the cars turbo system. 
Having considered the turbo system was faulty, it seems to me there are two key issues for 
me to consider in relation to this complaint:
1. Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L?
2. Was it reasonable for Mr L to authorise M to carry out repairs?
satisfactory quality
Mr L said to our investigator that he noticed the car was juddering about two days after 
acquiring it. Within the first month after supply Mr L brought it back to the dealer for them to 
have a look into the issues. The invoice from the dealer confirms that theyd looked into the 
juddering but didnt find a fault. Mr L says the dealer said any juddering was due to his 
driving style and how he was using the clutch. However, Mr L says the juddering became 
increasingly worse over the following year. Mr L provided copies of invoices relating to repairs and diagnostics on his car from 2018 
which confirms that problems with kangarooing and juddering were reported less than a 
year before Mr L acquired the car. 
The invoices that Ive seen ranging from June 2018 to July 2020 all refer to issues relating to 
juddering or kangarooing. They also advise of carbon build-up or repair. Mr L had also said 
that hes experienced juddering throughout; so looking at all of this Im persuaded that the 
car had an underlying fault or faults when Mr L acquired the car that are linked to the carbon 
build up, juddering and turbo.
I acknowledge that Mr Ls car would experience wear and tear due to its age and mileage, 
however, based on the evidence provided Im persuaded that in this instance the problems 
that Mr L experienced were related to the issues that were occurring less than a year before 
Mr L acquired the car, and were present when Mr L acquired the car. I recognise the car had 
an MOT completed around the time of supply, however the governments guidance on the 
scope of MOTs confirm they are a visual inspection that doesnt require the dismantling of 
parts. Im not persuaded that an MOT would necessarily identify all underlying issues that 
may be present. So, based on the evidence provided, I dont think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr L.
was it reasonable for Mr L to authorise M to carry out repairs?
Mr L brought the car into the dealer in May 2019 to investigate the issue of juddering. Mr L 
provided us with an invoice from the dealer to confirm this. The invoice has noted that no 
faults were found. However, Mr L says he continued to experience the issues. Ive already 
found that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and the invoice from the repairs carried out 
in July 2020 persuades me that the issues reported by Mr L soon after acquiring the car had 
developed into the issues that M had repaired.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr L to bring his car to M for 
repairs. I say this because hed previously brought it into the dealer while he was 
experiencing issues; and the dealer hadnt found anything wrong with the car. Mr L also 
explained that the car was of particular importance to him because he has a disabled son 
and couldnt do without the car. So, in consideration of this I think it was fair for Mr L to use a 
different garage when the problems continued to persist. 
I also think it was reasonable for Mr L to continue using the car, considering he was told that 
the car had no faults. Mr L also said the juddering was intermittent, so there may have been 
times when the car appeared to be without fault.
SMF said Mr L took away the opportunity for the dealer to repair the car. But, I think the 
dealer had the opportunity to investigate and diagnose the issue when Mr L reported it to 
them within the first month after supply. SMF also said that as per the CRA the dealer should 
be afforded the opportunity to inspect and repair the car. Based on when Mr L reported the 
issues to them, Im not persuaded that Mr L had taken that opportunity away from them. 
M is a professional vehicle servicing specialist with many years experience, I have no 
reason to doubt their ability to effectively investigate, diagnose and repair the issue with Mr 
Ls car. Mr L hasnt reported any further issues with his car since the repair carried out in 
July 2020. However, as I think the issues with Mr Ls car were present or developing at the 
point of supply, I dont think its fair that Mr L should have to pay for the repairs.Putting things right
As Ive found that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L, and that 
it was fair for Mr L to authorise M to carryout the repairs, Ill be instructing SMF to reimburse 
Mr L the full cost of repairs at £2,241 as per the invoice dated 21 July 2020. The invoice for 
the repair was in Mr Ls partners name, who is also the representative for his complaint. As 
confirmed to our investigator, Mr Ls representative lives at the same address as him which 
is consistent with the address recorded on the invoice. Mr L also said that to pay for the 
repairs he had to borrow money from family which he is paying back monthly. So, Im 
satisfied in the circumstances that the amount of this invoice should be reimbursed to Mr L 
as costs that he is liable for.
Im persuaded that this situation would have caused a degree of inconvenience for Mr L in 
trying to sort everything out, and in having to spend the money to repair the car that was 
faulty when it was supplied to him. I think £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances, so 
Ill be instructing SMF to compensate Mr L with this amount. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Startline Motor Finance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr L £2,241 for the cost of repairs as per the invoice dated 21 July 
2020*
Pay Mr L £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused to him
*Startline Motor Finance Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on this amount 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Startline Motor Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr L how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman