DRN-3292017
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Heritage Pensions Limited (Heritage) failed in its duties in 
relation to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). In particular, he says it failed to 
ensure his money was invested into the agreed asset and it has done nothing to assist him 
in trying to recover his money.
Background
Mr H referred his complaint to this Service on a joint basis with his wife, Mrs H. Although 
they own the underlying investment jointly, they each set up individual SIPP accounts with 
Heritage with separate rights and obligations.  In this decision Im only considering matters in 
relation to Mr Hs complaint against Heritage, and Mrs Hs concerns will be dealt with in a 
separate complaint.
There are several parties involved in Mr Hs complaint.  The investigator set them out in his 
initial assessment, but for the sake of clarity Ive included a summary of them below.
Heritage Pensions Limited
Heritage is a SIPP provider and administrator that is regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Its authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
Mr D / St James Place
Mr D was an appointed representative of St James Place (SJP) between 19 July 2007 and 
31 March 2012.
SJP is regulated by the FCA.  At the time of the acts complained about, it was authorised in 
relation to a number of activities in relation to pensions and investments  including to 
arrange (bring about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal and 
establishing/operating/winding up a personal pensions scheme.
Mr D was only authorised to provide advice on business available via SJP.  Neither the 
Heritage SIPP nor Harlequin investment were on the approved list and so Mr D wasnt 
authorised to give advice on either of those products.
Our Service has received a number of complaints about Mr D acting as an appointed 
reprsentative of SJP which relate to pension transfers into a SIPP and making investments 
in Harlequin.  In those cases, we have seen little evidence to support the view that he 
advised on the underlying investment.  For example, there are no suitability letters.
Pearly Gray Limited
This was an unregulated company set up by Mr D on 23 September 2010 to make 
introductions into Harlequin and to receive commission for those recommendations.
Harlequin
The Harlequin group of companies were involved in the promotion, development and 
distribution of off-plan overseas property investments and resorts  primarily based in to 
Caribbean.  None of these companies were regulated by the FCA (or its predecessor, the 
FSA).
Harlequin Management (South East) Limited promoted the investment to UK investors, 
either directly or through a network of agents and financial advisers.  Investors could invest 
into resorts developed in the Caribbean in the hope of purchasing an individual hotel room, 
apartment, cabana or villa.
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended.  In March 
2013 the Serious Fraud Office, in conjunction with the police, started investigating the 
Harlequin Group of companies.  Harlequin Management (South East) Limited subsequently 
went into administration and some senior figures involved with the companies are facing 
prosecution.
The relationship between Heritage and Mr D
Heritage has explained the following about the due diligence that it did on introducers such 
as Mr D.
Its terms of business required introducers to warrant that they took full responsibility
for the investment advice given.
It understood the need to carefully consider the quality of the business it accepted
and to protect its consumers from the risk of fraud, unauthorised advice or detriment.
It applied strict and non-negotiable principles of business hurdles to all new business.
This was a checklist of seven objectives  but which wasnt exhaustive. These were 
designed as a safety net to control the quality of business and reflected likely 
indicators of poor quality or inappropriate advice/suitability. If these were breached it
would automatically refuse to accept business.
It undertook appropriate due diligence into introducers prior to establishing a
business relationship. It was very selective and regularly declined business with 
introducers in whom it had no confidence.
Heritage also explained the nature of its specific relationship with Mr D:
Mr D was introduced to it in September 2009 by an existing IFA with whom Heritage
had an established business relationship.
Mr D said he had been granted permission by SJP to use his own preferred SIPP 
provider to write low volume high quality business.
It acted reasonably in relying on Mr Ds representation that as a regulated individual 
he was duly authorised by SJP and that the advice would be subject to high quality 
control and supervision.
It conducted the appropriate due diligence by checking that Mr D and SJP were
authorised by the FSA (now FCA). It also checked SJP had the required permissionsto provide financial advice.
It obtained documents from Companies House about SJP to verify its existence.
Mr D lived locally and almost every time he introduced new business, he brought the 
documents into Heritages office in person. He would also routinely give Heritage an 
appraisal of his discussions and the advice he had given.
These meetings were also the forum by which Heritage was kept up to date of any
developments regarding Mr Ds practises at SJP. As monitoring was undertaken on a 
verbal face to face basis there was no need to put in place a formal routine of 
quarterly reviews.
In July 2010 Mr D provided Heritage with information about the Harlequin investment. 
He explained this could be of interest to a select number of his existing clients.
Heritage undertook its own due diligence on the investment and allowed it into the 
SIPP.
In October 2010 Mr D said he intended to operate as an appointed representative of 
SJP to give regulated advice. He had also set up a company called Pearly Gray to 
promote the Harlequin investment to his clients.
Heritage understood Mr D, acting on behalf of his promoter company Pearly Gray
would introduce the Harlequin investment. If clients liked the idea, Mr D would then 
give regulated advice on behalf of SJP.
It relied reasonably on Mr Ds indication that introductions would be low volume and 
high quality.
In October 2010 Mr D was asked to sign new terms of business and to provide more 
information to complete an Introducer Profile. Its understanding was Mr D was an 
appointed representative of SJP with over 10 years of regulated experience. SJP 
was a very well-known and reputable wealth management business with rigorous 
oversight. So, it reasonably concluded a lower level of due diligence was appropriate.
By October 2011 Mr D told Heritage that he anticipated sales of Harlequin 
investments would slow down. By March 2012 he said he wouldnt be promoting 
Harlequin to more clients. He was also in the process of surrendering his Financial 
Services Authority (now Financial Conduct Authority FCA) authorisation.
Heritage has provided the minutes of a number of meetings it had with Mr D.  Some of the 
key extracts are summarised below:
16 September 2009
Mr D explained that he wanted to work with a local SIPP provider for clients who wanted to 
self-invest. Mr D worked as an appointed representative of SJP but he didnt want to use 
their SIPP provider on panel. This is because he felt the approved SIPP operator provided 
poor service.
Mr D explained that he was permitted to use his own preferred SIPP provider where 
appropriate and he wanted a local SIPP provider with whom he could build a good working
relationship.Mr D said he didnt write vast volumes of business and his focus was on quality business 
and doing the right thing. He explained business was sourced from friends and by word of 
mouth and he hadnt received any complaints.
8 June 2010
Mr D said he was looking at an investment called Harlequin which he felt might be suitable 
for some of his clients. He asked if Heritage could review the investment and approve it.
4 October 2010
Mr D was asked to sign new terms of business and assist with the completion of an 
Introducer Profile document.
Mr D also explained that whilst he remained with SJP he had just set up Pearly Gray to 
receive commission for the Harlequin investment.
5 October 2010
The introducer profile document completed on 5 October 2010 confirmed the following:
The firm name was [Mr D] and he was an appointed representative of SJP.
The firm held regulatory permission to advise on pension transfers and investments.
Mr D had over 10 years of experience.
The compliance procedure was set by the compliance department with SJP.
Under the section headed What is the process for monitoring pension sales it was recorded 
that:
Introductions received from referrals, from professional connections and word of 
mouth. [Mr D] provides client with a business card and SJP information pack to 
include client agreement and fees and charges. All business written submitted and 
added to SJP central records with oversight supervision.
Under the section headed ' What is the process for monitoring pension transfer and pension
switching it was noted that:
All business processed including pension transfers to SIPPs recorded on central 
register with oversight supervision (no occupational scheme transfers).
No occupational scheme transfers were expected.
The firm had over 100 advisors and it had done in excess of 1,000 transfers. There 
was no known execution only transfers.
Only a small proportion of the firms overall pension plans and recommended in the 
last business year were represented by SIPP and SSAS.It was recorded that the features the firm looked for in a SIPP was investment 
flexibility and efficient administration. And that it was looking for technical support 
from a local provider.
The firms fee structure was a maximum of 5% of the transfer value and ongoing fees 
of 1% of the fund value.
The firm undertook regular training and performance management with access to 
specialist colleagues for highly technical areas.
The firms plan over the next 12 months was to write more business and get more 
funds under management and Heritage could assist this aim by providing SIPP and 
SSAS administration for individual client requirements.
It was recorded in summary that:
There are a number of questions where there has not been disclosure, however St 
James Place are a FTSE 100 company and consider this information to be 
commercially sensitive. Therefore in view of their size and reputation we consider the 
risk of this information not being disclosed represents minimal risk.
3 October 2011
Mr D explained there would be a slowing down of Harlequin sales. He had exhausted
his clients suited to this and he would look at other opportunities. It was noted he was still
with SJP.
13 April 2012
Mr D confirmed that he had left SJP and he would be focusing on non-regulated business. 
Heritage explained to Mr D that all potential SIPP investments must be researched prior to 
acceptance in its SIPP.
Heritage has also confirmed the following about the volumes of business that it received
from Mr D:
Mr D introduced 45 clients from October 2010 to March 2012. All of these were 
introduced on an advised basis.
Mr Ds introductions constituted 14% of all business received from October 2010 to 
March 2012.
95% of applications invested in non-mainstream investments. I understand most if 
not all were invested in Harlequin.
Overall 180 members invested in Harlequin of which 42 were introduced by Mr D. 
Harlequin represented less than 20% of its overall business.
Mr Hs dealings with Heritage and Mr D
Mr Hs relationship with Heritage began when he took out a Heritage SIPP in 2009. Having
considered the submissions Mr H has made to Heritage and to our Service I note he has 
said the following:The introduction to Heritage was made by Mr D and his SIPP was set up with a view 
to purchasing a commercial property. This was made in 2009 and funds from his 
pension provider was transferred around the beginning of November 2009.
When the commercial property fell through Mr D advised of alternative investments 
within the SIPP.
In July 2020 Mr D recommended investing in Harlequin (Marquis Estate) to him and 
his brother. The meeting took place at his brothers house. He felt pressured into 
signing the paperwork and he later realised that this included an introducer 
agreement for Pearly Gray Ltd.
Following the above meeting he was provided with little documentation from Mr D. 
He proceeded with the advice in good faith.
He subsequently discovered that the monies which were meant for investment in the 
Gary Player Resort (which was one of the Harlequin properties) was used to invest in 
another property/investment without his consent or knowledge.
A complaint was made to SJP about the advice that was given by Mr D. However, 
this wasnt upheld as Mr D wasnt authorised to undertake the activity being 
complained about under the terms of his appointed representative agreement with 
SJP.
His experience is in construction law. He doesnt have experience of 
investment/pensions and was reliant on the advice given.
November 2009
Mr H took out a SIPP with Heritage, following advice from Mr D, a financial adviser not 
connected with Heritage. However, the proposed commercial property didnt go ahead.
30 July 2010
Mr H completed a Harlequin Property Reservation form. The purchase price was £375,000 
and it was to be invested in the Gary Player resort.
2 August 2010
A Variation Agreement was signed by Mr H and Heritage.
28 October 2010
Heritage say Mr H contacted Heritage on his own behalf and on behalf of his brother (who 
was also investing in the same way following advice and arrangement of Mr D). Heritage say 
Mr H explained they had met with senior Harlequin representatives who had satisfied them 
about the investment. However, they wanted Heritages reassurances about the investment 
as well.
Heritage say it was clearly explained that it cant give advice.
28 October 2010Mr H signed an introducers agreement with Mr Ds unregulated company, Pearly Gray. The 
agreement said that Pearly Gray will introduce him to a proposed purchase of a property in a 
hotel to be constructed in the Caribbean, on the island of St Lucia. In doing so Pearly Gray 
and its owners, directors or staff did not act as Mr Hs financial adviser or as counsellor in 
any form in respect of the investment, but as agent for the seller of the property (Harlequin).
By signing the agreement Mr H acknowledged that Pearly Grays role was not that of an
adviser and that he would make his own enquiries and conduct his own investigation 
concerning the property.
28 October 2010
A contract of sale was signed between Mr H (as trustee), Heritage (as SIPP trustee) and
Harlequin. According to the contract, subject to receipt of the purchase price (referred to in
the contract particulars as £375,000 and payable in accordance with a specified payment
schedule).  The contract set out specific details of the property number which was located on 
the Marquis Estate (Gary Player Golf Hotel) in St Lucia.
Mr H owned 80% of the property and his wife, Mrs H, owned 20% of the property.
28 October 2010
Mr H signed a Heritage appropriateness test form in respect of the Harlequin investment. 
The form explained that this test was introduced by the industry regulator and applied to 
investments made without advice from a financial adviser. It also clarified that such a form 
needed to be completed when a client wished to instruct Heritage to make an investment 
defined as a complex investment and had not sought advice from an authorised financial 
adviser. It also confirmed that Heritage did not provide financial advice and would not assess 
whether the investment met the clients financial requirements.
28 October 2010
Mr H signed a letter of understanding. This gave clear warnings about the loss of benefits 
that would result in the transfer to the Heritage SIPP.
1 November 2010
Heritage confirmed that it had received Mr Hs investment applications and had forwarded a 
cheque for his investment to Mr D. Mr H had written a cheque for £90,000  representing his 
80% share of the 30% deposit payment due to Harlequin.
January 2012
Heritage informed Mr H that one of its representatives held regular meetings with 
representatives of Harlequin throughout 2011 and received an overview of all the resorts and
hotels Harlequin was developing. Heritage said that Harlequin confirmed that the progress of
the Marquis Hotel was on schedule and due to complete in December 2013. Heritage also 
said that it would send Mr H copies of further details that Harlequin would provide, as well as 
a more comprehensive due diligence report, as soon as it received it from Harlequin.
18 December 2012
Heritage informed Mr H that it had decided to suspend any further investments in Harlequin, 
following a meeting with Harlequins legal advisers and external accountants. There had 
been allegations against Harlequin, which included accounting irregularities and Heritage explained that its solicitors had not seen any evidence of wrong doing; however, it was 
bringing this information to the attention of its investors so they could form their own opinion.
8 March 2013
Mr H wrote to Heritage. He explained that he expected Harlequin to spend the monies as
intended. He also explained that he understood from Mr D that the whole point of the SIPP 
was to have much greater control over the pension, and this is why he was invited to 
withdraw monies from the existing pension and invest in the SIPP.
5 November 2013
Mr H made a complaint to Heritage who issued its final response on 5 November 2013 not 
upholding the complaint.
Our investigation
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service in early 2014 and the complaint was initially 
reviewed by an investigator who recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and a 
nominal amount of compensation be paid to Mr and Mrs H jointly.  But recently the complaint 
was fully reviewed by one of our senior investigators who issued his assessment.
In summary, the investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Heritage should have had concerns and made further checks because:
Mr D was using Heritage SIPP rather than a SIPP provider approved by SJP  and 
so Heritage should have checked the business model with SJP directly.
There was risk of consumer detriment as Mr D setting up Pearly Gray to receive 
commission could cause a conflict of interests.
It was unusual for commission to have been paid to Pearly Gray when the initial 
introduction was done before Pearly Gray was incorporated. 
Harlequin was a high-risk esoteric investment and not suitable for many consumers. 
Had Heritage checked with SJP and found that Mr D didnt have permission to give 
advice on Harlequin, it would have known there was a risk of consumer detriment.
The investment made into Harlequin was only the 30% deposit of the contracted 
purchase price  which means that Mr H would have needed to secure substantial 
further funding to complete the purchase. This increased the risk of consumer 
detriment.
Mr H accepted the investigators assessment, but Heritage didnt reply by the requested 
response date. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to 
me to review everything afresh and decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 
3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
clients and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression 
in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair 
and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim 
of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to 
attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment in the High Court.  The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, and 
in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options 
SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Adams case.  The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case). 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mrs Ts case.   
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mrs Ts complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mrs Ts case, including Heritages role in the 
transaction.  However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations 
which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I have 
considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they 
are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that 
a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer 
in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, 
taken from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we 
have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing 
SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of 
its clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analyzing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states: This guide, originally 
published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further guidance to help meet 
the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended requirements, but a reminder of 
regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the 
firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or 
cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does 
not appear on the FCA website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP 
business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal 
with, the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types 
of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually 
small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted 
shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the 
SIPP operators have considered the additional risks involved in 
accepting business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing 
this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, 
HMRC is informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in 
respect of the introducers that use their scheme and, where 
appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place in order to 
identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to 
the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing 
Companies House records, identifying connected parties 
and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on 
has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would 
lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further 
investigations such as instances of potential pension liberation, 
investments that may breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-
standard investments that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both 
at point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc).
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that the publications 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, 
as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Heritage complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr H), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Heritage could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
What did Heritages obligations mean in practice?
I should make it clear that Heritage as the SIPP operator wasnt responsible for giving advice 
to Mr H, nor could it assess the suitability of any advice Mr H had received.  But as set out 
above, Heritage did have regulatory obligations to ensure Mr H was being treated fairly and 
reasonably.
In this case, the business Heritage was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client). HHJ Dight said at 
paragraph 148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
In this case Heritage has said its understanding was that Mr D was providing advice to Mr H 
and that fell under the authorisation he had as an appointed representative of SJP. Whilst 
Heritage could have taken some comfort from that, it doesnt mean that it didnt have its own 
responsibility to ensure Mr H was being treated fairly and reasonably and act in Mr Hs best 
interests.
In paragraph 159 of the Adams judgment HHJ Dight said:
to ascertain the suitability or otherwise of the investment for the claimant himself 
the defendant would have had to make detailed enquiries about the claimant's 
financial circumstances and, in my view, take advice on the value of the investment, 
evaluate the risks inherent in and lastly make a judgment call on the question of 
whether those risks were appropriate for the claimant in the light of the information 
which they had obtained about his financial situation and appetite for risk. That was 
not the role which the parties had agreed in the contract that the defendant would 
have. COBS Rule 2.1.1 cannot, in my view, be interpreted as requiring the defendant 
to take those steps.
In my view this simply says that the obligation to act in a clients best interests set by COBS 
2.1.1R does not oblige a firm to give advice on the suitability of an investment for an 
individual investor, where the firm was not contracted to provide advice. That is consistent 
with the approach I am taking in this complaint. In this section of the judgment, the alleged 
breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into the SIPP what was claimed to 
be a manifestly unsuitable underlying investment, where suitability meant suitability for Mr 
Adams. The judge does not say the SIPP operator was not obliged to give any consideration to whether to accept or reject an application. Only that such consideration did not need to 
include the suitability of the intended investment for the individual investor. It does not follow 
from this, for example, that the SIPP operator was obliged to accept and execute the clients 
instructions in all circumstances. 
And, in my view, refusing to accept an application is not the same thing as advising Mr H on 
the merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP  there is a difference.  
Its clear to me that Heritage understood these obligations existed and knew it could (and 
should where appropriate) refuse to accept business.  Heritage has confirmed that it did 
carry out checks on introducers and had in place a series of strict business hurdles.  It says 
if these were breached it would automatically refuse business and that it regularly declined 
business with introducers in whom it had no confidence.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. That involves conducting 
checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to make informed decisions about 
accepting business.  The obligation was a continuing one. And in practice Heritage seems 
to have accepted the need to carry out some checks.  
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, Heritage needed to conduct its business with 
due, skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr H) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect were not prescriptive and depended on the nature of 
the circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
What due diligence did Heritage carry out on Mr D?
I agree with our investigator that its clear Heritage understood and accepted that its 
obligations meant it had to carry out appropriate due diligence on Mr D to ensure the quality 
of business it was introducing, and on the investments before accepting them into Mr Hs 
SIPP.  And to do this it needed to carry out checks on Mr Ds business model.
Heritage did have terms of business in place with Mr D and asked him to complete an 
introducer profile.  I acknowledge it did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  
which amounted to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations. 
However, I think, with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice in mind, Heritage 
ought to have done more at the outset of its relationship with Mr D and did not, in any event, 
draw fair and reasonable conclusions from the information available to it by the time of Mr 
H's application. Had Heritage done more at the outset and/or drawn fair and reasonable
conclusions from what it knew, it ought in my view to have concluded that it should not
accept Mr H's application from Mr D.
Mr D not using the SJP approved SIPP provider
In Heritages initial meeting with Mr D he explained that he doesnt want to use the SIPP
provider on panelHe is permitted to use his own preferred SIPP provider
where appropriate.
SJP had its own preferred panel of providers. Mr D wasnt an independent financial adviser 
but was rather an appointed representative of SJP. I think its highly unusual that a business 
which had its own panel SIPP would be willing to allow its appointed representative (who 
was tied to them directly) to recommend a competitors product. Not only would this mean a loss of potential profits (from SIPP charges etc), but it also could have an adverse impact on 
its brand.
Heritage was aware that SJP had its own panel of approved providers. So, I would 
reasonably have expected Heritage to have questioned why SJP would go through the 
process of having a preferred panel; only then to allow its appointed representative to use 
another SIPP operator. What is the point of SJP having an approved panel of providers if Mr 
D could just choose whoever he wanted anyway? The purpose of having a panel of 
providers is for a business such as SJP to retain control and oversight of what its advisers 
are doing  this seems contrary to what Mr D says he was allowed to do and so seems 
unlikely.
Mr D said that he was permitted to use his own provider where appropriate. So even if
Heritage took what Mr D said at face value (and I dont think that was reasonable) it was on
notice that there could be instances where this wasnt appropriate.
I also note in the introducer profile under the section headed What are the firms business
objectives for the coming 12 months? it was recorded that On board more partners, write
more business and get more funds under management. So, I think its fair for Heritage to
have considered how this objective would be met with Mr D, an appointed representative of 
SJP, recommending a SIPP provider that wasnt on the panel and an investment directly into 
Harlequin wouldnt promote SJPs aim of fund management.
I think this was a red flag which Heritage should have thought about carefully, especially as
Mr D wasnt an IFA but an appointed representative of SJP. Given this I dont think simply 
accepting what the appointed representative has said at face value is enough. So, for 
example, an appointed representative might say that the principal has the appropriate 
permissions to undertake investment/pension related activities. However, good practice is for 
a business to check to make sure this is correct.
So, I think its reasonable to say that Heritage should have made further enquiries to 
understand in what circumstances was it appropriate for Mr D to use another SIPP provider.  
For example, Heritage could have contacted the SJP directly to clarify this. However, I 
havent seen any evidence it made any such enquiry.
I appreciate some information is commercially sensitive; however, making enquiries as to
whether an appointed representative can recommend other SIPP providers product is not in
my view onerous. Had it done so, I think it soon would have been made clear to it that Mr D
wasnt authorised to recommend Heritages SIPP, and that he was acting in his individual 
interest rather than following SJPs requirements.
Pearly Gray
Heritage was made aware that Mr D had set up an unregulated business (Pearly Gray) that 
would receive commission for any Harlequin introductions. I think this should have given
Heritage cause for concern as it was an unorthodox business model and ought reasonably 
to have raised concerns of a potential conflict of interest.
This arrangement also appears to be significantly different to the business model initially 
proposed to Heritage by Mr D. In his initial meeting in September 2009 Mr D explained that 
he didnt write vast volumes of business and his focus was on quality business and doing the 
right thing. He explained business was sourced from friends and by word of mouth (my 
emphasis) and he hadnt received any complaints. In the 2010 introducer profile Mr D 
explained that introductions were received from referrals, from professional 
connections and word of mouth (my emphasis)Initially business was being sourced from word of mouth/referrals  but by proposing
to set up an unregulated introducer (Pearly Gray), Mr D appeared to be actively seeking 
consumers to invest in a highly esoteric investment.
Its reasonable to conclude that this created a risk that Mr D acting in his capacity as Pearly 
Gray  had a financial interest in the client choosing to invest  would encourage or even 
pressure clients into choosing to invest in unsuitable investments. This created a potential 
conflict of interest and should have alerted Heritage to the possibility of consumer detriment.
So, I would expect Heritage to have questioned what safeguards were in place to ensure 
there wasnt consumer detriment as a result of Mr Ds involvement in the capacity of an 
unregulated introducer.
I note in the introducer profile Mr D explained that all business was submitted and added to 
SJP central records with oversight supervision. I think its fair to say Heritage could take 
some comfort from Mr Ds regulated capacity as an appointed representative of SJP  but 
carrying on activities in an unregulated capacity could not give the same level of assurance.
Its also unclear if Heritage asked Mr D how much commission the unregulated introducer  
Pearly Gray Ltd  would receive from Harlequin. Its well known that Harlequin offered 
significant commission as inducement for successful introductions. I think this should have 
given cause for concern and added to the risk of consumer detriment.
Heritage has explained that Mr D came to the office and verbally explained the 
circumstances of each application. Whilst I again accept that Heritage could take some 
comfort from this, I also think Heritage should have done more, especially given that it knew 
the involvement of Mr D in his capacity as an unregulated business. 
Those verbal explanations should have been clearly documented in a controlled manner as 
without those, Heritage would be limited in the way could monitor business and put controls 
in place as expected to under the good practice set out in the 2009 review. Also, by not 
having written records and by relying on verbal assurances, theres no apparent mechanism 
for control, audit or reporting as was good practice.
In the 2009 thematic review the FSA explained the following was an example of good 
practice:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Heritage requested copies of suitability reports. If it had 
requested them, I think it would have been clear that Mr D was rarely if ever giving regulated 
investment advice in his capacity as an appointed representative of SJP. I say this because 
we have received a number of complaints both against SJP about the advice given by Mr D, 
and also against Heritage for accepting introductions from him. Its clear from these 
complaints that Mr D wasnt giving advice on the underlying investments in his capacity as 
an appointed representative of SJP.
I think as good practice Heritage should have asked for suitability letters. Particularly at the
outset of its relationship with Mr D  so it could satisfy itself about the understanding of
the model and the respective obligations being fulfilled. Had it done so, it would have been
apparent that Mr D wasnt doing what he said he would be. This would have given Heritage significant cause for concern as it would have been 
apparent to it that Mr Ds process would not prevent these unsuitable investments. Mr Ds 
process was such that he did not consider the suitability of the investment, but only advised 
on the suitability of transferring or switching existing pensions to a SIPP  something he 
could not reasonably or safely do without considering the overall transaction. Mr D could not 
know, and therefore could not safely give advice upon, the suitability of the transfer or switch 
to the SIPP without considering the suitability of how funds were to be invested.
Also, if Mr D wasnt giving advice on the underlying investment in his capacity as an 
appointed representative of SJP, the only other party appeared to be the unregulated 
introducer  Pearly Gray. If that entity gave advice it would be breaching the general 
prohibition as it wasnt regulated to give advice. This would also be a red flag and increase 
the risk of consumer detriment.
I accept Mr H may have believed he was being given advice by Mr D acting in the capacity 
as an appointed representative of SJP. However, Mr H wasnt a sophisticated investor with 
pension experience, and he may not have understood the distinction between restricted 
advice about the pensions transfer, and full advice including the underlying investments 
themselves. 
The reality is that Mr D didnt give advice on the underlying investments in his capacity as an 
agent of SJP. Im also satisfied Heritage would have realised this was the case if it had 
asked for a copy of the suitability letters.
Heritage has in other cases pointed to the alleged failings on the part of SJP. However, this 
doesnt mean it can abdicate its own responsibility to undertake appropriate due diligence
checks. If Heritage had asked for copies of suitability letters it would have been very 
apparent that business wasnt being submitted to SJP about the investments. This would 
have given it cause for concern.
Asking for suitability letters doesnt mean Heritage would have been responsible for the 
advice. As the regulator explained in the 2009 thematic review having this information
would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable
SIPPs less likely.  At the very least it would have assured Heritage whether customers such 
as Mr H were receiving advice at all.
Mr Hs introduction by Pearly Gray
When Mr D met with Mr H, Pearly Gray hadnt been set up. However, by the time Mr H 
signed most of the paperwork (28 October 2020), Heritage was aware that Mr D had set up 
Pearly Gray to receive commission. 
An introducer agreement was signed between Mr H and Pearly Gray on 28 October, but 
Heritage knew that Harlequin had been recommended to Mr H before that time.  Heritage 
should have been concerned by this  particularly as all the paperwork was dated that same 
day, meaning there was little if any time available for checks to be made and advice given.
The investment due diligence Heritage carried out on Harlequin
Heritage knew that Mr D was hoping to introduce investors for the purpose of investing in 
Harlequin  an investment that would be considered high risk and not suitable for the 
pensions of most retail investors.  So, it also knew there was a real risk of consumer 
detriment if Mr D was acting inappropriately.I accept that Heritage did undertake some due diligence checks on Harlequin and concluded 
that it was appropriate to be held with a SIPP.  But that is not the same as ensuring there is 
no consumer detriment. 
Mr Hs contract with Harlequin involved a purchase price of £375,000 for an off-plan 
property.  A 30% deposit was funded by payment from his SIPP (and jointly from his wifes 
SIPP), and there was a further schedule of payments due at different stages of completion of 
the development.  This meant Mr H (and Mrs H) would need to find further funds or secure 
finance in order to complete the purchase  again increasing the risk of consumer detriment.
Did Heritages failings cause Mr Hs loss?
In this decision Ive looked at Heritages role and responsibilities, and Ive found that it failed 
to meet those responsibilities. So, I need to consider what Mr H would have done if that had 
not happened.
Heritage has referred to Mr H having industry knowledge through his own professional 
experience of the construction industry. Whilst Ive considered this point, I think its of limited 
relevance.  This transaction involved the opening of a SIPP and making an investment within 
it  which is something Ive seen no evidence Mr H has experience of.  Additionally, I note 
Mr H contacted Heritage about the viability of the investment at the time  which supports 
the position he was an inexperienced investor and wanted reassurance.
I cannot see that there is any evidence that Mr H was motivated to open his SIPP and invest 
in Harlequin because of, for example, an incentive payment as in the Adams v Options SIPP 
case.  In my view, there is nothing to suggest that Mr H would have moved his pension or 
invested in Harlequin if he had not been encouraged to do so by Mr D.  And Mr D only acted 
in that way because Heritage agreed to accept the business he referred to it.
I consider it unlikely that Mr H would have been advised to move his pension by Mr D acting 
on behalf of SJP appropriately advising on its approved products. Nor do I consider that any 
other regulated financial adviser acting reasonably would have advised Mr H that investing 
his pension in Harlequin was suitable for him.  
So, I dont think Mr H would have suffered his loss if Heritage had refused to accept his 
application. 
In summary
Its my view that Heritage knew enough about Mr D and his business model to have had 
cause for concern about accepting Mr Hs business. It was aware that:
Mr D was proposing to use an alternative SIPP operator other than the providers 
available on the panel of his Principal  which is very unusual.
Mr D had set up an unregulated business to introduce the Harlequin investment 
and receive commission  creating the possibility of a conflict of interest and the 
risk of consumer detriment.
Mr Hs introduction to Harlequin was made before Pearly Gray was incorporated 
yet all the documents were completed at a later date to enable the receipt of 
commission.Given what Heritage knew, or ought to have known, about Mr D and his Principal before it 
received Mr Hs application, it didnt comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, 
care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr H fairly by 
accepting his business. And I think that, in not doing so, it allowed him to be put at 
significant risk of detriment.
To be clear, Im not saying that Heritage should have assessed the suitability of the 
investment or SIPP for Mr H  and I accept it could not give him advice.  My finding is not 
that Heritage should have concluded the SIPP or Harlequin investment was unsuitable for 
Mr H. Instead, it is that Heritage did not meet its regulatory obligations, or treat Mr H fairly, 
by accepting the business introduced by Mr D.
Putting things right
Ive considered what is a fair and reasonable way to put things right.  My aim is to put Mr H 
as closely as possible into the position he would reasonably be in had things not gone 
wrong.
I note that Mr H had initially wanted to transfer his personal pension into the SIPP to give 
him more control and enable the possibility to purchase a commercial property. But Mr D 
introduced him to the idea of Harlequin and had Heritage not accepted that investment then I 
dont believe he would have gone ahead.  Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Heritage should do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark set out 
below.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, it should pay the 
amount direct to him.  But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
notionally to allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.  This is 
an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation 
is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, so the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.In addition, Heritage should pay £500 to Mr H for the trouble and upset hes 
experienced as a result of the uncertainty of his position and inability to make 
pension plans.
Heritage must provide details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Harlequin investment and 
used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.  
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr H or into 
his SIPP within 28 days of the date Heritage receives notification of his acceptance of 
this final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation is not paid within 28 days.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Heritage considers that its required by 
Mr Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he 
asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Harlequin Still exists FTSE UK Date of Date of Not applicable
investment but illiquid Private investment settlement
Investors
Income Total
Return Index
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  Heritage should take ownership of the 
Harlequin investment by paying a commercial value  and this amount should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Heritage cannot purchase the Harlequin investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of the calculation.  Heritage may wish to require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay any amount he may receive from that investment in the future  and that 
undertaking must allow for tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt 
from the pension plan.  Heritage should meet any costs of drawing up an undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal from Mr Hs pension plan should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill
accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Hs circumstances and risk attitude.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understandingcompensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, 
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
I note Mr H has raised concerns that the monies invested werent assigned to the correct 
Harlequin property. I think its fair to say that Heritage should have ensured the funds were 
allocated where they were intended for. However, as I dont think Heritage should have 
accepted the business at all, its fair to say Mr H should never have been in this position. The 
redress I have recommended puts Mr H in as close to the financial position he would be in if 
he hadnt invested in Harlequin at all.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Heritage 
Pensions Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and or costs that I think are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
The full extent of Mr Hs loss has not yet been calculated (as set out above), but it is possible 
his loss may exceed the £150,000 award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Heritage should pay Mr H the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. It should also pay any interest 
accrued if the compensation is not paid within 28 days of acceptance of a final decision by 
Mr H.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Heritage pays Mr H the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Heritage doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court for the 
balance. Mr H may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman