DRN-1121301
The complaint
Mr F has complained about how TSB Bank plc handled the switch of his current account 
from another bank, and that he didnt receive his PIN. 
What happened
Mr F wanted to switch his current account to TSB. He started to do this online but there was 
a technical issue so he called TSB to clarify the status of the account. When he called TSB, 
he was transferred numerous times and in the end was told there was an issue and the 
account set up hadnt completed. So Mr F applied again. Both applications were successful 
so Mr F had two accounts set up when he only wanted one. He found he could only access 
one account from his online banking and this wasnt the one he wanted to switch into. Mr F 
complained to TSB about the confusion and stress this had caused him.
TSB closed the additional account within two weeks of the initial error and later confirmed 
with Mr F that he could access his remaining account online.
Mr F also complained that he didnt receive his PIN for the debit card on the account he had 
funds in. As a result he had to go to the branch to access his money. TSB said that a card 
and PIN are automatically ordered on account opening. They said they rely on their mail 
service provider to deliver the PIN and didnt think this was a bank error. 
TSB apologised for the misleading information that Mr F was given on the phone. They 
recognised that this was frustrating, stressful and inconvenient for Mr F and paid £325 into 
his account to compensate him for what he had experienced. They paid an additional £50 to 
compensate Mr F for any phone calls and travel expenses incurred as a result of their errors. 
Mr F didnt think the amount TSB paid him was enough to compensate him for the impact 
their errors had on him so he asked TSB to reopen his case. After chasing TSB for several 
weeks he brought his complaint to us.  
Our investigator looked at Mr Fs complaint and felt that although TSB had made errors, they 
had put those errors right and the compensation they had paid to Mr F was fair and 
reasonable. Our investigator didnt think TSB needed to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint.  Mr F didnt agree with our investigator and so the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that the compensation TSB has paid Mr F is fair and reasonable and they dont 
need to pay any more  Ill explain why. 
Ive made my decision by thinking about what TSB has done wrong in this situation  and 
then considering the impact it has had on Mr F, taking into account what hes told us.
TSB have admitted that the information they gave Mr F about the technical issues he 
experienced was unclear. Theyve said its understandable that Mr F opened a second account based on this information. So I dont think theres any doubt that TSB did make an 
error here.
Ive thought about what TSB have said about the PIN. Because it was ordered automatically, 
there is no evidence on the banks systems to show that the bank sent it. But this is a system 
that TSB relies on every day. So I think its probable that the bank sent Mr Fs PIN unless 
there was a system error on the day it should have been sent. TSB have checked to see if 
there were any notes of system errors that day but they havent found any. So, on balance, I 
think its likely that TSB sent Mr Fs PIN but that he unfortunately didnt receive it. I dont 
think TSB have done anything wrong in this respect.
When thinking about the impact of TSBs error on Mr F, I have taken into account his mental 
health conditions. He has told us that the error caused him to be more anxious and to have 
more panic attacks than he generally experiences. I can appreciate that it can be very 
stressful to change bank accounts and all the more so when it doesnt go smoothly. So I can 
understand why Mr F was upset about it. 
TSB corrected the situation within two weeks so that Mr F had only one account open and 
full online access to that account. So I dont think Mr F suffered the direct impact of TSBs 
error for very long. 
I can understand that Mr F continued to be stressed and anxious after the error  after TSB 
sent their final response letter, Mr F asked them to reopen the complaint and phoned the 
bank on numerous occasions, often more than once a week, to chase this up. I can 
appreciate that this would have caused Mr F more anxiety. But TSB had already sent Mr F 
the final response letter and directed him to our service. 
So I think TSBs error only impacted Mr F for around two weeks. I appreciate the impact it 
had on him was increased because of his mental health condition but I think the 
compensation of £325 that TSB paid in respect of this is fair and reasonable. 
Mr F hasnt told us about any specific costs he incurred as a result of TSBs errors, so I dont 
think TSB need to increase the £50 they have paid to cover phone calls and travel 
expenses.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc has already paid £375 to Mr F to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in 
all the circumstances. So my decision is that they dont need to do anything else to settle the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman