DRN-3672074
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Exeter Friendly Society Limited handled her claim against her 
private medical insurance policy. 
Mrs Hs son, Mr H, is assisting her in bringing the complaint.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs H had private medical insurance with Exeter for many 
years. The policy renewed on an annual basis in April each year. 
Mrs H was suffering from swollen and painful legs. In October and November 2020, 
Exeter authorised claims in relation to investigations about that. In August 2021, Mrs H 
was diagnosed with lymphoedema and lipodermatosclerosis. Mr H contacted Exeter 
about a claim for decongestive lymphatic therapy  an intensive course of massage and 
multilayer bandaging. Exeter authorised the therapy and it began in September 2021. 
Exeter subsequently discovered that it had authorised the therapy in error, but it decided 
that, on an ex-gratia basis, it would pay for the sessions it had already authorised.   
In October 2021, Mr H asked Exeter to authorise further decongestive lymphatic therapy. 
Exeter decline to do so. It said that Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover the treatment she 
requires. Mr H didnt think that was fair and pursued the complaint on Mrs Hs behalf. 
Mr H says that Mrs H had a policy with Exeter for over 32 years. He says that Exeter 
should have told him when it discovered its mistake. Mr H says its unreasonable for 
Exeter to withdraw funding halfway through treatment it has previously authorised. He 
says that Exeters action in withdrawing funding means that Mrs Hs condition will return. 
Mr H says that decongestive lymphatic therapy isnt physiotherapy and that its absurd 
for Exeter to decline cover on the basis that Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover therapies or 
because the treatment isnt administered by a doctor in a hospital setting. Mr H has 
provided a supporting letter from Mrs Hs consultant. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Exeter had 
treated Mrs H unfairly. The investigator said Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover decongestive 
lymphatic therapy and whilst the treatment is recommended for Mrs H and has proved 
beneficial, Exeter is entitled to rely on the terms of the policy. 
Mr H responded on Mrs Hs behalf. He didnt agree with the investigator. He said that 
Exeter didnt tell Mrs H that her policy didnt cover therapies and its definition of a 
treatment and a therapy is subjective. Mr H said that Exeter was wrong to reject Mrs Hs 
claim because it was a manipulative therapy, as her policy covers physiotherapy. He 
questions whether Exeter has shown that the relevant terms and conditions are the 
same as those in place when Mrs H first took out a policy. Mr H says that theres a 
reasonable expectation that serious medical conditions will be covered by private 
medical insurance unless they are specifically excluded.
The investigator considered what Mr H said and put it to Exeter. Exeter didnt change its 
position and the investigator didnt change his view. Mr H asked that an ombudsman 
consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr H, on Mrs Hs behalf, has strong feelings about 
this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through 
all this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that 
neither Mrs H nor Mr H will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the 
central issue in the case, that is, whether Exeter acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining 
Mrs Hs claim.
the relevant terms and conditions
Mrs Hs policy covers eligible treatment, subject to the policy terms and conditions. In 
relation to in-patient and day patient benefits, it covers hospital charges, specialist services 
and preadmission tests. In relation to out-patient benefits, it covers specialist consultations, 
diagnostic tests, and surgery. A specialist is defined as a person who is on the            
General Medical Councils specialist register (or overseas equivalent) and recognised by 
Exeter. 
The policy also says: 
In selecting the Low Cost Plan you acknowledge that [] the amount of benefit available for 
out-patient services and diagnostic tests is very restricted.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Exeter has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think that Exeter treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say that because:   
Mr H says that theres a reasonable expectation that policies cover serious medical 
conditions unless they are specifically excluded. Thats not in fact the case. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
Mrs Hs policy renewed each year. Each year was a separate agreement. Ive seen 
the renewal documentation Exeter says it sent to Mrs H before the April 2020 
renewal. Exeter says each year in advance of renewal, it sends Mrs H relevant 
documentation. Mr H says that Mrs H didnt receive that documentation. On 
balance, I think that Exeter sent Mrs H renewal documentation. Exeter isnt 
responsible for any deficiencies in the postal system. I think that Exeter provided 
sufficient information to enable Mrs H to decide whether the policy met her 
requirements. Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy. The therapy she 
requires isnt included in the cover. Its not an out-patient consultation with a doctor 
on the GMCs specialist register, a diagnostic test or out-patient surgery. 
Ive noted the comments about why it was better for Mrs H to have the therapy 
outside a hospital setting. The location at which the therapy was administered isnt 
the central issue here. Even if Mrs H had the therapy as an in-patient or            
day-patient, it wouldnt be covered by her policy. 
Exeter authorised the therapy in error. When it realised what had happened, it 
decided to pay for the sessions it had already authorised. Mr H says that it should 
have told him about the error. I dont think that would have altered the outcome 
here. I think Exeter acted fairly in honouring the therapy it had authorised 
incorrectly. Mrs H had the benefit of Exeters error. And, at that stage, Exeter didnt 
know that Mrs H would make a further claim for the same therapy. I dont think that 
Exeter was at fault in failing to explain its error when it first became aware of it. 
Ive noted the correspondence from Mrs Hs consultant. Its not in dispute that    
Mrs Hs consultant prescribed decongestive lymphatic therapy and that its been 
beneficial. But that doesnt mean that its covered by her policy. 
Considering everything, I think that Exeter was entitled to rely on the terms of     
Mrs Hs policy. There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Exeter to authorise 
further treatment thats not covered by her policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman