Complaint
Miss L complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. Miss L says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial 
problems.
Background
We now know that Miss L took out 4 loans from MYJAR between August 2017 and April 
2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Ls borrowing with MYJAR, based on the information 
it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
MYJAR has offered to pay back the interest and charges in relation to loan number 4, so Im 
not going to make any decision about loan number 4 here. I should stress though that 
MYJAR's offer means Miss L will still owe the 'principle' amount for loan 4 (or the part that's 
outstanding). 
This decision therefore only relates to loan numbers 1  3. One of our adjudicators looked 
into this aspect of the complaint, but Miss L doesnt agree with what they said. She asked for 
it to come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Miss Ls 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss L could repay the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship for example, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the 
fact that MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-1601879the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Miss Ls complaint.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss L. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history to 
her with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at 
some point, MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
I think the financial checks which MYJAR most likely carried out in this case would have 
been quite basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the 
lending relationship, they also appear to have been proportionate for loan numbers 1 - 3. I 
think the levels of likely checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided 
by Miss L herself, would have made these particular loans appear affordable for her. 
I accept that Miss L could have already been experiencing challenges in managing her 
money at that point, but I havent been shown anything that demonstrates she wouldnt have 
been able to sustainably pay for loans 1  3. Ive also taken into account what Miss L says 
about paying off one loan in error and then having to replace this with another. However, I 
dont think I can reasonably hold MYJAR accountable for that and in this sector of lending it 
isnt that unusual for borrowers to apply for a loan upon finishing paying for an original one
So I think it was reasonable in this case for MYJAR to have relied on the information it most 
likely had at the time to decide whether to lend to Miss L and this was provided by Miss L 
herself. Im afraid that means Im not upholding her complaint about loans 1  3 and for loan 
4, I think MYJARs offer is a reasonable one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 3. I dont direct 
MYJAR Limited to pay Miss L any compensation in respect of these. I think the offer in 
respect of loan 4 is a reasonable one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
 
Appendix
 
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount
1 25/08/2017 25/12/2017 £600
2 25/12/2017 25/04/2018 £7003 30/04/2018 25/12/2018 £1,000
4 23/04/2019 Outstanding £350
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman