DRN-2339248
Complaint
Mrs W has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Mrs W bought the policy in November 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of Mrs Ws outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
15% of that balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs W 
returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs W that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent 
before it added PPI to her account. Mrs W seems to accept that she took the cover. And 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ws application form, which shows she selected the PPI. 
Mrs W signed the agreement confirming the information recorded on it was correct, so I think 
Mrs W knew she had a choice about taking PPI and that she chose to take it at the time.
Both parties agree that AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mrs W. That means AXA didnt have 
to check the policy was right for her. But it did need to give her enough information about the 
PPI, so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mrs W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances, it looks like 
the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better information would have 
stopped her buying it.
Mrs W says she was entitled to six months full sick pay from her employer and that she 
would have received redundancy pay if she lost her job. She also says her employer 
provided private health insurance, life and critical illness cover, which is why she thinks the 
policy was mis-sold to her. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs W has said, but the policy would have paid out on 
top of her sick pay entitlement and potentially for longer. Life and critical illness cover dont 
provide the same protection as PPI and Mrs W would not have been able to rely on either 
cover if she lost her job or was too unwell to work  unless she was critically ill.
Our adjudicator asked Mrs W for more information about the private health insurance she 
mentioned, because this type of cover can be like PPI. But Mrs W explained that it would 
cover any treatment she needed for healthcare or hospitalisation. This sounds more like a 
private medical insurance policy, which would not make her credit card repayments for her if 
she was out of work. So, Ive considered Mrs Ws sick pay entitlement and the other policies 
she told us about, and I still think Mrs W could have found the PPI useful if she fell on hard 
times. 
So, I dont think better information would have changed Mrs Ws decision to take the policy 
and I dont think AXA mis-sold it to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman