DRN-3658744
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc mis-sold it a 
business interruption insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs G, who are directors of O, bring the complaint on Os behalf. 
What happened
O has held a commercial insurance policy with AXA since around 2013. In 2016 O says that 
it asked AXA to upgrade its policy to include business interruption insurance cover, which 
was then added to the policy.
In 2020 O made a claim after its business was impacted by the Governments restrictions in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
AXA said its policy covered business interruption due to the occurrence of any of a named 
list of human infectious or human contagious diseases manifested by any person whilst in 
the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The named diseases did not include Covid-19 
and AXA turned down the claim. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, O brought its complaint to our service. O said that it 
disagreed with the outcome of the claim and that AXA had mis-sold the business interruption 
insurance.
We looked at the complaints about the claim and the mis-sale separately. Our Investigator 
explained why she did not uphold the complaint about the claim, and as O did not respond 
our claim complaint file was closed. 
In its final response to the mis-sale complaint AXA said that through its direct commercial 
sales business it had only ever offered business interruption insurance on a named disease 
basis. As the policy was sold before 2015 it did not have records to establish what was 
discussed at the time the policy was sold. But it had sent copies of the policy schedule each 
year for O to review to check it was suitable for its needs. The schedule included the 
endorsement showing the business interruption cover was on a named disease only basis. 
O did not accept AXAs position and maintained the policy had been mis-sold. O said that it 
had asked to upgrade the policy to cover everything no matter the costs involved. O sent 
us a screenshot of AXAs email to him which says This is the policy booklet that explains 
business interuption (sic) cover page 19. O says that this shows that AXA had sent only the 
policy document, which had a wider level of disease cover. O said AXA had not sent the 
schedule at the same time and had not pointed out that the cover was different from that 
stated in the policy. O said the named disease only policy did not meet its business needs. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but did not uphold it. She did not consider the 
policy had been mis-sold. O didnt agree and requested an Ombudsmans review. 
Developments
I made an initial review of the complaint. I asked both parties for additional information. 
I asked AXA for its comments on the specific complaint that O had made about the business 
interruption insurance upgrade and for relevant renewal documents. I shared AXAs 
response with Mr G. 
I asked Mr G to explain why it would have made a difference to him had he known, at the 
point of sale, that the business interruption disease cover for O had been confined to named 
diseases. I also asked him for any comments he had on the information provided by AXA. 
Mr G was unhappy as he thought we were investigating him rather than AXA. He questioned 
why he would choose restricted cover for O rather than insurance that would cover all 
eventualities. He explained why the dates AXA had given for the policy upgrade seemed 
incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is confined to Os mis-sale complaint. I do not make any findings on AXAs 
decision to turn down Os claim.
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Os business. However, I am not going to uphold its mis-sale complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, AXA had to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice, as well as a general duty to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. Im going to focus on the sale of the business interruption insurance 
extension to the policy, as that is the basis of this complaint. 
There is no dispute that O wanted business interruption insurance and that AXA did include 
this cover in the policy. The evidence provided by O is that AXA sent it a copy of its policy 
document and referred O to a specific page which set out the business interruption 
insurance.
The business interruption insurance extension of the policy shows cover that is wider than 
that shown in the policy schedule, in that it includes cover for any human infectious or 
human contagious disease except AIDS. The cover was not restricted to named diseases. 
AXA says that through its direct commercial sales business, it provided cover only on a 
named disease basis. So, AXA wouldnt have offered a more comprehensive level of cover. 
The policy document clearly says that it should be read in conjunction with the schedule of 
cover. The schedule of cover issued each year after the policy was upgraded also clearly 
states that the disease cover is restricted to a list of named diseases. 
I can see Os point that AXA did not, on the evidence O has provided, explain that the policy 
cover was restricted to named diseases only. But I do think that the policy renewal and 
attached schedule each year made it clear that the Murder Suicide or Disease extension in 
the policy was replaced by wording in the policy schedule, which showed the cover was 
restricted to the listed named diseases. O has pointed out that the dates recently given by AXA for the policy upgrade dont appear 
to match the information given in the renewal. Due to his personal circumstances Mr G has 
not found his own insurance documents. But I do not need any more information to decide 
this complaint because I accept Mr Gs evidence that the upgrade for the business 
interruption insurance happened on the date he said it did in 2016.
Even if AXA had sent O more specific information in 2016, to uphold this complaint I would 
need to see it was more likely than not, on the balance of probabilities, that O would have 
done something differently. This is why I asked Mr G for more information about why disease 
cover was important for his business. 
Different policies cover different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade me that AXA 
provided O with a policy that wasnt consistent with its demands and needs. I cant see that a 
wider cover for diseases was something which was particularly relevant to O at the time the 
policy was upgraded to include business interruption cover. Its not clear to me that Mr G 
would have acted differently even if AXA had provided O with more information at the point 
of the upgrade of the policy. 
While Os policy did not provide cover for the circumstances of the claim, I cant reasonably 
expect AXA to have anticipated in 2016 that O would require wider cover for a national 
pandemic from an unknown disease. 
I appreciate that Mr G has said he was busy running the business, but I think he did have the 
opportunity to review and raise with AXA any concern that the policy did not meet 
Os demands and needs in the years that followed. I think AXA provided a policy that was 
consistent with Os demands and needs, and I dont think it mis-sold the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman