DRN-4087132
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have recorded a claim 
after she contacted them to make an enquiry about her home emergency cover.
What happened
Miss T had a home insurance policy with RSA which also provided home emergency cover.
In January 2021 Miss T had a loss of hot water from her shower, so she contacted RSAs 
home emergency agent to see if the situation was covered. After asking some questions, 
RSAs agent said this wasnt covered by her policy.
In 2022 Miss T was searching for alternative home insurance cover with other providers. 
During this search, a different insurer identified a claim logged against Miss Ts previous 
policy in relation to the home emergency incident that she contacted RSA about.
Miss T complained to RSA that they had recorded the enquiry she made as a claim on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). She says she wasnt made aware of this, and 
she doesnt think this is fair as itll impact on future insurance policies shes able to obtain.
RSA said they were obliged to record any incidents which occurred, and as the claim was 
declined, thats how theyve recorded it, along with the £21 supplier costs they incurred in 
assessing and declining the claim.
Miss T remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said RSA had 
acted fairly by recording the declined claim as this is what had happened, along with the 
costs RSA had incurred. So, he didnt recommend RSA do anything further.
Miss T didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Insurers signed up to CUE are required to make accurate records of claims, incidents or 
losses which occur, whether a claim is paid or not. And they also need to accurately record 
any costs they have incurred.
Here, RSA has recorded a claim and that it was rejected. Along with the supplier fee they 
incurred in assessing and rejecting the claim. As this is accurate for what happened, I dont 
think RSA have acted unfairly in the circumstances.
Miss T is unhappy this being recorded may impact on future insurance policies with other 
providers. 
Insurers across the market will ask different questions about a potential policyholders 
insurance history to determine whether the risk is acceptable to them. And each insurer will 
assess this differently depending on how they view previous events or losses, what they 
were for, and how much costs the previous insurer incurred. 
Some insurers may only ask about, and take into account, claims that have been paid, 
whereas some insurers will ask much broader questions such as any incidents, losses, 
claims or events, whether claimed for or not. And how they consider this will vary from 
insurer to insurer.
As RSA has accurately recorded what happened, and the costs they incurred, I dont think 
theyve acted unfairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman