DRN-3684248
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited delayed surrendering his life policy. Hes said this led 
to him paying excess premiums.
What happened
Mr B had a life and critical illness policy with ReAssure. In November 2020, Mr B called 
ReAssure and asked to surrender the policy. ReAssure sent Mr B the surrender forms and 
instructions on 23 November 2020.
Mr B complains as the policy wasnt surrendered until 15 July 2021 and premiums continued 
to be taken during this time. ReAssure accepted there was a delay and offered £200 
compensation, which was later increased to £300.
Our Investigator upheld this complaint. He initially felt the premiums Mr B paid from the date 
he asked for the policy to be surrendered should be refunded plus interest, as well as any 
difference in surrender value. He felt the compensation for trouble and upset was fair.
ReAssure responded to say it disagreed. It said the premiums that it took before the policy 
was surrendered formed part of the surrender value that was eventually paid to Mr B, so he 
hasnt lost out as hes had the benefit of the insurance during that time. ReAssure felt that to 
refund him the premiums during the delay would be betterment. 
Our Investigator has since explained that he felt Mr B didnt want the policy after hed asked 
for surrender so didnt think the fact the policy provided him cover during the delay meant he 
shouldnt receive any premiums back. But the Investigator acknowledged Mr B didnt 
complete the necessary surrender forms until March 2021. He recommended ReAssure 
does the following:
- £300 compensation offered for the trouble and upset;
- Refunds the surrender value as of the date the valid forms were received and 
refunds the premiums taken after this point; and
- Deduct the surrender value already paid to Mr B from the total refund above. Pay 
interest at 8% simple on the remaining amount.
Mr B agreed with the Investigators view. ReAssure didnt respond so its been passed to me 
to reach a decision. Our Investigator has now confirmed that the surrender value date for the 
purposes of redress should be 23 March 2021  the date on which ReAssure confirmed Mr 
Bs address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. I think ReAssures delays may have caused Mr 
B to lose out and it should pay any loss the delay has caused. Ill explain below.
I can see Mr B wanted to surrender his policy in November 2020 and ReAssure sent him the 
relevant forms. But looking at the evidence, Mr B didnt actually complete the forms for the 
surrender until 8 March 2021 and I can see these were received by ReAssure on 18 March 
2021. So the delay between November and March wasnt caused by ReAssure.
ReAssure called Mr B to check his address on 23 March 2021 and it was confirmed that the 
address he had on his bank statement that he sent was the correct one. From what I can 
see, Mr B had sent in everything he needed to by 8 March 2021 and this was all received by 
18 March 2021. I cant see any reason for his surrender to not have been processed after 
the call on 23 March to confirm Mr Bs address. However, it wasnt actually processed until 
some months later in July 2021.
ReAssure has accepted there was a delay, and I think the compensation it has offered for 
the trouble and upset this delay caused Mr B is fair and reasonable. Its clear Mr B wanted to 
surrender and had to spend considerable time chasing for this, as well has experience the 
impact of seeing his premiums be deducted when he no longer wanted the policy in place. 
So, ReAsssure should pay him the £300 it has offered for this.
In addition to this, Mr B has had to pay premiums for longer than he wanted to. I 
acknowledge ReAssures argument that premiums contribute to the units that will in turn 
affect his surrender value, and that hes had the benefit of some cover during this time. But 
Mr B clearly didnt want the cover anymore and was happy to accept that he wouldnt be 
able to make a claim. I dont think its fair that he had to continue paying premiums whilst he 
clearly no longer wanted cover in place and I think this may have caused him some loss. I do 
accept that his premiums would purchase units which would affect his surrender value, but 
the redress method set out below takes account of this.
To put things right I think ReAssure needs to put him in the position hed be in if it had 
processed the surrender without the delay. I think the earliest opportunity it could do this 
would be on the date it confirmed Mr Bs address over the phone which is 23 March 2021. 
The following redress is fair and reasonable and puts Mr B in as close as possible to the 
position hed have been in but for ReAssures delays.
Putting things right
To put Mr B in the position hed be in if ReAssure hadnt delayed things it should do the 
following.
- Pay Mr B the value of D (representing the financial loss Mr B has been caused by 
ReAssures delays) from the following calculation:
oA = Surrender value as of 23 March 2021
oB = Value of premiums paid from 23 March 2021
oC = Actual surrender value Mr B received in July 2021.
oD = A + B  C
- ReAssure should add 8% simple interest* per annum on the value of D from 23 
March 2021 to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr B £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must follow the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman