DRN-4029667
The complaint
Ms B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on her home 
emergency insurance.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy (the insurer), so Ms Bs complaint is against Aviva. Ms 
B bought her policy through an intermediary. This intermediary administered the policy on 
Avivas behalf and most of Ms Bs correspondence has been with it, rather than Aviva. As 
Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the intermediarys actions, any reference to Aviva in 
my decision includes the intermediary.
What happened
Ms B had Aviva home emergency cover, bought in August 2021. In March 2022, she 
reported a boiler leak to Aviva. An engineer inspected the boiler and found it was beyond 
economical repair (BER) so needed to be replaced.
Avivas engineer said the new boiler couldnt be installed in the same place as her old one. 
This was because the old boiler was above a staircase and the engineer didnt think he 
could install the new boiler in the same place safely. He proposed installing the new boiler 
slightly to the side of where the old one was. 
Aviva sent Ms B a quote for replacing her boiler on or around 9 March 2022. Ms B didnt 
accept the quote and, with her local councils help, arranged for the work to be done herself. 
Ms Bs engineer installed a new boiler, in the same location as her old one, in June 2022. Ms 
B got a grant from her council to pay for this. 
Around the same time, Aviva cancelled Ms Bs policy. However, it took a premium payment 
from Ms B after this.
Ms B complained that Aviva had treated her unfairly. She said, in summary:
Aviva refused to repair or replace her boiler, so she had to have the work done by 
somebody else.
She had to get a grant to pay for this. The grant is fully repayable if Ms B sells her 
home within five years.
Aviva refunded only £6.04 when her monthly premium was £7.
Aviva accepted that it took a premium payment after it cancelled Ms Bs policy. It apologised 
and refunded this. However, it said its policy terms allow its engineer to refuse to carry out 
repairs for safety reasons. It also said Ms Bs policy didnt offer a cash alternative when 
repair work was done privately.
Ms B was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She wants Aviva to 
refund her the cost of her new boiler, refund the correct amount and compensate her for the 
inconvenience she suffered while her central heating was broken.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva should be able to rely on the exclusion not to install Ms Bs new boiler due to 
safety concerns. He was satisfied Aviva had refunded the premium it wrongly took from Ms 
B.
Ms B disagreed with this, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 February 2023. I said:
I dont think Aviva has acted fairly so I intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Ive looked at Avivas decision that Ms Bs boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). Its 
letter to Ms B on 9 March 2022 said the cost of replacement parts was £1,436.43. It told Ms 
B this was more than 85% of the value of the boiler, so the boiler was BER. Thats in line 
with the terms of Ms Bs home emergency policy.
An online search tells me the current retail price for this type of boiler is between £800 and 
£1,000. That means the cost of repairing Ms Bs boiler was more than the cost of replacing 
it. So Im satisfied Avivas decision that it wasnt economical to repair the boiler was 
reasonable.
There are two more policy terms that are relevant here.
First, the policy sets out what Aviva will do if the boiler is BER: If the boiler is over 7 years of 
age we will source, replace and install a new boiler, but you will be required to pay for the 
installation costs. Ms B told us her existing boiler was installed in 2008. That means her 
boiler was more than seven years old, so Im satisfied Ms B had to pay the cost of installing 
her new boiler.
Second, Ms Bs policy booklet says Aviva wont be liable for repairs which put the health 
and safety of our engineers at risk (General Exclusions, paragraph g). Aviva said its 
engineer wouldnt be able to replace the boiler safely because of where it was located so it 
had to be relocated. 
I agree that Avivas engineer should be able to decide whats safe and what isnt. His March 
2022 report said the new boiler would have to be relocated to the left of its current position 
so it is not above the staircase. I see from the photos in the report that Ms Bs boiler was 
directly above the staircase, so I can understand why the engineer thought it was unsafe to 
install the new boiler in the same place.
However, Aviva later told Ms B: I do not dispute a boiler can be installed in the same 
location by another company or private installer. Ms Bs engineer was able to do this. I think 
thats an important point which Ill come back to.
Avivas quote for installing the new boiler was £2,370, including a £879 discount. It looks like 
the discount is the cost of the new boiler, deducted because the cost of the new boiler was 
covered by Ms Bs policy. Ms B was unhappy with this quote for two reasons:
1. Aviva told her the replacement parts were £1,436.43. It quoted her £2,370 for a new 
boiler plus installation. Ms Bs cover was up to £4,000 so she didnt understand why 
her policy didnt cover the repairs.
2. The quote included relocating the boiler. Looking at the breakdown of the quote, the 
extra cost associated with relocating the boiler was about £1,000.Aviva told us: We advised that in line with the terms and conditions, a replacement boiler 
could be provided free of charge if [Ms B] paid the installation costs. Based on the 
documents Aviva sent us, I dont think it did. 
Ive looked at the communications between Aviva and Ms B. It wrote to her on 9 March 2022 
to say her boiler was BER and needed to be replaced. It sent her its quote for repairs on or 
around the same date. But I cant see that Aviva ever told Ms B why she had to pay for these 
repairs. It isnt explained in any of Avivas letters or recorded in any notes of its phone calls 
with Ms B. So I can understand why Ms B was unhappy. She believed the repairs were 
covered by her insurance but instead was told she had to pay £2,370.
Also, Im not sure it was fair for Aviva to insist that the boiler had to be moved. This was 
going to cost Ms B an extra £1,000 on top of the standard installation cost. Given Avivas 
engineer wouldnt install the new boiler in the same place  and Aviva accepted that other 
engineers could have been done this  I think it would have been reasonable for Aviva to let 
Ms B see if another engineer was prepared to fit the new boiler. 
So I think Ms Bs decision to go to her local council for help was understandable. The council 
helped her find an engineer to replace the boiler and gave her a grant of £2,453 to pay for 
this.
Im satisfied that Ms Bs policy terms meant she had to pay for the installation of her new 
boiler. However, Aviva was liable for the cost of the new boiler. I dont think it explained this 
to Ms B clearly enough. And I dont think it was fair to tell Ms B she had to move the boiler. 
The result was that Ms B paid for both a new boiler and its installation. I dont think its fair 
that Ms B should be liable for the cost of her new boiler.
Ms B has shown that the cost of her new boiler plus installation was £2,400. Thats 
comparable to Avivas quote for the boiler plus installation, without the additional relocation 
costs. A condition of the grant is that its fully repayable if Ms B sells her home within five 
years. I think its difficult for any of us to be sure whats going to happen in the future. Im 
conscious that someones personal circumstances can change very quickly. So I dont think I 
can reasonably expect Ms B to be sure whether or not shell sell her home in the next four 
and a half years. In the meantime, the thought that shell have to repay her council £2,400 if 
she sells her home is clearly a huge worry for her. I understand that this is causing her a 
great deal of stress.
To remove that stress, Im going to ask Aviva to pay Ms B the cost of the new boiler. I accept 
that Avivas policy terms say it doesnt offer cash alternatives. I also accept that Ms B might 
not have to repay the grant. However, given the circumstances in this case, I think this is the 
fairest way of settling Ms Bs claim.
It would be helpful if Ms B can provide something to show how much her new boiler cost, not 
including installation. Otherwise, I think the £879 discount in Avivas March 2022 quote 
would have been the cost of a new Aviva boiler. Id like Aviva to confirm this when it replies 
to this provisional decision. If it wasnt, Id like Aviva to tell me what this discount was for and 
what the replacement boiler would have cost. 
Ms B also complained about the premium taken after her policy was cancelled. She sent us 
a payment schedule dated 19 August 2021 that shows her annual premium was £84 and 
monthly payments were £7. However, Avivas letter to Ms B dated 14 March 2022 said her 
payments would be £6.04 per month from April to August 2022. Aviva told us it took a 
payment of £6.04 after it cancelled Ms Bs policy and thats what it refunded. 
Id like to resolve that in my final decision. Id like Ms B to send us a screenshot or photo of her April and/or May 2022 bank statements showing her premium payment(s) to Aviva so I 
can check Aviva refunded the correct amount. If she cant, Im not going to be able to make 
a finding on this point.
Finally, Ms B is unhappy she was without heating/hot water from March 2022 until her new 
boiler was installed in June 2022. She wants Aviva to compensate her for this. However, I 
dont think this delay was Avivas fault. The delay was mainly because Ms B had to apply for 
a council grant to pay for her new boiler. If Aviva had explained the situation clearly, Ms B 
would still have had to pay for installation of her new boiler. And even if the new boiler was 
installed in the same place as her old one, shed have had to pay over £1,000. So I think its 
likely shed still have had to apply for a grant to pay for this. I also think its likely the 
application process would have taken roughly the same time. That means I dont think Ms B 
could have had her new boiler installed before June 2022, when her grant was approved.
So I dont think Aviva was responsible for the delay in Ms B having her new boiler installed. It 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Aviva to compensate Ms B for this. 
However, I think Avivas communications with Ms B were unclear and confusing and this 
caused her some distress. As Ive noted, I dont think it explained clearly why her policy 
didnt cover the whole cost of repairs. I also think cancelling the policy was confusing and led 
Ms B to believe Aviva wasnt prepared to pay any of the replacement costs. I think Aviva 
should pay Ms B £100 for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B didnt tell us if she agreed with my provisional decision. She sent us copies of bank 
statements and another copy of the grant approval letter from her local council. She didnt 
send us anything that showed the cost of her new boiler, but said she thought it was better 
than the one Aviva had offered her. 
Aviva also didnt say if it agreed with my provisional decision, but its response suggests not. 
It provided a recording of its phone call with Ms B on 7 March 2022. It says this shows it told 
Ms B her boiler was BER and explained her entitlements under her policy. 
Aviva also explained the costs it would have incurred if it had replaced Ms Bs boiler, as well 
as the discount in its 9 March 2022 quote. In summary, the discount was based on the value 
of the boiler  not the cost to Aviva  so the £879 discount was the value of the replacement 
boiler to Ms B (without any upgrade).  
Finally, Aviva provided a screenshot showing it took £6.04 from Ms B by direct debit on 1 
April 2022 and refunded this amount on 20 May 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
Ive listened to the 7 March 2022 call. In that call, Avivas agent explained that, because Ms 
Bs old boiler was BER and over seven years old, under the policy terms Ms B would have to 
pay for installation of the new boiler. The subsequent conversation suggests Ms B 
understood this. She asked how much a new boiler would be and if she could get her own 
quote for installation. The agent couldnt answer these questions and transferred Ms B to another team. Avivas call recording cuts out at this point so Ive not been able to listen to Ms 
Bs discussion with the specialist installation team.
Based on this call, Im satisfied that Aviva told Ms B she was eligible for a replacement boiler 
but would be liable for the installation costs. 
However, I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was fair for Aviva to insist that 
the new boiler had to be relocated. This was going to cost Ms B an extra £1,000 on top of 
the standard installation cost. Given Aviva accepted that other engineers could have 
installed a boiler in the same place, I thought it would have been reasonable for Aviva to let 
Ms B see if another engineer could do this. 
Aviva didnt comment on these points. It didnt provide the second part of the 7 March call or 
any other calls where moving the boiler was discussed. So I still think it was unfair for Aviva 
to insist the boiler had to be relocated and, when Ms B didnt agree, not provide the 
replacement. I think it should pay the cost of Ms Bs new boiler.
Ms B hasnt been able to show the explicit cost of the new boiler. However, she said she 
thought it was better than the boiler Aviva offered. Avivas explanation of the cost/value of 
the new boiler and the discount in its 9 March 2022 quote was helpful. This confirms the 
value of the new boiler it would have installed was £879. Ms B would have had to pay for 
any upgrade on this. In the circumstances, I think Aviva should refund Ms B £879.
While I agree that Aviva told Ms B she was liable for installation costs, I think its overall 
communication was poor. I found no evidence that Aviva explained to Ms B why the boiler 
had to be moved or why it wouldnt allow Ms B to get her own engineer to install it. Also, I 
think cancelling the policy while it was handling Ms Bs claim was confusing. I see no reason 
to change my £100 award for the distress this caused her.
Finally, the premium refund. Ms Bs bank statement shows a payment to Aviva on 4 April 
2022 of £6.04 and a refund of the same amount on 23 May 2022. This matches Avivas 
records. Thats because Ms Bs premium reduced from £7 to £6.04 in April 2022, as set out 
in Avivas 14 March 2022 letter. Im satisfied Aviva refunded the correct amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Refund Ms B £879 to reflect the cost of her new boiler.
Pay Ms B £100 to reflect the distress its poor communication caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman