DRN-1569856
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1989 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr B and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley 
Building Society mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B took out a joint PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover to both. 
They complain they were told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They produced a legal 
document from Bradford & Bingley which confirmed they had to take joint life assurance 
cover as a condition of the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley should have made Mr B and Mrs B aware they had a choice in buying 
the policy. They said they were told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. Bradford 
& Bingley said the policy was optional and was never a condition of the mortgage.
Bradford & Bingley produced the mortgage application and the copy documents which Mr B 
and Mrs B received after the PPI sale. I have looked at them all very carefully. The 
paperwork does show that PPI was described as an optional product and I think this 
probably was made clear to Mr B and Mrs B on the mortgage application form. 
Mr B and Mrs B have produced a copy legal document which shows that life assurance 
cover was a condition of the mortgage  but it does not show that PPI was compulsory. So 
overall, I think its more likely Bradford & Bingley made it clear to Mr B and Mrs B they had a 
choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it although I can understand why they may not 
remember this now.
Bradford & Bingley says the sale was non-advised so Bradford & Bingley had to give them 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading form them to make an informed 
decision. 
I noted Mr B and Mrs B split the PPI cover in unequal shares between them  presumably to 
reflect their incomes. They also said they would get some sick pay from their employers and 
had some savings. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. This would have been alongside the employee benefits and would have also covered them if they 
were made redundant. So having the policy would have meant a share of the mortgage 
repayment could be covered for a length of time if either of them was unable to work.
I can see that Mr B and Mrs B borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if either was unable to work would have been 
important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave 
Mr B and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But having decided they 
chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons 
Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them so I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put them off from taking out the cover. And overall I dont think they lost 
out by anything Bradford & Bingley might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr B and Mrs B. But Ive thought 
very carefully about what they said. I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman