DRN-1813497
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car supplied with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
isnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2017 Mr R was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered around 34,000 
miles.
Mr R is unhappy because hes had to replace 3 alloy wheels on the car, one in February 
2018 and two in late 2019. Hes also had to replace the tyres.
Mr R believes that this is a known problem with the model of car. Hes noticed that the car 
had two previous owners and hadnt covered much mileage when it was supplied to him, 
and suspects that the issue with the wheels is why the previous owners returned the car.
When Mr R complained to BMWFS, it said the first wheel replacement had been carried out 
after 6 months from the point of supply. It said there was no evidence of a fault at the point of 
supply and that the damage had more likely been caused by road conditions and general 
use.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants 
reimbursement of the cost of the wheels, wheel alignment and tyres which he says is around 
£4000.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that there was a fault at the point of supply.
Mr R didnt agree. He didnt accept the reasons BMWFS had given as the cause of the fault 
and said hed had a similar car previously which had no problem despite covering higher 
mileage. He also said hed seen information online which made him think the wheel was a 
known manufacturing fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, theres an implied term that the goods are of satisfactory quality. To be 
considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would expect, taking into account any description of the goods and all of the relevant 
circumstances. So, in a case involving a car, relevant circumstances might include things 
like the age and mileage of the car and the vehicles history.
I can understand Mr Rs frustration with having to replace the damaged wheels on the car. 
Hes said that one of the wheels has been replaced twice in a short space of time.
From what I can see, Mr R first replaced the wheel in February 2018, around 9 months after 
the point of supply.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault arises in the first 6 months, its presumed that the fault 
was present at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. After 6 months, 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present 
at the point of supply.
By the time Mr R replaced the first wheel, hed covered around 15,000 miles. Ive thought 
about the durability of the wheel and its ability to withstand day to day driving conditions. I 
appreciate Mr Rs disappointment at having to replace a wheel within the first few months of 
getting the car and again 2  years later. However, if the wheels hadnt been durable at the 
point of supply, I dont think Mr R would have been able to drive the car without issue for 
15,000 and 9 months. So, I dont think its likely that the problem with the wheels was as a 
result of the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I appreciate that Mr R has had to replace one of the wheels twice. The second wheel wasnt 
replaced until late 2019, so again, given the length of time elapsed since the point of supply 
and the mileage covered, I cant safely conclude that there was a fault at the point of supply.
I havent seen any information to persuade me that Mr Rs car was abnormally prone to 
wheel damage as a result of a point of supply fault. And whilst I have considered his 
comments about his previous car, I dont think this is sufficiently persuasive in the light of the 
other evidence and circumstances. 
Overall, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
There isnt enough evidence to show that there was a point of supply fault with the wheels. 
So, I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman