DRN-2886125
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has dealt with a conditional 
sale agreement under which a car was supplied to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr R under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that he 
signed in February 2014. He agreed to make a payment of £569 and then 47 monthly 
payments of £232.75 for the car to be supplied to him. Mr R didnt make all of the required 
payments to Moneybarn so it issued a termination notice in July 2014 and instructed a third 
party to collect the car from Mr R. 
Mr R contacted Moneybarn in August 2014 and agreed to clear the arrears on his account 
so the termination notice was withdrawn but Moneybarn charged £270 to his account for the 
collection that had been arranged. There were further payment issues so Moneybarn 
terminated the agreement in April 2015, the car was collected from Mr R and sold at auction. 
The sale proceeds of £3,750 were applied to Mr Rs account, leaving an outstanding amount 
that he owed it of £5,803.30. Moneybarn obtained a county court judgment against Mr R for 
that amount.
Moneybarn sent Mr R a letter in May 2019 in which it said that it had been working with the 
Financial Conduct Authority to look at how clear its communications about the different 
options available to customers to end their finance agreements were. It said that it could 
have done more to ensure that Mr R fully understood the options that were available to him - 
it apologised for that and said that it had reduced his outstanding balance from £5,803.30 to 
£2,694.38.
Mr R complained to Moneybarn about the way that it had dealt with his agreement but he 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Moneybarn was within its 
rights to start the recovery process in July 2014 and, as it had been charged by the third 
party for the collection, it was fair that that charge was passed to Mr R. He believed that it 
was fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to repossess the car in April 2015 and that it was 
more likely than not that the sale proceeds had been applied to Mr Rs account correctly. He 
said that Moneybarn hadnt updated the county court judgment when the outstanding 
amount was reduced to £2,694.38 and he recommended that Moneybarn should make a 
request to the court to change the outstanding amount on the judgment.
Mr R says that he made payments to Moneybarn, it shouldnt have terminated his account or 
recorded a county court judgment against him and that the car wouldve sold for more than 
£3,750. Moneybarn has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that the balance was correct at the time that the judgment was registered so it wont be 
amending it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
our investigator has described in detail the payments that Mr R made to Moneybarn 
and its clear from his account statement that he hadnt made all of the payments that 
were due under the conditional sale agreement;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Moneybarn acted 
incorrectly when it issued a termination notice to Mr R in July 2014 (which was then 
withdrawn when Mr R cleared the arrears on his account) or when it terminated his 
agreement and collected the car from him in April 2015;
Moneybarn had been charged by the third party for the collection that had been 
arranged in August 2014 so I dont consider that it was unfair or unreasonable for it to 
apply that charge to Mr Rs account;
the car was sold at auction and the statement of account shows that the disposal 
proceeds were £3,750  Mr R says that the car wouldve sold for more than that but 
hes provided no other evidence to show that the sale proceeds were more than 
£3,750 and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Moneybarn 
has incorrectly applied the disposal proceeds to his account;
Moneybarn obtained a county court judgment against Mr R for the outstanding 
balance of his account  which at that time was £5,803.30  but it has since reduced 
the outstanding balance of Mr Rs account to £2,694.38 as a result of the remediation 
program that it agreed with the Financial Conduct Authority;
although the amount of the judgment was correct at the time that it was obtained, I 
consider that its potentially misleading to leave it unchanged;
Im unable to require the court to change the judgment but I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to make an application to the court for it to reduce 
the amount of the judgment to £2,694.38; and
other than making that application, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Moneybarn to take any action in response to Mr Rs 
complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Moneybarn to make an 
application to the court for it to reduce the amount of the judgment that it obtained against 
Mr R to £2,694.38.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to 
make an application to the court for it to reduce the amount of the judgment that it obtained 
against Mr R to £2,694.38.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman