DRN-2565863
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle.
Mr S experienced a number of issues with the car. He says that within a few days the engine 
management light illuminated warning him to change the oil and have the car serviced.
In November 2019, due to a manufacturer recall, a repair was carried out to prevent 
incorrect oil dilution. 
Mr S continued to experience the oil light illuminating. He returned the car to the supplying 
dealer in January 2020. It changed the oil and carried out a reset  similar to what the 
manufacturer recall had done in November 2019.
A few weeks later the oil light came on again. A diagnostic report dated March 2020 showed 
there was a problem with the diesel particulate filter. Repairs were carried out, but Mr S 
continued to experience the same issues.
As well as being unhappy about this, Mr S says the car was mis-sold to him, as it was 
described in the advert by the dealership as having stop/start technology, but it doesnt have 
this function.
Mr S complained to Oodle. He said the issue with the car was affecting his work and he 
wanted to reject the car.
In response, Oodle said the issue with the service light illuminating wasnt an issue which 
rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr S was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the issue with the oil service light had been 
the subject of more than one attempt at repair. She also said she didnt think the car was 
durable because the DPF had failed before its normal life expectancy. The investigator 
thought it was more likely than not that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply an 
said Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It said that although the DPF had failed after 8000 miles, this couldve 
been due to Mr S not driving the car long enough for the regeneration to complete. It said 
that as a taxi driver Mr S was likely to do short journeys only. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for purpose, durability and safety.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one attempt to repair the fault. 
If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject it. After 6 months, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
In this case, Mr S first experienced an issue with the oil service light illuminating in 
November 2019, very soon after the point of supply. The issue was first addressed as part of 
a manufacturers recall, with the engine oil being replaced.
Mr S continued to experience issues with the oil service light illuminating. Ive seen 
information which shows that a diagnostic carried out in January 2020 identified an issue, 
and that the engine oil was replaced, and a software update carried out.
Based on what Ive seen, there have been two attempts at repairing the same issue within 
three months of the point of supply. The first repair  In November 2019  appears to have 
been unsuccessful. So, when the same issue arose in December 2019, I think Mr S 
shouldve been allowed to reject the car. 
Notwithstanding this, a second repair was attempted in January 2020. I understand that Mr S 
continued to experience the same issue with the oil service light, which suggest that the 
second attempt at repair was unsuccessful as well.
I can see that in March 202 a fault was found with the DPF. New parts were ordered, and 
repairs were completed in July 2020. Following the repair, Mr S reported issues with the oil 
service light again.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Oodle has treated Mr 
S fairly. I dont think it was reasonable for Oodle to reject Mr Ss complaint on the grounds 
that the service light wasnt something which rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. Its 
more likely, based on what Ive seen, that the oil service light was an indicator of a fault. Its 
clear that there was an issue with the oil in Mr Ss car because it was changed twice, once in 
November 2019 and again in January 2020. I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
to need to change the oil so regularly. It seems likely that there was an underlying fault with 
the car which was causing an issue with the oil. On balance, Im persuaded that the fault 
was present at the point of supply.
Ive also got concerns about the DPF. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
have to replace the DPF on a car which was less than a year old and which had covered 
around 8000 miles. I think a DPF ought reasonably to be expected to last much longer than 
this. This suggests that the car wasnt durable, because the DPF failed within the first 6 
months.
Ive taken into account what Oodle has said about the DPF and driving style. Theres no 
evidence to suggest that Mr S was driving the car in such a way as to prevent regeneration. 
Mr S has told this service that he drives the car on long journeys as least once a week.Ive also taken into account what Oodle has said about Mr S continuing to use the car. I 
agree that use if relevant to whether Mr s should receive a full refund of his monthly 
payments. But I dont think Mr Ss continued use of the car prevents a rejection now. I can 
see that Mr s asked to reject the car some time ago. I dont think its reasonable for Oodle to 
suggest that Mr S shouldnt have used the car after it rejected his request to reject, 
especially as Mr S relies on the car for his work.
Putting things right
Ive already explained that because the first attempt at repair wasnt successful, I think Mr S 
should be allowed to reject the car at this point.
I think the failure of the DPF after so little mileage on a relatively new car also suggests that 
the car wasnt durable, and therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Under the relevant legislation, Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
I can see that Mr S has continued to use the car. So, I wont be asking Oodle to refund all of 
his monthly payments. But I think its fair to refund Mr S for the time he was unbale to use the 
car whilst it was being repaired, because hes told this service he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car. This equates to around a month, so one monthly payment.
Its cleat that the issues with the car have caused a degree of inconvenience to Mr S. Hes 
had to take the car back to the dealership more than once and hes explained that his work 
has been affected. I think Oodle should compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must: 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund any deposit paid together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund one monthly payment together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. January 2020 should be used as the reference 
point for this.
Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman