DRN-2696180
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service received from National Savings and Investments (NSI). He 
says there were problems with NSIs website and he received poor customer service from 
members of staff when he complained about it. Mr K wants NSI to pay £500 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.  
What happened
Mr K holds an income bond account with NSI and wanted to check whether the bank details 
linked to the income bond account were correct. He says the website didnt show his full 
bank details, so he called NSI and says he received poor customer service. Mr K raised his 
complaints in two calls and NSI responded and said they have a duty to protect information 
so customers wont be able to view their full bank details online. They said, customers can 
call them to confirm these details. Mr K called NSI as he felt they hadnt addressed his 
complaint so NSI sent a further response in which they described why Mr K wasnt able to 
change his nominated bank account. NSI apologised for the service Mr K received during a 
phone call on 27 July and arranged for a payment of £35 to be paid to Mr Ks bank account.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought the £35 offered by NSI was fair and 
wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think NSIs offer is a fair way to resolve matters so I dont uphold this 
complaint. I understand Mr K will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
NSIs website 
I can see the issues started when Mr K wanted to check and confirm he had entered the 
correct bank details to ensure any interest was paid into his bank account. He accessed his 
account through NSIs website but found the system didnt display his full bank details, in 
particular, the sort code and account number. I can see Mr K has provided screenshots 
which show what information hes able to view on the website  and this shows hes able to 
see the name of the nominated account and only a partial account number. Mr K also holds 
a premium bond account with NSI. So, as well as wanting to verify he had entered the 
correct bank details for the income bond account, he also wanted to check whether he 
needed a Roll Number for the nominated account linked to his premium bond account. And, 
the website didnt allow him to view the full details of his nominated accounts. 
Theres no dispute here that NSIs website didnt allow Mr K to view the full details of his 
nominated account. NSI say they appreciate that its inconvenient not to be able to view this, 
but they have a duty to safeguard all investments. And, they do this by protecting 
confidential information. I do understand why the lack of account information caused Mr K 
frustration given that all he wanted to do was just check he had entered the correct details. I 
cant however say theres been an error here by NSI. This is how their system is designed to 
work in order to protect customer information. While I can see why customers might find it 
helpful to view the full account information, we dont have the power to tell a business to 
change their systems. We can look at the service provided and whether theres been an 
error. And, from the information Ive seen, I cant say there has as Mr K was shown the 
information which the system allows him to see.   
Mr K says NSIs website isnt user friendly and doesnt explain what to do in certain sections. 
I can see Mr K refers to other online accounts he holds which do allow him to view all 
account information. Different businesses will operate different processes  thats not to say 
one is right and another is wrong. I dont think its unreasonable for NSI to restrict the level of 
information a customer can view for security reasons, but as mentioned above, we cant tell 
a business how to operate such processes.  
I understand Mr K feels NSIs system doesnt actually do what the information on the website 
suggests it will do. He says theres an option which shows he can view and edit details when 
this isnt actually the case. Ive looked at the screenshots provided by Mr K and can see it 
does show some information. It shows the correct nominated account, which suggests the 
sort code is correct, but it only shows part of the account number. So, Mr K was able to view 
some information, but not the full details. As mentioned above, NSI have their reasons for 
limiting the information shown. And, while I dont think their reasons are unfair, we dont have 
the power to tell them to change their processes. 
NSI do say there are alternative ways of finding out the information which Mr K wanted. One 
way is to call them, and I can see this is what Mr K does in this case. 
First phone call
NSI accept they got things wrong when Mr K first called them in July. They apologise for the 
service received. Ive listened to this call and note Mr K explains the problem hes having 
when trying to view account information on the website. He says the main issue is that the 
NSI system doesnt perform the functions which the information on the website suggests it 
can. There are occasions during the call where Mr K has to repeat his main concern and its 
clear towards the end of the call Mr K becomes frustrated at the length of time hes having to 
spend on the call. So, I think its right that NSI should compensate Mr K for the frustration 
and inconvenience caused and I think £35 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
I do feel however that Mr K does get some benefit from the call as, one of the reasons for his 
call, is to get confirmation that the correct nominated account is linked to his income bond 
account. Mr K confirms his account details for his nominated account and the call handler 
confirms these are the details they have on their system for both the premium bond and 
income bond accounts. The uncertainty Mr K was left with after trying to view his nominated 
account details on the website was one of the reasons which led to him calling NSI. And, the 
information Mr K was after in this regard was confirmed to him by the call handler.  
  
Second phone call
During this call, the call handler agrees the information on the website isnt fully clear. And, 
she accepts the information does suggest the system has certain functions which arent in 
line with what the website allows a customer to do. 
The call handler explains she cant change the process but agrees with Mr K to provide 
feedback so the website and system can be looked into. The call handler confirms the same 
nominated account is linked to both the premium bond account and the income bond account. The call handler also confirms a Roll Number isnt required. Mr K asks for his 
complaint to continue and the call handler explains NSI will write to him. 
Mr K complains about the customer service he received in this call. I dont think there has 
been any error in this call. The call handler discusses Mr Ks concerns about the website and 
system and offers a solution in the form of feedback to the team who can look into this. The 
call handler also provides confirmation of the nominated account linked to both NSI accounts 
and also confirms Mr K doesnt require a Roll Number. So, I think this call addresses Mr Ks 
main concerns and NSI take reasonable steps to take forward the issue involving the 
website.      
Complaint handling 
I can see NSI respond to Mr Ks complaint. And, following a call during which Mr K explains 
all of his complaints havent been addressed, a second complaint response is sent. I note Mr 
K says, the complaint responses dont address all of his complaints and the complaint 
handler didnt return Mr Ks call after he said he would do so immediately.   
Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in 
line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we 
can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. 
In this case, I cant say the issues which Mr K raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.      
Call waiting 
Mr K complains about the waiting time to get through to NSI. I can see they have apologised 
for any delay Mr K experienced when calling them but explain this is due to having smaller 
teams as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. NSI say they were following public health 
guidance while looking after the health of their staff. They accept this has had an impact on 
their normal timescales with answering customer queries. I cant say theres been an error 
by NSI here as they, similar to lots of other businesses, have had to adjust to different ways 
of working through the Covid-19 pandemic. And, while its unfortunate, and perhaps 
expected, this will have an impact on service levels, I cant say NSI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.  
     
In summary, I think the offer already made by NSI is reasonable in the circumstances. Mr K 
confirms he's received £35 so I wont be asking NSI to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman