DRN-2866918
The complaint
Miss R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejected a claim on her 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.  
What happened
In May 2019 there was an incident involving Miss Rs neighbour. Miss R says she spoke to 
the neighbour, asking why they had planted some plants on her area of land. The neighbour 
was hostile and became aggressive during the conversation to the extent that she had to be 
restrained by her son. Miss R removed the plants and says she called the police, though 
they didnt attend.
In July 2019 Miss R took out a new home insurance policy, which included this legal 
expenses cover.
There was a further incident with the neighbour in August 2019 and then a number of 
incidents from September onwards. Miss R complained to the neighbour and the neighbours 
landlord about their behaviour. The problems continued from October to December and 
Miss R contacted the police. The incidents included her neighbour gesturing and shouting at 
her, making comments about her to other neighbours and pulling up her plants.
 
Following further incidents in early 2020 Miss R made a claim on the policy in March. RSA 
declined the claim, saying the first incident had happened in May 2019, which was before 
the policy started, and the policy doesnt cover a dispute that started before the policy was 
taken out.
Miss R complained but RSA didnt change its decision. When she brought the complaint to 
this service, our investigator thought it should be upheld and asked RSA to consider the 
legal costs that Miss R had incurred, in line with the policy terms. RSA disagreed and 
requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
When she claimed on the policy, Miss R was also looking for cover for other issues related 
to her property, but she has confirmed the only issue she is pursuing in this complaint is in 
relation to the cover for the nuisance claim against her neighbour. So Ive only considered 
that claim.
Miss Rs policy includes cover for a legal nuisance, which is the claim Miss R wished to 
pursue. So it is potentially covered.
For any claim to be covered, the date of occurrence must be within the insurance period. 
So to be covered, Miss R must show the event that led to the claim happened during the 
policy. I think thats fair - the insurance is meant to cover uncertain risks, not inevitable or 
existing events.
Date of occurrence is defined as follows: 
For civil cases, this is the date of the event that leads to a claim. If more than one event 
arises at different times from the same cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first 
event. This may be before the date you first became aware of it.
The issue is whether the first event that led to this claim did happen before the policy started. 
RSA says the first event was the incident in May 2019, while Miss R says that was an 
isolated incident and the harassment didnt start until later.
The key point is what Miss R knew (or what she should reasonably have known) when she 
took out the policy in July 2019. If she knew there was something that could lead to a legal 
dispute (not necessarily that there would definitely be some legal action) then I would say 
the dispute was already in existence and RSA was right to reject the claim. If, however, she 
thought any pre-existing dispute had concluded and so the issue thats now arisen is a new 
problem, it wouldnt be fair to say the date of occurrence was before the policy started. .
I appreciate there was an incident in May 2019. But that seems to have been an isolated 
incident at the time. There was then a gap of some months without incident. When the 
further problems arose, there was clearly a series of incidents which followed close together. 
Its possible the neighbour was motivated by what had happened previously. But as far as 
Miss R was concerned, at the point when she took out the policy nothing had happened 
since that one, isolated incident in May. There was no ongoing series of events and she 
wasnt aware at that point that there was anything that might lead to a legal dispute. The 
issues that led to her claim only started later  as shown by the correspondence from her 
solicitors to her neighbour, which only mention the later incidents.
 
For these reasons I agree the date of occurrence was within the period of insurance.
Miss R says she has already incurred legal costs, and there may be more costs to be paid. 
Even if the date of occurrence is within the policy period, that doesnt necessarily mean the 
claim is covered and her costs should be paid. There are other terms and conditions that 
need to be considered. As RSA said the claim wasnt covered at all it didnt go on to 
consider those. So it should do so now.
If the claim meets the other requirements of the policy terms, RSA should provide cover for 
Miss Rs legal costs going forward (assuming the matter is still ongoing) in line with the 
policy terms  for example regarding the hourly rate to be paid. As for the costs already 
incurred, if the claim is covered then Miss R should not have had to pay her solicitors costs 
herself. I dont think it would be fair to leave her out of pocket if cover wasnt provided when 
it should have been. So RSA should reimburse any costs she has incurred at the rate 
charged by her solicitors. If the claim isnt covered, then Miss R would not have been entitled 
to cover for those costs and would have had to pay them herself in any event.
Replies to the provisional decision
Miss R accepted the provisional decision and had no further comments.
RSA doesnt accept the provisional decision. In brief, it says:
The initial incident was the planting on Miss Rs land, which would be regarded as a 
trespass. This happened around May 2019 and her policy began in July 2019, so this 
was before the policy started.The matter escalated at the time with the police being called. While nothing more 
happened until after the start of the policy, the issue wasnt resolved and started up 
again just a few months later.
The policy wording is very specific in the way it defines date of occurrence, and says 
if more than one event arises at different times from the same cause, the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first event. 
There has been a previous ombudsman decision that where different types of 
incidents were all caused by a neighbour and were to be dealt with in the same 
proceedings against the neighbour, these were a series related by "cause" - namely 
the neighbour. The same principle applies here. All the claims would be dealt with at 
the same time in the same proceedings, so the claim isnt covered as the first 
incident of trespass and harassment happened before the policy started.
Theres an emphasis in the provisional decision about harassment from the 
neighbour but the policy wording is clear that it only covers a "legal nuisance". 
Harassment is not automatically a nuisance or a trespass. And abuse is not a 
legal/private nuisance, so theres no cover for such incidents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA says the incidents were all related and, since the first incident happened before the 
policy started, that means its not covered. And it says the cause of all the incidents was the 
neighbour. I appreciate the incidents all involved Miss Rs neighbour but I dont think that 
necessarily means they all arose from the same cause. Each case has to be considered on 
its own individual circumstances. As I explained in the provisional decision, the key point for 
me is what the position was at the point when Miss R took out the policy.
If at that point she was aware of a dispute with the neighbour, which might lead to a legal 
dispute, then I agree this would be a pre-existing dispute. So it would not be covered under 
the policy terms. RSA says theres nothing to confirm the issue had resolved. But neither 
was it ongoing. Even if there hadnt been anything formally resolving the issue, at that point 
in time I dont think Miss R would have been aware there was an ongoing dispute. As far as 
she was concerned, there had been one incident and nothing further since.
RSA also makes the point that, if all the incidents were to be dealt with in the same 
proceedings then they were connected. In this case, the correspondence from Miss Rs 
solicitors concerned the later incidents  it didnt refer back to the incident in May. So that 
incident wouldnt seem to form part of the claim against the neighbour. 
Looking at the particular circumstances in this case it remains my view that, while there was 
an incident before the policy started, that was an isolated incident. In my judgment, when 
she took out the policy Miss R wasnt in dispute with her neighbour. There were 
subsequently various incidents, as set out in the solicitors correspondence, which were 
clearly related and which led her to take action. Those incidents were all after the policy was 
taken out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to:
reconsider the nuisance claim, on the basis the date of occurrence is within the policy 
period, in line with the remaining policy terms;if the claim is covered, pay any further costs in line with the policy terms and 
reimburse any costs Miss R has already incurred, together with simple interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date she paid those costs to the date payment is made 
to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman