DRN-2233498
The complaint
Mr W complains that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited (Pendragon) mis 
led him over insurance products linked to a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) for a car. He 
would like compensation  
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:-
Mr. W has received a pro rata refund of the insurance policies he believed were free 
but were actually paid for by the dealership discounting the price of the car. 
Pendragon paid the balance on the policies plus any interest that would have been 
paid over the term of the agreement. I am satisfied Mr. W hasnt incurred a financial 
loss. In effect he has received a cash discount on the price of the car.
Pendragon doesnt feel its fair to pay an additional £100 compensation. It feels the 
refund of insurance (£1,596.57) means Mr. W has benefited from a level of discount 
on the price of the car that under normal circumstances he wouldnt have had.
I understand Pendragons point of view. But its clear to me that Mr.W never wanted 
any insurance products. They were only accepted at they were free.  Had Mr. W 
been told the insurance costs would be covered by a dealership discount I think he 
might have argued to have the discount but not the insurances. If that wasnt an 
option, he might have taken the insurances but at least then he would have 
understood and accepted how they were funded. 
Mr. W has had  the inconvenience of unravelling costs that appeared on the contract 
information to work out what he was paying for. He then also had to contact each 
insurer individually to obtain partial refunds. I think under the circumstances £100 
compensation is reasonable for the inconvenience he has been put to 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Pendragon Financial Services Limited should pay Mr W £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman