DRN-3281473
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2017, Mr D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr D decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr D the whole of the quotation document on which 
the adjudicator had relied, only the parts which said he would make a profit;
Mr D had never had the opportunity to read all of it at the time of the sales meeting;
a copy of the quotation had not been sent to him to read in his own time after the 
meeting;
a copy was only left with him when the salesman returned two weeks later;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr Ds claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law;
one of the optional extras, a Water Aid, had never worked  P had offered Mr D 
£600 compensation for this, but he had not accepted it so as not to prejudice his 
claim against Shawbrook.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these in detail and 
whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ds recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr D agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr D agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.FIT payments
Mr D has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr D has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I would normally present a screenshot of the tables here, but the quality of the copy of the 
quote I have been provided with on this occasion is of poor quality, and so I will not do that in 
this decision. However, I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr D could expect to 
receive a total FIT income in year one of £201.14.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £311.98 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr D, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £597.12. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a later section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.34. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £93.59, but the difference  £1.75  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £95.34, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr D that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.85 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr D.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.Another page of the quote has a table detailing the performance of the system over 25 
years. This shows that by the end of year 18 the overall benefits that Mr D could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement 
(£16,946.20).
So Im satisfied that P told Mr D that the system would pay for itself by year 18, as supported 
by the table I have referred to. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that 
this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, 
that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,054 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ds FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,009 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, but 
is within two percent of the estimate, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected.
Water Aid
I havent seen evidence about the problem with the Water Aid feature, or Ps offer of £600 
compensation. However, assuming that this optional extra was defective at the point of sale, 
I think that if P has already offered to pay compensation for that issue, then it would be fair to 
allow P to pay for that, rather than requiring Shawbrook to pay it instead under section 75.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr D to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman