DRN-3612964
The complaint
Mr B complains about Novia Financial Plc, referred to as Novia or the business. 
In short, hes unhappy about the time taken to open his linked Stocktrade account and 
transfer funds. As a consequence, Mr B would like compensation for losses claimed. 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
On Thursday 22 April 2021, it received the Stocktrade application. Five working days 
later, on Thursday 29 April 2021 it actioned the application and requested further 
information by email, which it received the same day. 
By Wednesday 5 May 2021, three working days later, the application was completed 
and sent to Stocktrade  the funds then arrived and were applied to the wrapper. 
The next day, on Thursday 6 May 2021, it received confirmation from Stocktrade that 
the account was set up.   
On Wednesday 12 May 2021, four working days later, Stocktrades details were 
added to the wrapper. 
Two working days later, on Friday 14 May 2021, it processed the Stocktrade cash 
adjustment which initiated the transfer of the money. 
Two working days later, on Tuesday 18 May 2021, the Stocktrade cash adjustment 
was completed by Stocktrade and trading was possible. 
Whilst its operations team strive to complete each activity as quick as possible, it has 
a five-day Service Level Agreement (SLA) for each stage of the process which it 
complied with, even though it was a busy period whilst processing the application. 
Its platform and/or services arent designed to enable advisers or customers to time 
the market, so its not liable for any missed opportunity. Its satisfied that it didnt 
unnecessarily delay the opening of Mr Bs linked Stocktrade account and therefore it 
cant uphold the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Although 
theres been much correspondence between the investigator and the business, in summary, 
he made the following key points:
Hes concerned about the SLA and the five-day (maximum) time period allowed for 
each stage of the Stocktrade account opening and funding process.  
Without it being published, he cant endorse the SLA and its five-day time limit. 
Hes also confused as to the explanation behind why there is up to five days for 
each element to be completed, rather than an overall timeframe within which to 
complete the whole process  in other words, a set number of days within which to 
open and fund the Stocktrade account as a whole.  
Based on what the business says about the SLA, it could (potentially) take more than 
40 days to open and fund an account. Hes aware that this didnt happen in this case, 
but nevertheless, he still thinks the five-day SLA is unreasonable.
He appreciates it was a busy period but given the sort of time it would normally take 
the business to open and fund a Stocktrade account, he doesnt think it behaved 
reasonably in this instance.  
The terms and conditions state:"We will use our reasonable endeavours to process 
an application for a Product Wrapper within 5 working days of our receipt of all 
required information and documents"
In this instance, all the information was received by 29 April 2021, but the account 
wasnt opened until 12 May 2021. The funds were supposed to be sent by 13 May 
2021  as confirmed in the email dated 13 May 2021  but this wasnt done until 14 
May 2021.  
Hes asked the business to conduct a price/unit comparison between the number of 
units Mr B purchased on 18 May 2021, and what he couldve purchased on 13 May 
2021, had nothing gone wrong. 
The business didnt agree with the investigators view. In short, it said: 
The average amount of time taken to process this sort of application is eight 
working days  comprised of the following: 
oThree-day turnaround for processing the application, two-day turnaround at 
Stocktrade, and another three-day turn around for actioning the confirmation 
from Stocktrade and registering the account on the wrapper. 
oIt would expect subsequent cash adjustment to be processed within three to 
five days. 
Stocktrade is the provider of the stockbroker account thats offered by Novia. The 
service is operated by Stocktrade and the client or adviser will manage their account 
with Stocktrade directly. 
The account is held within a clients General Investment Account (GIA)  which is 
also the product wrapper. Novia facilitates the transferring of funds between the GIA 
and Stocktrade account. 
In this instance, Mr B was applying to open a Stocktrade account within the GIA, so 
the term referred to by the investigator doesnt apply. The opening of the Stocktrade 
account is covered by sections 7.3, 7.5 and 7.7 of the terms and conditions which 
also makes clear the process and some of the timescale.  
oIn respect of the email dated 13 May and sending the payment to Stocktrade, 
as per section 7.7 of the conditions this process can take up to three days to 
clear.  
The actions by Stocktrade are processed separately to Novia, and as such, have a 
separate SLA.
oFor example, Novia has five working days to process the correspondence for 
the Stocktrade application with the clients GIA (in this case completed on 
05/05/21), Stocktrade then has five working days to process the application at 
its end and confirm the account is set up (completed 06/05/21). Novias 
operations will then have five working days to register the new Stocktrade 
account to the clients wrapper (completed 12/05/21).
Whilst it aims to process applications faster, the SLA  and its agreed maximum 
timescale  allows it up to five days for each stage. 
It believes that it would be reasonable for Mr B  given his position and experience  
to be familiar with the SLA and the process.
It acknowledged that there had been an issue, but this was resolved within the SLA 
to enable the account to open. In other words, on 13 and 14 May it apologised to Mr 
B as a courtesy given his position, but it didnt accept any fault or liability. 
Although it doesnt publish the SLA, it considers compliance with it when dealing with 
any complaint and having done so cant agree it has done anything wrong. 
It was a very busy period, and it dealt with Mr B like any other client  even though 
he communicated with individuals in Novias operations team, directly. Whilst it hasnt met Mr Bs expectation, it met its own expectations that Mr B wouldve 
been familiar with. 
It agrees 40 days would be extreme without justification and much longer than it 
would expect  but Mr Bs request was processed within a reasonable amount of 
time.  
Mr B also disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
The business response flies in the face of any reasonable expectation of execution, 
especially as SLAs arent in the public domain. 
Novia received his application form on 29 April, but he was unable to trade again (as 
per their commitments) until 18 May  which is unacceptable given the state of the 
market. 
As SLAs arent published, he had a reasonable expectation in respect of the 
timeframe. SLAs sound more like an internal target than a way to judge their 
performance by. 
Up to five days to complete each element of the process seems unreasonable. Five 
days should be for the entire process  not each element. He would expect to have 
been able to invest on 6 May 2021. 
He doesnt think its fair that hes having to wait five days for an action to take place 
by Novia, for it to take a further four days once it received confirmation, and then 
another two days.
The above indicates that the business lacks process controls or resource to be able 
to deal with his request within a reasonable amount of time. 
As a customer paying a management fee, hes the one suffering. 
He knows that the process can be completed within 48 hours.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved reasonably in terms of the time taken to action Mr Bs request 
 therefore, I think the complaint should be upheld. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the redress recommended by the investigator 
is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Im mindful that notwithstanding the SLA, based on what the business says, it usually takes 
around eight working days to process an application of this kind. But in this instance, Im 
aware that it took the business longer (almost double) that time. In other words, I note by 22 
April 2021 the business had received the instructions from Mr B, by 29 April 2021 it had all 
the information it needed but the process wasnt complete until 18 May 2021 when Mr B 
could trade again.  
Based on what the business says, Im aware that it was a busy time and that the business 
isnt in control of the entire process, so despite what Mr B says I think its unlikely the process shouldve completed between 48 hours and six days - regardless of whether it had 
done so in the past. 
In this instance I dont think Mr B had a specific date by which he wanted to trade. Even if he 
did, Im satisfied that this wasnt something that the business could accommodate. However, 
Im persuaded that he wanted to trade as soon as his instructions had been successfully 
completed. Im also mindful that the business gave Mr B no guarantees. 
However, the above notwithstanding, on balance I dont think Novias explanation justifies 
why Mr Bs request wasnt completed sooner, and neither does the SLA that it seeks to rely 
upon to justify its conduct in this case. In other words, I dont think the business giving itself 
five working days to complete each stage of the process  and concluding that it has 
operated withing its own expectations  means that it has behaved reasonably. On the face 
of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it has. 
Im mindful that in line with the SLA  regardless of whether, or not, Mr B was aware of it   
the business can (in theory) justify taking up to 40 days to complete a request, which I dont 
think is at all reasonable. The business seems to accept this as it agreed with the 
investigator that this was without justification yet still seeks to argue the SLA is reasonable. 
In light of this I dont think the SLA provides a reasonable basis upon which to justify its 
actions.  
On balance, Im not persuaded that the process couldnt have completed sooner but for the 
issue(s) at the Novia end, for which I think its responsible. In this instance, Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that there were any issues with Stocktrade.    
I note on 13 May 2021, Mr B was told that the money hasnt gone through  its still in the 
window for the funds to be sent  and that this might be because "the stocktrade reference 
has been added to one area of Composer and not the other so the Stocktrade Cash holding 
doesn't know what account to apply the funds to once traded." Mr B was also told that this 
was an administrative holdup and will get sorted so that the funds will be with Stocktrade 
tomorrow. Despite what the business says, about its SLA and its terms and conditions, its 
still not clear why the money wasnt ready for Mr B to trade by this date. 
I note in response to the above email, Mr B said: Big shame because today was clearly a 
buying opportunity. Had his request been successfully completed, I think its more likely 
than not he probably wouldve traded that day. I note that he says he only requested a price 
comparison the next day after the FTSE 100 moved approximately 2%, compared to when 
he (purportedly) couldve purchased the shares the day before.
I also note on 14 May 2021 he said that he tried to make a purchase, but the money still 
hadnt arrived. And having spoken to the business, and with Stocktrade, he noted that one of 
his investments had bounced 2.75%. 
I note the business subsequently also confirmed that the funds were in ST cash but the 
person wasnt sure how long ST would take to reconcile the cash upon receipt. He also 
confirmed the following: 
CASS did send the funds by CHAPS. Everything was showing as I would have expected in 
Composer just after 1pm. Have to apologise though Mr B (name anonymised) CASS have 
told me they have only approved CHAPS payments in the last 30 mins which is why you 
havent seen it visible in the ST account today. The funds will be received by ST today but it 
really is subject to their own reconciliation before its tradeable in the ST account.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the investigators proposed redress in 
the instance is broadly fair and reasonable  it takes into account the busy period but also 
the businesss shortcomings, and allows the business roughly 12 working days  several 
working days less than it took  within which to have successfully completed Mr Bs request. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, by way of redress, I think the business should 
conduct a price/unit comparison between the number of units Mr B purchased on 18 May 
2021, and what he couldve purchased on 13 May 2021, had there been no issues. And if 
there is a negative difference, it should refund those units. 
Putting things right
Novia Financial Plc should conduct a price/unit comparison between the number of units Mr 
B purchased on 18 May 2021, and what he couldve purchased on 13 May 2021. If there is a 
negative difference, the business should reimburse the difference in the number of units. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Novia Financial Plc should work out and pay redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman