DRN-4410100
The complaint
Mr V complains that he was misled into buying a suite of holiday products and that they are 
no longer available. Because he paid for them in part using a credit card issued by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) he says that is liable in the same way as the supplier. 
Mr V has been represented by a claims management business, so when I refer to his 
arguments and submissions I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
In July 2011 Mr V bought a package of holiday and leisure products from Club Class 
Services Sarl, a company registered in Gibraltar. It changed its name shortly afterwards to 
Club Class Sarl. Mr V says the package included: 
indefinite membership of Club Class Prestige, administered by Club Class plc, a 
Seychelles company;
membership of Leisure Alliance Promotions, administered by Leisure Alliance plc, also 
registered in the Seychelles; and 
a cashback voucher, administered by Cashback Europe Ltd, a Gibraltar company.
Mr V paid part of the purchase price with his Tesco Bank credit card to Imagen Sinergica SL, 
and the balance by bank transfer. 
In October 2012 Club Class plc was wound up. Mr V says that he was unable after that to 
use his Club Class membership and that there was therefore a breach of contract. 
Mr V says he was told that he would receive a cashback voucher worth £6,230, which he 
could redeem after three years. That was not true, and Mr V says that he therefore has a 
claim in misrepresentation.    
In February 2017 Leisure Alliance plc was wound up. Mr V says he was therefore no longer 
able to use the benefits of that membership, a further breach of contract.  
When Mr V put these claims to Tesco Bank, in May 2019, it initially said that they were out of 
time because Imagen Sinergica SL had ceased trading more than six years earlier. Mr V 
referred the matter to this service. 
One of investigators considered what had happened and agreed that there had been a 
breach of contract and that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr V could 
bring that claim against Tesco Bank. The investigator recommended a full refund of the 
contract price and interest. Tesco Bank did not agree with the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and, because I did not agree with the investigators preliminary assessment, issued 
a provisional decision, in which I said:
Relevant legislation
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act provides:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 12 says:
12 Debtor-creditor supplier agreements.
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement being

(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier

And section 11(b) says:
11 Restricted-use credit and unrestricted-use credit.
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement

(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier ) other than the 
creditor

Was there a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement?
In this case Mr Vs contract was with Club Class Services Sarl, but the credit card payment 
was made to a different company, Imagen Sinergica SL. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act can however still apply if payment is made to an 
associate of the supplier, as defined in section 184. Mr V has provided evidence that the 
owner of Imagen Sinergica SL was the sole director of Club Class Services Sarl. That would 
make the companies associates of each other. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I 
have therefore considered the claims made. 
Misrepresentation 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr V says he was told that he would be able to redeem a cashback voucher after three 
years and would receive a payment of £6,320 from Cashback Europe Ltd. In fact, the 
conditions attached to the voucher were so onerous that only a small number of voucher 
holders were ever paid; Mr V was not one of them.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on contract (which includes claims for misrepresentation) cannot generally be brought after six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
Any statements about the cashback voucher and the likelihood of receiving a refund would 
have been made in or around August 2011. Mr V did not however raise any claim with Tesco 
Bank until March 2019, nearly eight years later  and nearly five years after he would have 
found out that no payment was to be made. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act. 
Breach of contract
Mr V has referred to two events which he says give rise to a claim for breach of contract. 
They are:
the winding up of Club Class plc in October 2012; and 
the winding up of Leisure Alliance Plc in February 2017. 
In respect of the winding up of Club Class plc, any cause of action would have accrued in or 
soon after October 2012. It is likely therefore that, by the time Mr V made his claim against 
Tesco Bank in March 2019, any action in respect of that would have been out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Even if that were not the case, it appears that there was an agreement 
between Club Class plc and Leisure Alliance plc by which the latter agreed to take on the 
liabilities of the former. I have seen a copy of that agreement and of a template letter to 
members informing them of that. 
Be that as it may, there is in my view a more fundamental issue which I need to consider, 
namely the terms of Mr Vs contract with Club Class Services Sarl / Club Class Sarl. What 
was it that that company agreed to provide, and did it fail to provide it?
The agreement that Mr V signed is fairly short and comprises a Membership Application and 
the Club Class plc Terms and Conditions of Membership. There is also a reference to 
annexes. The terms and conditions say:
The purchase contract is with Club Class Services Sarl (clause 1).
The membership is administered by Club Class plc (clause 2). 
And clause 13 said:
I/we understand that Club Class Services (sarl) is an independent intermediate [sic] for Club 
Class. Club Class Plc is solely responsible for the redemption of the membership you have 
purchased. Any disputes regarding your membership will be between the purchaser & Club 
Class Plc. Club Class Services (sarl) accepts no liability with regard to the fulfilment of 
members entitlements.    
In my view, therefore, it was clear that the sellers obligation was to sell the membership; but 
a different company, Club Class Plc, was to provide the benefits and services associated 
with that membership. There is no suggestion that Cub Class Services Sarl did not arrange 
for the membership to be provided to Mr V. 
It may well be that the two companies were linked, but that is not enough to enable Mr V to 
pursue a claim for breach of contract against both of them. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr V could successfully bring a claim against 
Club Class Sarl. It follows that it would not be fair to require Tesco Bank to meet the claim he 
has made.    Tesco Bank accepted my provisional findings, but Mr V did not respond to them. I have 
therefore reviewed the case in full.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Tesco Bank nor Mr V has had anything to add in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. In saying that, however, I stress 
that I have reviewed the entire case afresh.
My final decision
For the reasons I have indicated, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Vs complaint 
and do not require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman