DRN-2880896
The complaint
Mrs M complains Nationwide Building Society didnt notify her of a reduction in interest rate 
on her savings account.
What happened
Mrs M held a savings account with Nationwide. Mrs M initially thought it was a fixed rate 
account and wasnt happy the interest rate had been reduced in May 2020. Nationwide told 
her it was a variable rate savings account and the interest rate was reduced because of a 
reduction in interest rate from the Bank of England. 
Mrs M says she wasnt notified of the rate change prior to her finding out in October 2020 
and she felt she should have been notified, so she complained. Nationwide considered her 
complaint and said they hadnt done anything wrong in not notifying her, because at the time 
they reviewed her account her balance was under £100 and so in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, they didnt need to notify her of the change. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with the response so referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong and felt they had acted in line 
with the rules. This was because when the account was reviewed the balance was less than 
£100 so Nationwide didnt need to provide her with a notification. 
After issuing his opinion Nationwide said they had done a further review and realised a 
notification letter was in fact sent to Mrs M in April 2020. Our investigator considered the 
updated information from Nationwide and said whilst this changed the basis on how he 
looked at the complaint, it didnt change his outcome. He still felt Nationwide didnt need to 
do anything further as they had shown theyd sent Mrs M the notification expected of them. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said Nationwide treated her negligently and this was evidenced by 
them not providing the information of the notification letter when she initially complained to 
them, and it taking them over six months to provide it to our service. She also said she was 
signed up for both online and paper banking so she should have received this notification via 
both methods. Because Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I appreciate that Mrs M has found the experience of complaining to Nationwide to be 
most dissatisfying, and I also appreciate her strength of feeling. However, Im afraid Im not 
able to consider those points, as I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  
such as accepting deposits. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of 
itself. So I dont have the jurisdiction to deal with those issues. Instead, Ive focused my 
findings on the way Nationwide dealt with Mrs Ms savings account. 
Mrs Ms savings account interest rate was reduced in May 2020. Nationwide have said this 
was done in line with the terms and conditions of the account. As this was a variable rate 
savings account Nationwide does have the power to make a change to the interest rate they 
provide. 
The rules governing this say:
Where a firm proposes to exercise a power to make  a material change to any rate 
of interest  the firm should provide reasonable notice to the banking customer on 
paper or in a durable medium before the change takes effect  A change of rate of 
interest should always be considered material except where the balance of the 
account is less than £100 at the time when the firm would provide the notice.
The rules also go on to say how the notice should be provided, in terms of the content of the 
information in the notification. 
Nationwide had originally told us that the account was reviewed in April 2020 when the 
balance of the account was less than £100, but they subsequently told us theyd made an 
error and the account was in fact reviewed towards the end of March 2020 when the balance 
of the account was above £100. Whilst its disappointing the amount of time it took 
Nationwide to provide this information, I do think this was a genuine error and I have no 
reason to think this information is incorrect from the evidence provided. 
As the balance was over £100 when the review took place, Nationwide needed to provide 
Mrs M notification of the proposed change to the interest rate. Nationwide have given us a 
sample copy of a letter they say they sent to Mrs M. They have also given us a copy of their 
internal records to show the letter was sent to Mrs M. Ive looked at the information provided 
on the sample letter and Im satisfied it was sufficient to meet the rules set out. 
Mrs M said she didnt receive this notification. She says she receives correspondence from 
Nationwide via post and online, and because she didnt receive the letter online, she felt this 
meant the letter wouldnt have been sent either. But the internal records provided by 
Nationwide show the letter was correctly addressed to Mrs M and the records show her 
account details to highlight what this entry related to. There isnt a requirement for 
Nationwide to send the notification by different mediums, so Im also satisfied that the letter 
was sent as required by Nationwide.
I recognise that Mrs M feels strongly about this and will be disappointed with my decision but 
based on everything Ive seen and the rules I must abide by, I dont think Nationwide has 
treated her unfairly. So I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman