DRN-3319223
The complaint
Mr W complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) incorrectly 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of AA involved throughout the claim but for the 
purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AA.
What happened
Mr W called AA to cancel his motor insurance policy renewal. 
After discussion with Mr W about if he wanted to cancel immediately or leave to the end 
date, at his request, AA cancelled the policy with immediate effect.
Mr W cancelled his final direct debit and AA were unable to collect the final payment due on 
his credit agreement.
AA said it had explained to Mr W that the policy was cancelling with immediate effect at his 
request and there was still a payment to be made on his credit agreement that was due on
4 December 2021.
Mr W is now receiving letters advising his credit agreement is in arrears.
As Mr W was not happy with AA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He did not find that AA had acted incorrectly 
when it cancelled his policy immediately or unfairly by requiring the final payment to be 
made.
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy was due to end on 5 December 2021. He called AA on 15 November 2021 
after receiving his renewal invitation paperwork.
Mr W paid for his motor insurance policy in monthly instalments.
There are several parts to Mr Ws complaint. I shall cover these individually.
Cancellation of the policy
I listened to the call Mr W made to AA on 15 November 2021. 
Mr W started the call by saying he would not be renewing his policy. The AA agent asked 
him for his reason for not renewing and he explained his car was off the road and would be 
for a few more months so there was no point in carrying on paying.
The AA agent then asked Mr W if he wanted to cancel the policy with immediate effect or let 
the policy run until it was due to end on 5 December 2021. The agent explained there would 
be no refund on the policy if he cancelled it with immediate effect. Mr W said a number of 
times that because the car was sitting on his driveway and would be off the road for another 
few months, there was no point in it being insured. 
Mr W confirmed he wanted the cancellation of the policy to take place immediately. The AA 
agent confirmed the final date of payment was 4 December 2021 and that Mr W wouldnt get 
any refund before she confirmed cancellation of his policy.
During the call the AA agent advised Mr W that it may be able to look at backdating some of 
the payments if he was able to prove the car had not been used during the term on the 
insurance and gave him the details of who to contact. 
I do understand that Mr W made the call specifically to let AA know he was not renewing his 
policy. But after listening to the call I am satisfied that AA were clear to him the cancellation 
was to take place immediately, there would be no refund of costs and there was still a 
payment to be made on 5 December 2021.
Cancelled direct debit
I reviewed Mr Ws motor insurance documentation and credit agreement that was all sent to 
him at the start of the term of his insurance in November 2020.
Within the terms and conditions of the policy it says; 
You many cancel this insurance at any time. Your Insurer will refund a percentage of the 
premium calculated on a pro rata basis equivalent to the period of cover left unused.
Within the Additional information section of Mr Ws policy it says;
Beyond the 14-day cooling off period, there may be an outstanding balance to pay for the 
period of cover used. 
It also says; It's important you don't cancel your direct debit instruction until you've made all 
the payments you need to.
I found the monthly instalment amounts and payment dates clearly detailed, showing the 
final payment amount and due date of 4 December 2021. Before the payment table is 
detailed it says; it's important you don't cancel your direct debit until the final payment date 
below.
In Mr Ws case as there were only three more remaining weeks to run on his policy, there 
was no refund due.
Mr W cancelled his direct debit at some point after the call with AA, preventing the final 
payment from being collected. This is in breach of his credit agreement. Mr W said that this 
was because he thought if he didnt cancel it, AA could continue to take payments. 
After considering both the content of the phone call Mr W made to AA and the information in 
his policy documentation, I believe it is clear the full amount of the policy was due to be paid. 
Even though Mr W had asked for an early cancellation on 15 November 2021. The AA agent 
told him during this phone call on that that there was still a payment to be made on 5 December 2021. 
The AA agent also confirmed the renewal was cancelled during the call. And I have seen 
that a letter and email was sent to Mr W after the call to confirm the date of cancellation and 
that there was no refund due.
I do not think AA have been unfair in contacting Mr W to collect the outstanding payment and 
issuing him with a default notice.
A £12 fee that applies, due to the missed final payment has been waived by AA. Mr W still 
owes the final payment on the account and should settle the balance to prevent any impact 
to his credit file.
Refund
After looking into Mr Ws request for a refund on his policy, AA said there was no refund due 
to him.
AA said motor insurance is a legal requirement unless the vehicle is declared SORN by the 
DVLA. 
Mr W provided proof his vehicle was declared SORN.
AA confirmed it could not provide a refund even though the vehicle is declared SORN 
because it still provided cover for fire, theft and vandal damage.
I checked the underwriting criteria of Mr Ws policy and saw it says; 
Vehicles laid up/out of use 
Suspension of a motor policy is not accepted. If a vehicle is laid up/out of use, the policy 
must remain in force. 
AA agree its agent should have advised him this could be the case. However, I found the 
agent told him it may be able to offer a refund. The Agent didnt say he was definitely entitled 
to a refund.
As the policy is clear, I agree AA acted within the terms of Mr Ws policy and fairly declined 
any refund of the policy costs.
I have considered what would be different in this case if the AA agent had just accepted Mr 
Ws request to cancel his renewal and the call had not gone any further. In this case the 
direct debit Mr W cancelled would still have been due to be paid. And the full policy payment 
was still due whether it was cancelled early or left to run to the end of the term. There would 
have been no difference in cost to Mr W.
The only difference was that cover ended on 15 November 2021 and not on 5 December 
2021.
Therefore, after consideration of all the parts of Mr Ws complaint, I do not uphold his 
complaint and do not require AA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman