DRN-2924101
The complaint
Mr H complains FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.Com (Smart-Pig) lent to
him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. Smart-Pig didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow and 
forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H took seven loans with Smart-Pig between February 2017 and January 2019. Ive
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount 
BorrowedDate Taken Actual Repayment Date
1 £150 18/02/2017 02/05/2017
2 £250 23/05/2017 24/09/2017
3 £350 06/11/2017 08/01/2018
4 £350 18/01/2018 09/04/2018
5 £350 17/04/2018 26/09/2018
6 £350 04/12/2018 07/01/2019
7 £350 11/01/2019 03/05/2019
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say Smart-Pig was wrong to have
granted the first four loans. But she thought loans 5, 6 and 7 shouldnt have been given
because of Mr Hs financial circumstances and the pattern of lending.
Mr H appears to agree with the adjudicators assessment.
Smart-Pig disagreed with the adjudicators view about the loan pattern and that loans 5, 6
and 7 shouldnt have been granted. It also made a comment about the ranges that were
used when Mr H gave it information about his expenditure.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. But given the
comments and conversations that Smart-Pig has been having with our service, Ive included
the relevant regulations that Smart-Pig was required to abide by when deciding whether to
lend to Mr H.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Smart-Pig lent after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had transferred from the
Office for Fair Trading (OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. The
FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And
the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit
providers, such as Smart-Pig. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a
regulated agreement.
The starting point for the relevant rules is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what a
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must
consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to
repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences.
CONC then goes to explain what sustainable means in 5.3.1.(6);
6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Smart-Pig is part of. The letter
didnt include any new rules, and instead deals with how firms ought to be handling
complaints about whether their previous lending was unaffordable. I do think it offers some
insight on the FCAs perspective on the rules and what is expected of lenders within the
portfolio. So, I do consider it to be of some relevance in this case. Indeed, this is reinforced
by what the FCA says on page two of the letter:
Firms in this portfolio vary significantly in size and have a wide variety of specific
business models and products. However, customers who use high cost credit
products tend to share some key characteristics  for example, they tend to have
poor credit histories and low financial resilience. Many of them are also likely to be
vulnerable. Given these characteristics, lack of appropriate affordability checks and
poor treatment of customers in default or arrears creates a risk of considerable harm.
Firms are reminded of their obligations to treat customers fairly and appropriately.
They should also ensure that they take an appropriate approach to creditworthiness
assessment and treat customers in default, or in arrears, with forbearance and due
consideration.
It then goes on to say:
While not all of the findings of our letter may apply to your firm, we have seen anumber of specific causes of harm across the firms in this portfolio. We therefore
encourage you to read and reflect on the entire letter. If we have contact with your
firm in the future, we will expect you to be able to explain what you did in response to
this letter.
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers
and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the
key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we
analysed their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of
information and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of
complaints, and findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on
guarantor lenders, which involved issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers
may not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can
better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and
firms. This work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing
journeys, firms marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of
relending for consumers. We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may
cause consumers. As part of this work, we will proactively engage with home 
collected credit firms to ensure they understand our expectations. We will also 
discuss any changes to their processes as a result of the new rules and guidance on 
relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement on high-cost 
credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in
assessing affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit
customers finances are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and
low financial resilience. Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with
all our affordability requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the
Dear CEO letter we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was
aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about 
many of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are handling 
complaints appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including 
analysing the root causes of complaints and taking into account the Financial 
Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. We gave further detail about what we 
expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Turning to the Dear CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was 
mentioned in the Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter, the following is of 
note:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of 
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach 
to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financial- 
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these 
examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective 
procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These 
were flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said 
that we were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of 
dependency on HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous 
affordability assessments were key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should 
ensure they are making responsible assessments of the sustainability of 
borrowing.
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Smart-Pig did anything wrong when it
provided Mr H with his loans.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the relevant rules, 
guidance and law, along with our established approach (which can be found on our 
website) for investigating irresponsible lending complaints. I think the overarching questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Smart-Pig, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr H would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Smart-Pig ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did Smart-Pig act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
These questions do not need to be considered sequentially.
If I determine that Smart-Pig did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H and
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
It is important to note the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability
of the arrangement for the consumer. Although, the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible
Lending Guidance (ILG) does provide some examples of information a lender may wish to
use.In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As set out in the ILG and CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of 
the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and 
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not 
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might 
not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more 
assurance the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much 
was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Smart-Pig should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint
.
Mr H doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Smart-Pig wasnt wrong
to lend the first four loans. It seems therefore that this lending is no longer in dispute, so I
dont need to make a finding about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Smart-Pig
did anything wrong when it lent loans 5, 6 and 7.
Smart-Pig is a specialist lender which only provides finance to students. As part of its
checks, it asked Mr H about his expenses and for evidence of the amounts and dates of his
student loans as well as income from his employment.
Firstly, Smart-Pig has made some comments about the expenditure bands  which is the
way it collects information about what a particular consumer is spending. Mr H declared hehad zero expenditure for credit commitments, even though Smart-Pig has told us it was
aware of other credit commitments from his credit file  such as a payments to a mail order
catalogue. So Smart-Pig ought to have been aware that the information Mr H was provided
needed further checking and may not have been entirely accurate.
Secondly, it seems that Smart-Pig asked Mr H for details of his expenditure across a number
of different headings, such as rent and transport. It seems that Smart-Pig then recorded his
expenditure as a number of bandings. For example, Mr Hs rent is marked as 101  250. So
Smart-Pig was aware Mr Hs rent could be as low as £101 or as high as £250.
In this case, taking the higher banding figure for the areas that Mr H declared he had
expenditure for comes to £350  which is what the adjudicator used. Whereas, if we used
the bottom of all the bands, Mr Hs expenditure would be £103 and the middle of the band
around £226.
It is our services approach when considering affordability complaints to use the top of any
bandings used. This is because, it is reasonable to consider the worst-case scenario for the
consumer. This is because a consumers expenditure could be at this level. Smart Pig has
said that using a mid-point is more reasonable. But without any evidence to show that Mr Hs
expenditure was around these levels then I dont think its safe to do this and discount the
recorded information at the point of sale that shows it could be much higher than this. And, in 
this case, if Smart-Pig had evidence of Mr Hs actual expenses then that is something this 
service would consider. But without it, and I can only assume it didnt get this information as 
it only provided the banding, then its reasonable, when looking at whether the loan is 
affordable, to take account the top of any figure Mr H has given.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where
Smart-Pig ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Hs indebtedness in a way
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?
For reasons that Ill go into below, I dont think by loan 5 Smart-Pig was carrying out
proportionate checks when it approved any further borrowing. Mr H had been returning fairly
regularly for new lending, and Smart Pigs checks hadnt gone further than a credit check,
income verification, and then using bands to try and establish Mr Hs likely outgoings. So by
now, Smart-Pig ought to have been verifying all the information Mr H was providing,
including his expenditure. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for
copies of his income and outgoings via bills or it couldve asked to verify the information from
his bank statements. But Smart-Pig didnt do this for loan 5, or any later loans that Mr H
took.
Indeed, Smart-Pigs own credit check for loan 5 revealed an account had recently defaulted
since loan 4 had been given. Smart-Pig says the default wasnt added to the credit file until
April 2018. And it says that as Mr H was taking steps to reduce the defaulted balance and
appeared to be on some sort of repayment plan. In Smart-Pigs eyes it says that it felt Mr H
probably had forgotten about the account and then once notified of it, he started to make
payments.
Ive thought about this, and while what Smart-Pig says could be the case, I also have to
consider that Mr H defaulted the account because he couldnt afford the repayments he was
committed to making. And in fact the default is a clear indication it was likely Mr H was
experiencing underlying financial difficulties at this point, particularly given this account had
previously shown repayment problems, which were revealed by Smart-Pigs earlier checks.
In addition, I think there is evidence of Mr H using high cost short term loans, indeed by loan
5, it appears he had three outstanding loans with high cost lenders. And so this on its own is
arguably enough to uphold the complaint.Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear that a lender shouldnt
continue lending where the loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful and / or it was
apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial difficulties.
It seems to me that there may come a point at which a responsible lender ought fairly and
reasonably to have realised that continuing to offer further lending to a customer who
appeared to be persistently and repeatedly reliant upon it was unsustainable or otherwise
harmful.
The FCA has said that repeat lending wont always lead to an unfair outcome for consumers.
But, of course, the FCAs publications also dont say that repeat lending will always be fair,
reasonable and proportionate in all circumstances. And it is this that Ive considered when
looking at whether Smart-Pig made an error in providing these loans.
Ive already explained in this decision why I think that Smart-Pigs creditworthiness
assessments werent proportionate and therefore were unlikely to provide a decent
understanding of Mr Hs financial situation. It therefore follows that harm could be done to
Mr H. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it was, as will be discussed on the following
page.
On 6 August 2020 the FCA published a report to the whole market on its findings about
repeat lending. Again, this paper was issued after Smart-Pig lent to Mr H, but these findings
didnt introduce any new rules and regulations and, indeed, referenced previously issued
Dear CEO letters. The paper says:
We remind firms of our Dear CEO letter from October 2018, sent to all HCSTC firms
(but which equally applies to other firms in the high-cost lenders portfolio). In that, we
highlighted the risks in relation to repeat borrowing given that it could indicate a
pattern of dependency on credit that is harmful to the borrower. Rigorous affordability
assessments are key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they are
making proportionate and responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Further, firms must not encourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit
agreement if the result would be the customer's commitments are not sustainable.
We are concerned in some instance to see levels of debt and repayments increase
significantly. We saw levels of relending often double within a 2 to 3 year period.
At some point, rising levels of overall debt and repayments will become
unsustainable for customers. From our consumer research, we are concerned that
firms are lending to customers beyond levels which they can sensibly manage and
causing customer harm as a result.
Smart-Pig needed therefore to carry out rigorous affordability assessments, and Ive already
explained above, why I dont think it did that in this case. And I think this relending paper is
clear that there will come a point for customers when a rising level of overall debt and
repayments will become unsustainable and therefore further loans shouldnt be provided.
So, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for the final loans
because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. This is because, in addition to assessing the
circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mr H, Smart-Pig needed to have
regard to the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during the course of its lending
relationship with Mr H.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs lending history with Mr H, with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Smart-Pig should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Smart-Pig should have realisedthat it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case including what Smart-Pig knew about Mr
H, I think that this point was reached by loan five. I say this because:
By loan 5 it was 14 months into the lending relationship with no significant breaks
between the loans (and Mr H had borrowed at least once per term) ranging between
£150 and £350. In my view, Mr Hs loan history up until this point was a clear
indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving;
The level of the loans was showing a broadly consistent pattern, with three of the five
loans being £350. I think its most likely this pattern of borrowing over the period
showed that Mr H didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably
supporting regular living expenses or other financial commitments;
Mr H applied for loans with Smart-Pig in October and November 2018  although
these were declined, these further loan applications at this point dont suggest to me
his circumstances werent showing any sign of improvement;
Mr Hs lending history was prolonged with subsequent loans being taken out in
December 2018 and January 2019. The amount of time that Mr H spent indebted to
Smart-Pig meant that he was servicing a debt to Smart-Pig over an extended period;
I think that Mr H lost out, and harm was caused to him, when Smart-Pig provided loans 5, 6
and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost
loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5, 6 and 7. Ive set out what Smart-Pig should
do to put things right below.
Any further comments or evidence were asked to be received by both parties by 12 July 
2021. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Smart-Pig nor Mr H provided any further information or comments for me to 
consider. 
So, I see no reason to depart from the finds that I reached in my provisional decision and I 
still think Smart-Pig was wrong to have provided loans 5, 6 and 7. Ive set out below what 
Smart-Pig needs to do to put things right for Mr H. 
  
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Smart-Pig should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, notattempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Smart-Pigs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In order to put things right Smart-Pig should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 5, 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove loans 5, 6 and 7 from Mr Hs credit file entirely, this is because the period of
time Mr H owed Smart-Pig money means that any information still recorded about
these loans is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart-Pig to take off tax from this interest. Smart-Pig
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.Com should put things right for Mr H as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman