DRN-3227963
The complaint
Mr R has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made for 
the theft of cash when he claimed under his home insurance policy following a burglary.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Rs home was burgled and several items were stolen. When Mr R first 
reported the burglary, he told esure that several thousand pounds had been stolen. He was 
aware of the policy limit for stolen cash of £750. 
When Mr R submitted a list of stolen items to esure, he said £400 cash had been stolen from 
a drawer and didnt list the thousands of pounds previously mentioned. He listed stolen items 
from his safe, but didnt list any cash. 
esure settled part of Mr Rs claim. Mr R later confirmed that hed sold a car for cash a few 
months before the burglary and hed held £7,000 cash in his safe as a result. 
esure didnt settle Mr Rs claim for cash and so Mr R complained to esure. In September 
2021 esure replied to Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it hadnt seen satisfactory 
evidence that cash had been stolen. esure said it was only recently that Mr R had raised the 
issue of the cash in the safe from the sale of car  and the receipt of sale was for £5,900 and 
not £7,000.
esure said it would request a copy of the police report  but that its decision not to uphold 
the complaint was correct. 
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that it was fair for esure to 
pay the cash settlement part of Mr Rs claim in line with the policy limit of £750. While he 
understood Mr R hadnt mentioned the sale of the car initially, he had mentioned the loss of 
cash from his business at the outset  and hed provided evidence which esure hadnt 
disputed to show the sale of a car in July 2019. So overall the investigator thought it more 
likely than not that Mr R had cash up to the limit of £750 stolen at the time of the burglary. 
He didnt think the information Mr R had provided amounted to a change in testimony. 
Mr R accepted the investigators view. esure didnt agree. It says it has requested a copy of 
the police report. esure says it isnt prepared to settle the cash part of Mr Rs claim unless 
the police report satisfies its outstanding concerns. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr R didnt include the thousands of pounds of cash in business takings 
from his early contact with esure when he submitted his claim list following the burglary. In 
the call esure told Mr R the policy limit for cash was £750 which he was already aware of. 
I can see there are some inconsistencies in the cash amounts Mr R says was stolen from his 
home. But overall I dont think there is enough to say that Mr Rs claim for stolen cash of up 
to the policy limit shouldnt be met. Hes provided a receipt to show the sale of a car in July 
2019 for cash for £5,900. This evidence hasnt been disputed by esure. I think this evidence 
reasonably shows  along with the other information  that it was more likely than not that Mr 
R had cash in his home up to the policy limit of £750. I dont think it fair to await the outcome 
of a police report in relation to this part of Mr Rs complaint. And so it follows that I think a fair 
outcome is for esure to settle this part of Mr Rs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to settle Mr Rs claim for stolen cash up to the policy limit of £750. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman