DRN-2909764
The complaint
 This complaint is about Mrs Fs mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). Shes unhappy 
about the conflicting information she was given about her loan to value (LTV) ratio in a series 
of phone calls ahead of arranging a new fixed rate deal. The phone conversations were 
conducted by Mr F on Mrs Fs behalf, once she had passed security: for simplicitys sake, 
however, Ill refer to Mrs F as the caller from hereon.
 
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I intended to 
determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (rounding figures where applicable) 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mrs F first asked about her LTV in November 2019; her current interest rate deal was 
coming to an end and she was preparing to arrange a new one. The relevance of the LTV 
was that BOS offered lower interest rates where the LTV was 60% or lower. She was told in 
November 2019 her LTV was 60%; in fact it was very slightly over that.
Mrs F called again early January 2020; this time she was told the LTV was slightly over 60%, 
and shed need to make a lump sum payment of £540 to bring it below 60%. Mrs F could 
have paid the money then by going into her overdraft, but instead waited until later in 
January when she had been paid. 
But when she called at the end of January 2020 to arrange the new deal after having paid 
the £540, BOS told her shed now need to pay around £5,000 to bring the LTV down to 60%. 
The reason given for this was that the house valuation index that BOS uses had updated in 
the meantime, and her LTV had gone up. Mrs F didnt have £5,000, so she renewed her 
fixed rate on a two-year deal at 3.19% instead of the 2.79% shed have been eligible for if 
her LTV had been 60% or lower.
Our investigator thought BOS should have made it clearer in the first January call that the 
figure Mrs F had been given could change; had it been, he considered Mrs F would most 
likely have paid the £540 there and then (even though it meant going overdrawn for a few 
weeks) in order to secure the lower rate deal. He recommended BOS reimburse Mrs F the 
extra interest shell incur over the two years, and pay her £200 for her time and trouble. BOS 
disagreed and so the case has come to me to review and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusion as the investigator; but I think the 
proposed redress needs some adjustment. I set out my provisional findings below so that 
both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
It seems to me that BOS reasoning for its disagreement with the proposed outcome springs 
primarily from something Mrs F said during the November 2019 phone call; that was to the 
effect that she understood things could change over time. From this, BOS says its 
reasonable to infer that she knew during the first January 2020 call that the position could be 
different later in the month. 
There are two problems with that; firstly, I think BOS is slightly over-reaching in its inferences 
on what Mrs F did or didnt understand in November 2019. Secondly, the call handler in the 
first January 2020 call wouldnt have known the content of the November 2019 call, so 
wouldnt have known what level of awareness might or might not be inferred from what may 
have been said in the earlier call. The call handler in the first January 2020 call had a duty to 
ensure Mrs F had all the information she needed, clearly and unambiguously, to make a 
decision.
That doesnt mean disclosing confidential information about the frequency and/or timings of 
its valuation index updates. Its much simpler than; when Mrs F said she could pay the £540 
now but preferred to wait until she had been paid rather than use her overdraft, BOS should 
have made it clear that waiting even a relatively short time might result in a change in the 
figures. 
Of course, that change could have gone either way; it could have benefited Mrs F (if the LTV 
had gone down in the meantime) or it could have been to her detriment, as proved to be the 
case. The point is, BOS should have made sure Mrs F understood that waiting until later in 
the month exposed her to jeopardy. Had it done that, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that Mrs F would have used her overdraft to reduce her LTV immediately, in 
order to secure the 2.79% two-year deal.
So the outcome our investigator has recommended is fair; however, the redress is not quite 
right. Mrs F should be placed in the position shed have been in if shed reduced her LTV to 
60% in early January 2020. Rather than reimbursing her the extra interest she has paid (and 
will pay) on the higher rate, it means replacing the higher rate with the lower rate.
So, what BOS needs to do is re-work Mrs Fs mortgage account on the basis that she made 
the payment to reduce her LTV to 60% on 9 January 2020, and the fixed rate deal applied to 
her mortgage was at 2.79% rather than 3.19%. This will mean refunding the extra payments 
Mrs F will have made up to the point the account is re-worked, and reducing her monthly 
payments going forward to the end of the deal in 2022.Ive considered whether BOS should pay Mrs F interest at 8% on the amounts itll have to 
refund, as its money shes been deprived of. Ive decided it doesnt need to. Thats because 
Im also mindful of the fact that Mrs F would have incurred overdraft interest if she had 
reduced her LTV earlier in January 2020. Taking a broad-brush approach, I consider the two 
should be deemed to cancel each other out.
That leaves compensation for Mrs Fs time, trouble and upset. Im aware of what BOS 
offered Mrs F as part of a settlement she didnt accept. However, like the investigator, I 
consider £200, not £400, is more consistent with the level of award wed typically make in 
broadly similar circumstances.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Bank of Scotland plc to settle it 
as set out above.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman