DRN-4449735
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the service she received from BISL Limiteds agent, who Ill 
refer to as C,  when she contact BISL for help with a claim under her car insurance policy. 
And the impact this has had on her mentally and practically. 
What happened
Mrs Ts car was damaged when a lorry crashed into it whilst it was parked. She rang BISL to 
report the incident and for advice on what to do. C took the call on behalf of BISL. Its agent 
took all the details and ended up referring the claim to another company, who Ill refer to as 
E, who were to arrange a hire car for Mrs T and claim for this and the damage to her car 
from the insurer of the lorry. 
Mrs T was very unhappy about the way her claim was handled by it and E. She has said at 
one point she was told that the lorry wasnt insured and had to call the police to make sure it 
was. She says the process caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety, which had a 
significant impact on her mental health and led to her losing her job. 
Ms T complained to BISL about this and some further problems she had when she raised 
the matter with it. BISL agreed it could have handled matters better. It apologised and paid 
Mrs T £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with BISLs response and asked us to consider her complaint. One of 
our investigators did this. She explained she could only consider Mrs Ts complaint about the 
activities BISL was responsible for. She said Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld because 
Cs agent hadnt been clear enough with Mrs T when he referred her to E. She felt that if he  
had been clearer Mrs T would have decided to claim under her own policy instead of against 
the insurer of the lorry. And that she experienced distress and inconvenience by ending up in 
a process she didnt understand or realise shed be in due to Cs agents failings. The 
investigator said BISL should pay Mrs T a further £250 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience because of this.
BISL agreed to our investigators recommendation. Mrs T does not agree with it. She has 
said she made it very clear she wanted to claim on her own insurance and that the 
investigator therefore mis-interpreted the telephone conversation she had with Cs agent. 
And she seems to be suggesting she is complaining about C messing up her claim.  
As Mrs T wasnt happy with our investigators view on her complaint, it has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I can only consider what is BISLs responsibility. And what C and E did after Cs agent 
referred Mrs T to E arent BISLs responsibility. And we cant consider complaints about C or 
E as the activities they carried out arent regulated activities. BISL is only responsible for the 
first telephone call Mrs T made when she reported her claim and what she was told in this by 
Cs agent. I agree that Cs agent was not clear enough on the process he was putting Mrs T 
into. I think this meant she ended up in a process she was not expecting to be in and 
became very distressed because of it. But I do not consider I can hold BISL responsible for 
everything that happened to Mrs T as a result of the way her claim was handled by C and E. 
I can only hold it responsible for the initial call Mrs T made to C and the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of finding herself in the wrong process because 
of this. And Im satisfied that £250 in compensation is fair for this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and make BISL pay 
her a further £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and order BISL Limited to do what Ive set out above in the 
Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman