DRN-2861646
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Ald Automotive Limited (Ald Automotive), trading as Kia Contract Hire.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion but the actions Im expecting to tell Ald Automotive to
take to put things right are a little different than the investigator proposed.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald Automotive, who are also the supplier of the car,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here was brand-new
so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Ald Automotive were responsible for its
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr B says he reported the intermittent fault
in the first few weeks, but the business say it wasnt reported until May 2019 - theres no
dispute, however; that the fault was reported within the first six months.
What is disputed is whether there is a fault. Ald Automotive have been unable to identify any
problem despite the data logger being referred to the technical unit for analysis. They have
replaced the oxygen sensors, but Mr B says that didnt resolve the issue.
Im persuaded, on balance, that there is an intermittent fault with this car. I say that because:
Ive reviewed the video of the fault Mr B has provided. In that video the cars
acceleration is erratic and the vehicle seems to lose power. The driver explains that
the car is regularly misfiring before the engine eventually picks up power and speed.
The rev meter shows the revs fluctuating and rapidly picking up when we are told the
misfiring has finished. I cant hear any misfiring but that may simply be because the
recorder is unable to pick it up. I think the video is consistent with the faults Mr B has
been reporting. Theres a loss of power and a change in revs that supports his
suggestion the car changes down in gears. I also note the thermometer is showing
that the engine is cold. Mr B has always explained that the fault happens more
readily when the engine is cold.
Ald Automotive have suggested this is normal operation and I can see that attempts
were made to get a technician to drive the car over a prolonged period to test that.
But those attempts failed, and I dont think its fair to keep Mr B waiting any longer.
This has been a long-standing issue and his contract comes to an end this year; he
deserves a more rapid response;
Im not persuaded by Ald Automotives argument the fault could be caused by driver
error. Mr B has explained that hes had three automatic Kias before and I think that
suggests he is likely to understand the controls.
Im supported in that view by the fact the fault is still occurring even after Mr B was
told about the potential to catch the paddle shift. I think if it was operator error Mr B
would have been able to change the way he drove and alleviate any issues;
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present at the
point of supply and I think the business had that opportunity when it replaced the oxygen
sensors. Thereafter the relevant legislation explains that a consumer should be allowed to
reject the goods and I think thats what should now happen here.
Putting things right
Ald Automotive should collect the car at no cost to Mr B and they should end the finance
agreement.
Mr B has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had, amongst other things, to
return the car to the dealership; take videos to demonstrate the fault and escalate his
complaint to this service when the business failed to identify the persistent but intermittent 
problem he was experiencing. In those circumstances I think the business should pay him
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
And Id also agree with the investigator that Ald Automotive should remove any adverse
reports theyve made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to this issue.
The investigator suggested Mr B had fair use of the car and that Ald Automotive should
therefore retain the finance instalments hes paid up to date. But whilst Mr B has been able
to drive the car I think his use of it has been impaired by the intermittent problems hes
experienced. I think his enjoyment of the vehicle would have been spoilt and I understand
his explanation that, due to the problems he was experiencing, hes not been taking the car
on longer runs. So, Im expecting to ask Ald Automotive to refund 5 % of all the finance
instalments Mr B has paid in respect of the loss of use and loss of enjoyment hes
experienced. They should add 8% interest to that refund as Mr B has been deprived of that
money.Mr B made an advanced payment at the inception of this agreement. As the car is being
returned before the end of the agreement and the advance payment was to secure the car
for the entire agreement, Ald Automotive should provide a pro rata refund for the unused
portion. They should add 8% interest to that refund too.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Ald
Automotive Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
provide a pro rata refund of the advance payment for the unused portion of the hire
agreement and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
refund 5% of all finance instalments that have been paid in respect of the loss of use
and enjoyment Mr B has experienced. Add 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to
this issue.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ald didnt provide any further information and they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B still didnt think the compensation was sufficient. He explained that this was a new car 
and the whole point of a new vehicle was to have a stress free, enjoyable experience. He 
said that wasnt what hed had, and the compensation didnt properly consider the time, 
effort and stress involved in having to take the car back to the garage. He suggested that 
any further payments to Ald should be suspended.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said and I understand this will have been a frustrating time 
for him, but I think the level of compensation and the redress as a whole is sufficient here 
and in line with similar awards weve made in similar scenarios. 
Im persuaded there is an incentive for Ald to resolve this quickly as I am asking them to 
refund 5% of all instalments and to add interest until this complaint is settled. So, I dont think 
its necessary, or fair, to ask Ald to suspend future payments. They should simply settle this 
complaint as quickly as possible and I can see theyve already been in touch with this 
service to see how they can do that.  
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with sufficient information to change my provisional decision on this 
complaint and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ald Automotive Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
provide a pro rata refund of the advance payment for the unused portion of the hire
agreement and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
refund 5% of all finance instalments that have been paid in respect of the loss of use
and enjoyment Mr B has experienced. Add 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to
this issue.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman