DRN-3539899
The complaint
Mc C complains about an international transfer she made from her Nationwide Building 
Society bank account.
What happened
Ms C wanted to make a transfer from her account with Nationwide in pound sterling (GBP) to 
her GBP account in Turkiye. Ms C made the transaction online, but after not receiving the 
funds in her Turkish account she contacted Nationwide.
Nationwide said the receiving bank hadnt accepted the funds because they were sent in 
Turkish Lira (TRY). It said Ms Cs only option was to have the funds returned to her account 
with Nationwide in the UK.
When the funds returned, Ms C noticed they were less than what she sent. This was 
because Nationwide had applied a transaction fee of £20 and charged her £214.24 for the 
exchange of the transaction, first from GBP to TRY, and then back again to GBP.
Ms C complained to Nationwide. She said she didnt make the transfer in TRY and wasnt 
informed about losing any money due to exchange rates. She says the only option she was 
given was to return the funds and think Nationwide should have done more to help the 
transaction reach her Turkish account.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Ms C chose to transfer the funds 
in TRY, and thats the reason the transaction didnt complete. It says it made Ms C aware of 
the fee and of the exchange rate before completing the transfer.
Ms C didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought Nationwide had shown the transaction was requested 
in TRY and thought the fees and charges were fair.
Ms C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Shes adamant she requested 
the funds to be transferred in GBP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
Ms C was hoping for.
Ive seen the online journey for this transaction. And Ive seen Ms C was given a 
choice of which currency to send the money in. The online journey clearly states a 
fee will be applied to the transfer and that an exchange fee applies. So, I find it 
reasonable Nationwide charge these.
I appreciate Ms Cs points and that she feels strongly about how the transaction took 
place. I cant reasonably challenge how she recalls the transaction happening. But I 
think on balance, based on the evidence available, its more likely than not that she 
did request the funds to be sent in TRY. Ive seen the transaction request which is in 
TRY and I think its more likely that Ms C requested the transfer in TRY than it is that 
Nationwide amended the transfer from GBP to TRY itself.
Ive seen the reason the transfer wasnt accepted  because it was made in TRY not 
GBP.
I appreciate Ms C says she called for assistance on the transfer, but this looks to 
have been after it was made. And I think Nationwides advice to recall the payment 
was reasonable.
Unfortunately for Ms C, as the transaction was converted from GBP to TRY and then 
back again from TRY to GBP, Ms C has been charged for the exchange twice.
But as mentioned, the online journey does explain what the exchange rate is before 
completing the transaction. And as the return of the funds doesnt look to be due to 
any error on Nationwides behalf, I think its reasonable Ms C pays the exchange rate 
to turn the funds back into GBP.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman