DRN-3309511
The complaint
Mr P complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close his accounts.
What happened
In early February 2020, Nat West blocked Mr Ps account while they carried out a review. 
Nat West didnt inform Mr P about the block, but Mr P noticed his accounts were missing 
from his mobile banking application and his online banking. Mr P tried to contact Nat West 
as he wanted a list of his direct debits to ensure important bills were paid. Nat West didnt 
give Mr P any information relating to his accounts  including the block. Mr P raised a 
complaint.
On 19 February 2020, Nat West finalised their review and removed the block. The day after, 
they wrote to Mr P and let him know that theyd be closing his accounts. They gave him 60 
days notice. 
When responding to Mr Ps complaint, Nat West admitted that they should have made it 
clear any payments in and out of the account  including direct debits  wouldnt be 
processed. They confirmed theyd reimburse Mr P for any expenses he incurred because of 
this error.
Mr P said he spent the next two months or so, checking his accounts multiples times a day 
to ensure he didnt go into an overdraft. He wants to know why Nat West made the decision 
they did, and if theyd recorded any fraud markers against him. Mr P was also concerned 
about his rewards points hed earned from his credit card and thought his credit card had a 
credit balance on it.
While our service was reviewing things, Nat West made Mr P a proactive offer of £150 to 
settle the complaint. Mr P declined this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said Nat 
West were entitled to end the relationship with Mr P and they gave appropriate notice in line 
with their terms and conditions when doing so. Our investigator also explained that Mr P had 
90 days to use the rewards from his credit card. 
Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators response. In summary he said, he didnt agree Nat 
West can end the banking relationship with him like they did. Mr P is also concerned that he 
can be unfairly penalised in the future if other banks are acquired by Nat West and their 
associates as he wont be able to hold an account with them. Mr P also found various news 
articles and confirmed it wasnt only his account which had been closed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Nat West was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ps account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Nat West didnt tell Mr P about the review  but they dont have to. Im aware 
Mr Ps account was blocked on 7 February 2020 and he didnt regain access to his accounts 
until 19 February 2020. We wouldnt usually confirm a timeframe in which a bank has to 
carry out a review  but we would always consider if there were any unavoidable delays. I 
dont consider a period of 12 calendar days is unreasonable in the circumstances.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr P decided to stop banking with Nat West, he wouldnt have to explain why. Nat West 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Nat West have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ps account 
 and Im pleased to see they gave him the full 60 days notice to allow him time to source 
other banking arrangements. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion unless we think theyve acted unfairly. Nat West exercised their right to no longer 
offer Mr P banking facilities and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair 
decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. I appreciate Mr P said he had 
to check his accounts multiple times a day to avoid using an overdraft  but he could have 
closed his account himself at any point before the 60 days. I recognise Mr P didnt want the 
account to be closed, but Ive explained why Nat West were entitled to take the action they 
did.
Having reviewed everything, I havent seen any evidence from either party that Mr Ps credit 
card held a positive balance. However, if it did, I would urge Nat West to pay this to Mr P 
without undue delay. Im also satisfied Mr P could have accessed his credit card rewards 
and therefore cant hold Nat West responsible if he didnt do this. Ive also seen no evidence 
that any fraud markers have been recorded against Mr P.
Mr P has also commented on a similar situation happening to a lot of other customers. My 
decision is focused only on the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint  and therefore, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on the actions of Nat West and other customers 
as part of this decision.
I recognise Mr P has been left without answers, but I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this 
point. Im sorry hes found himself in this position, and I dont doubt it has been inconvenient 
for him. Im also sorry to hear that this situation happened around the same time as Mr P 
losing a family member. I acknowledge Mr Ps worries about future banking but based on the 
circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly say Nat West did anything wrong. Ultimately, 
they were entitled to review and block the account and decided to end their banking 
relationship with Mr P. Their actions complied with the terms and conditions on the account 
and therefore I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 Hayley West
Ombudsman