DRN-2637045
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Phoenix Life Limited no longer hold any record of a retirement annuity 
contract he took out in 1982 with what was then Provincial Life, and that it told him this was 
likely due to the policy being closed more than six years ago because it had no value. 
Provincial Life is now known as Phoenix Life Limited, so for clarity I shall refer to Phoenix 
Life throughout.
What happened
In October 1982 Mr C took out a retirement annuity contract, making regular contributions of 
£30 per month. The contract was set to provide an annuity when he turned 70 years old. He 
said he stopped making these contributions nearly six years later when he joined the 
occupational pension scheme of his new employer.
In the lead up to his 70th birthday in 2019, Mr C contacted Phoenix Life to ask about the plan 
and his options. When it found the plan Phoenix Life told Mr C that it had been closed for 
more than six years, so it had no details about it. Mr C complained to Phoenix Life, who in its 
final response letter didnt uphold his complaint. It said it didnt know why the plan had been 
closed, but it had probably been transferred, encashed or because the premiums had not 
been paid. But as it had been closed for more than six years it no longer stored the 
information. 
Mr C didnt agree so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think Phoenix Life 
had been unfair in not upholding the complaint. She thought the plan had probably been 
closed more than six years ago and noted that the on-going management charges on the 
plan meant it was likely that they had reduced the value of the plan to zero, especially as he 
stopped making contributions to it in 1987. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was certain the plan was not encashed or paid to him, and as 
he had made contributions for several years, he thought there should be some value to it. He 
also said as he had lived at the same address since 1986 Phoenix Life should have 
contacted him about the plan. As no agreement could be reached the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this is a matter of principle to Mr C, and I also fully understand he expects the 
contributions he made to the plan between 1982 and 1987 to be worth something. However, 
the difficulty he, I and Phoenix Life have here is the lack of definitive evidence. And where 
there is a lack of definitive evidence because of the passage of time, I need to decide what I 
think is most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities.
And having done so Im satisfied it is more likely than not that the policy was closed because 
it had no value, and its reasonable to conclude that this happened more than six years ago, 
meaning no records would be available now. 
Mr C made £30 monthly contributions into the plan for nearly six years. This was a pension 
plan, which was intended to be a long term investment with the expectation being that 
contributions will be made for the majority, if not the life, of the policy. But Mr C was in his 
early 30s when he took out the plan and contributed for less than six years of what was 
contracted to be nearly 40 years of contributions as he intended to take the benefits when he 
reached 70 years old. 
Mr C has also said his policy was made paid up. This means that contributions wont be 
taken any more.  However, just because he stopped contributing doesnt mean the business 
managing the fund didnt still incur costs, and these get paid for by charges which are 
deducted from the value of his fund. Ive looked closely at the plan terms and conditions, and 
I can see there were management charges applied for the life of the plan. The terms and 
conditions also say the following;
5.  In the event of non-payment of premium () then:-
(i) 
(ii) if two complete years premiums have been paid, unless an election has been 
made under Premium Variation of the Special Provisions to waive the premium, 
the Contract will remain in force only as a fully paid up Contract securing such 
reduced benefits as the Company shall determine at the time.
This is significant as it shows that on top of the management charges, the benefits could be 
reduced if contributions were ceased.
I think it is also necessary to consider the type of fund his contributions were invested in. 
This was an investment which was designed to provide an annuity at age 70, the value of 
which was dependent on the performance of the investments. I can see the plan was 
invested in a property fund, so the significant losses in the property market in the early 
1990s shouldnt be discounted and were likely to have caused a loss in value of the fund.
So the value of the fund would have been reduced by on-going management charges, non-
payment of premiums, reduced benefits due to being paid up, and significant fluctuations in 
the market.
Mr C also says that he has lived at the same address since 1986, so Phoenix Life should 
have contacted him. And I agree that this would normally be the case but as there are no 
longer any records held by Phoenix Life, I cannot say what if any correspondence was sent 
to Mr C. It is possible that Mr C didnt hear anything from Phoenix Life. But it would be highly 
unusual for him to have not been sent anything about his plan. I note that when the plan was 
set up Mr C lived at a different address and he moved in 1986, roughly one year before he 
stopped making contributions to the plan, so it is also possible that his address wasnt 
updated. Regardless, this doesnt change my mind that Mr Cs plan was more likely than not 
closed because it had no value, and not because of any wrongdoing by Phoenix Life. 
As Ive said above, I dont know what happened to the value of the fund as it was from so 
long ago. But Phoenix Life, as a regulated business, is accountable to the Financial Conduct 
Authority and HMRC, and its business practices are reviewed. So in the circumstances, I 
consider it is more likely than not that if Mr Cs policy had a value it would have been paid out. But Im satisfied that the most likely explanation for the plan being closed and Phoenix 
Life not holding any record of it, was that it had no value given the charges applied and the 
significant downturn in the property market in the 1990s, and the zero value was reached 
more than six years ago.
So given all of the above, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life has acted fairly in this matter and I 
dont require it to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman