DRN-1294999
 
The complaint
Mr K applied for a mortgage with Santander UK Plc and is unhappy with the valuation of the 
property. He says the report was flawed, and he later found out the property was unsafe.
What happened
Mr K applied for a mortgage with Santander for a property he was looking to buy. When the 
valuation was arranged he opted for the basic valuation for mortgage purposes report at a 
cost of £295.
The valuation was carried out on 7 July 2017 and Mr Ks house purchase completed on 
20 July 2017.
In March 2019 Mr K complained to Santander that the property was unsafe as the chimney 
stack wasnt properly supported, and the chimney vented into the loft leaving him in danger 
from the fumes. Santander rejected the complaint, saying the report had been just for 
mortgage purposes.
Our adjudicator said Santander did nothing wrong in relying on the valuation report, and that 
the surveyor (and therefore the contents of the valuation report) didnt come under our remit. 
Mr K didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should be asked or 
answered. For that reason I wont be answering Mr Ks questions, nor will I be ordering 
Santander to.
Santander doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Santanders not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act 
or omission by the surveyor or the firm they work for. Santander is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business  which the surveyor is - did (or didnt 
do). All I can consider against Santander is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable 
firm of surveyors, and having considered everything Im satisfied it did. Mr K says the 
valuation was flawed but Santander was entitled to rely upon it. Santander did nothing wrong 
in accepting the surveyors professional opinion.
This was a basic valuation for mortgage purposes, something that was explained to Mr K in 
the report. It says under the title IMPORTANT:
To the mortgage applicant(s):
1.This is a valuation for mortgage purposes based on a limited inspection which has 
been made to allow us to assess the property as a suitable security. Please refer to 
the guide provided to you on valuation services. Please note that this valuation is not 
a building survey or condition report and defects which a more detailed inspection 
should reveal may not be discovered or commented upon.
 
If Mr K wanted a survey to be carried out for his purposes, rather than just for Santanders 
use, then he could have instructed one be carried out. I cant hold Santander liable if he 
chose not to do so.
Mr K has also commented on the fee, saying Santander would have kept a significant 
amount of it, rather than paying it all to the surveyor. Mr K was told what the fee would be, 
and he agreed to pay it. How the fee was then split between Santander and the surveyor is a 
commercial agreement between those two parties and not something I can get involved in as 
its not within our jurisdiction to do so. If Santander kept any of the fee that does not mean it 
was then responsible for any acts or omissions of the surveyor.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Santander to change its processes 
as Mr K wants. If Mr K wants to raise any concerns with the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  hes free to do so. The regulator doesnt deal with individual disputes so 
wont get involved at that level, but it can look into Mr Ks wider concerns about the mortgage 
(and valuation) market if it shares those concerns. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman