DRN-3756765
The complaint
Miss A and Mr S complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd will not rescind its decision to void their 
term assurance policy for misrepresentation or consider a critical illness claim for Miss A.  
What happened
Miss A and Mr S applied to Zurich for joint decreasing term assurance on 18 June 2020 
through a third party broker. Their policy came into force on 4 August 2020. It offered them 
life and critical illness cover with an initial sum assured of £218,000 for a 35-year term.  
In December 2020, Miss A contacted Zurich to make a critical illness claim under the policy 
definition of cancer. She had sadly been diagnosed earlier that month with a type of fibrous 
tissue sarcoma.  
Zurich sought information from Miss As GP and treating consultant. After it did so, it told 
Miss A that it couldnt pay her claim  in fact, it couldnt have offered her any cover at all. It 
voided the joint policy, returning Miss A and Mr Ss policy premiums to them. Zurich wrote 
separately to Mr S regarding his options for the policy, since the misrepresentation applied 
solely to Miss A. 
Zurich said Miss A had failed to answer two questions correctly on her policy application, 
having said no to the questions, when it contended she should have answered yes and 
given further information. These questions would have elicited that Miss A had in fact 
suffered from a symptom in March 2020 (a lump on her knee/lower thigh) which she called 
her GP about; this had sadly led to her diagnosis.  
Miss A disputed Zurichs conclusion. She said the telephone appointment with her GP had 
described the matter as a muscle sprain and though it had persisted, it was not considered a 
concern. And, she hadnt seen the GP again for that matter. Instead, her diagnosis followed 
blood tests, after a further telephone appointment.  
Though Miss A and Mr S complained, Zurich didnt change its view. A complaint was first 
made to this service in May 2021.
In December 2021, an investigator from this service said she did not think the complaint 
should succeed. She said the questions on the application clearly asked Miss A if there
were any lumps, ongoing symptoms or complaints that she hadnt mentioned elsewhere, and 
so Miss A needed to tell Zurich about the lump on her knee. 
She acknowledged that Miss A didnt think a swollen knee was relevant when completing the 
application because the lump wasnt anything serious. She didnt think Miss A had 
deliberately misrepresented her position but she needed to have taken more care and told 
Zurich about the ongoing issue. Had she done so, it would have postponed offering cover 
until this had been investigated further and a diagnosis had been reached. So, it wouldnt 
have offered the joint cover in August 2020 at all.  
The first complaint was closed at this service in early 2022.  
In March 2022, Miss A said her GP accepted an addendum to her medical records and she 
therefore approached Zurich, asking it to reconsider its stance on the policy being voided 
and the refusal of the claim, since she now had further evidence not previously considered.  
Miss A submitted that the new evidence showed she did not have any pending 
investigations, nor did she have a lump officially diagnosed by the GP. Official investigations 
into her muscle injury which turned out to be cancer took place in October 2020  after she 
had started her policy. She and Mr S only sought new cover because they were moving 
house. 
She felt that Zurich had treated her unfairly, acted without care for her situation and accused 
her of being dishonest  when this was not the case. Miss A also said she had acted 
innocently, in accordance with guidance set out by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). 
On 12 May 2022, Zurich told Miss A that the additional information did not change its view 
on the claim. It said that while Miss As comments were her addition to the medical records, 
the GP notes remained unaltered. It was therefore satisfied it had reached the correct 
outcome in refusing the claim and voiding the policy.  
In June 2022, Miss A and Mr S complained to Zurich for a second time. However, on 13 July 
2022, Zurich said its decision to rescind the policy on the grounds of misrepresentation 
remained unchanged. Though Miss A had added her comments with the consent of the GP 
to the medical records, it remained the case that the GP notes referred to her symptom 
being a lump. And both the questions answered incorrectly mentioned lumps.  
Zurich also said that up to 4 August 2020, Miss A and Mr S had an ongoing duty to notify 
Zurich of changes to their health if those changes meant they should have given different 
answers. They were specifically told about this in the application correspondence. As it was, 
Miss A had consultations with her GP in March and September 2020 noting a history of a 
lump from February 2020. She should have told it about the symptoms as she knew to seek 
medical advice about it.  
Our investigator reviewed the second complaint but she still did not think it should succeed. 
She didnt believe that Zurich ought to disregard the original GP notes or find favour in the 
addendum made some two years later when the notes from March 2020 referred to Miss As 
symptom as a lump. She also said she had no reason to believe the GP wouldve recorded 
wholly inaccurate records of the symptoms Miss A presented on the telephone appointment.
Miss A said she and Mr S disagreed. Her understanding of the addendum to her medical 
records was that the two entries made by the GP would be discarded. She also reiterated 
that:
in respect of the first question, she answered no because she was told during the 
call that she had a muscle injury;
the amended evidence given in the addendum supported this;
no investigations were planned;
she felt reassured at this stage and therefore did not think she had anything to 
disclose;
the other amendment said it was fair to conclude that she and her GP were only 
discussing a muscle injury;
she refutes that Zurich would not have insured her based on a pulled muscle;
she was otherwise young, fit and healthy;
she has not made any misrepresentation;she answered the questions put to her to the best of her knowledge and 
understanding at the time;
so, Zurich shouldnt have cancelled her policy  it should have paid her claim in full.  
Miss A and Mr S asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Miss As diagnosis. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I 
am of the view that Zurich has acted reasonably in the circumstances of the complaint. I 
recognise Miss A and Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, but Ill set my reasons for 
my conclusions out below so they can understand why Ive reached this outcome.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done.
When it received the information to process Miss As claim, Zurich was prompted to review 
her medical records, because in the report sent to Zurich, Dr K, the treating consultant was 
asked, when did your patient first seek medical advice concerning the symptoms of this 
illness? to which he replied February 2020, via the GP soft tissue lump on right thigh 
(lower limb). 
Given this predated both the policy application and policy start date, it was therefore 
reasonable that Zurich reviewed what Miss A was asked on the policy application. Two 
specific questions asked:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have 
you had any of the following, or have you consulted a doctor, nurse or other 
health professional for:
Any lump, cyst, growth or polyp, or a mole or freckle that has bled or changed in
appearance? and 
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in this 
application:
In the last 3 months, have you had any symptoms of ill health, such as explained 
bleeding, weight loss, change of bowel habit, unexplained lump or growth, 
breathing problems or shortness of breath, or a cough thats lasted for 4 weeks or 
more?
I have highlighted some sections in bold above, for emphasis. Miss A replied, no to both 
questions.  
However, Miss As medical records showed that she had undertaken a telephone 
appointment with her GP on 17 March 2020 which referred to a painless lump. There was 
also a further record on 8 September 2020 where matters had progressed in terms of the 
lump growing and becoming painful, though I note this record is dated after the policy came 
into force.  I have carefully considered the medical records including the addendums. I should note that 
Ive not seen any objective evidence to suggest that the GP has deleted, retracted or 
withdrawn its records  rather, it has accepted Miss As additional comments as further 
information to be read alongside its clinical records from the relevant dates. 
The record of 17 March 2020 says:
Telephone triage encounter during COVID19 c/o painless lump on the rt knee, for 
about 4 weeks no bigger but uncomfortable when pressing it, walking normally and 
weight bearing, rt leg. Discussed in view of current situation happy to wait and book a 
face to face review to assess in 1-2 weeks.
Addendum discussed and approved by [name] surgery: Following this call, there 
were no planned or pending investigations. Patient felt reassured after the telephone 
appointment. Lump was not diagnosed at this stage. Use of term lump was not 
officially diagnosed at this appointment.  
   
Further, a letter issued by Miss As nurse on 7 May 2021 says:
[Miss A] first contacted her GP via telephone in March 2020 with an unexplained 
swelling to her thigh  he diagnosed a pulled muscle without any examination. NICE 
guidance recommends, if a patient presents with a lump thats 5cm or more, 
increasing in size, painful and deep, then they should automatically be referred for 
diagnostic tests or to the nearest sarcoma service for further investigation.
The nurse goes on to discuss how the GP didnt make a referral directly from the September 
2020 appointment either. It is inferred from this that if he had concerns, he would have done 
so  and Miss A could not have appreciated she would go on to be diagnosed with cancer. 
I am not suggesting that in saying no to both questions that Miss A tried to mislead Zurich or 
that she could possibly have thought that the issue with the swelling on her leg could 
transpire to be a type of cancer. But its my view that more care ought to have been shown 
over these questions, and that at the very minimum the first question should have been 
answered positively.
I recognise that Miss A may have understood from the telephone medical appointment that 
the swelling to her leg was not unexplained. At the time, it was recorded as painless. Though 
that had changed by September 2020 where there was growth and pain in the swelling, this 
was a month after the policy had come into force and almost three months from the 
application.  
However, I do not accept that a reasonable interpretation of the first question was to answer 
it negatively. It does not ask about diagnosis of the swelling or lump as a muscle strain or 
otherwise. It objectively asks Miss A to say whether she had and/or whether she had 
consulted a medical professional for any of the six listed symptoms in the last five years  
and included were 1) a lump or 2) a growth.   
Im also mindful that during the application process and when the policy offer was sent to 
Miss A and Mr S, Zurich provided clear reminders of the importance of answering questions 
accurately. For example, the letter confirming the policys acceptance on 4 August 2020 sent 
to each of them set out that:
Weve enclosed confirmation of the personal details you gave us during your 
application. Please check this carefully to make sure the information shown is correct. 
If anything changes or is incorrect  what to do next
If any of the details in the personal details confirmation are incorrect, or have 
changed up to the policy start date, you need to tell us by 3 October 2020. If you 
dont tell us about something thats incorrect or wrong by 3 October 2020, we may 
have to cancel the policy or be unable to pay a claim.
I realise Miss A says she did not realise she had any information to disclose when applying 
for the cover, but she was given an opportunity to revisit her answers before the policy 
started  and as Ive said above, I consider that Miss A ought to have answered differently. 
In my view, I believe suffering from one of the listed symptoms (a lump or growth) and 
seeking medical advice specifically about that symptom only three months prior to the 
application is something that Miss A should have recalled, had she applied reasonable care. 
I appreciate Miss As GP agreed to an addendum to the March and September 2020 
records. However, that does not alter the wording of the question. Miss A takes the view that 
the relevance of the record was that she did not receive a definitive diagnosis of a lump and 
therefore it was reasonable to not give a positive answer to the question. I dont disagree 
that Miss A was not diagnosed with a lump. No firm diagnosis was given in the notes and the 
addendum reiterates as such. But the question didnt ask about diagnoses. 
I must be fair to both parties, and the duty on an applicant is to answer a question to the best 
of their knowledge or belief, providing it is neither unclear nor ambiguous. And this question 
was clear; it didnt ask Miss A about a diagnosis of a muscle sprain, it asked her if she had a 
lump or growth in the last five years (and/or for which she saw a doctor, nurse or health 
professional about)  and she did. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. Under relevant law (applying from 2013 
and so at the time Miss A and Mr S sought their cover), on consumer disclosures, an insurer 
only has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by that person before a 
consumer insurance contract was entered into for qualifying misrepresentations. 
What that means is if (a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation; and b) if the insurer shows that 
without the misrepresentation, it would have entered into the contract on different terms. A 
qualifying misrepresentation must be classed as either deliberate/reckless or otherwise 
careless.
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it wouldnt have been able to offer cover at all, it can void the policy.
In my view Miss As actions fall within the careless category, and that she made a mistake 
or oversight resulting from a lack of care rather than any intent to deceive Zurich. Careless 
misrepresentation is set out as anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent 
mistake, to serious negligence. I believe Miss As failure to answer at least the first question 
positively sits within that band.  I also recognise the comments from Miss As nurse which seek to qualify how Miss A was 
treated as if she had a muscle strain, because the GP should otherwise have referred her. 
I dont doubt that. But not knowing what the cause of a symptom could be or a lack of action 
on the part of the GP (if this was the case) does not mean I can disregard what Miss A was 
asked. Insurers ask questions about an applicants health to assess the risk of offering 
insurance for common critical illnesses, and it relied on accurate answers. 
Zurich has provided underwriting guidance to confirm that had it known Miss A had sought 
advice about a lump or growth which remained undiagnosed (and Miss As addendum 
confirms that there was no diagnosis of lump or otherwise), it would have required further 
medical evidence about that. It would mean postponing the application until Miss A had been 
able to have the lump examined and investigated (as it persisted). Sadly, she wasnt able to 
do in March or September 2020 at telephone appointments held because of the onset of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Mr S was asked to respond separately in respect of his cover with Zurich. But it was 
otherwise the correct approach by Zurich to write to Miss A voiding her policy, because its 
underwriting guidance shows it could not have insured her until it had confirmation of a 
diagnosis or some other conclusion as to the cause of her symptom of the lump on her leg.   
I recognise Miss A said her diagnosis was a muscle strain, but the medical records dont say 
that. Her addendum of 17 March 2020 doesnt say that either. I believe it is a fair and 
objective assessment to describe the swelling on Miss As leg as a lump, where this same 
terminology was used by her treating consultant. Since that matter remained unresolved at 
the commencement of cover on 4 August 2020, Zurich couldnt have insured Miss A. 
I also know Miss A has referred to innocent misrepresentation, and specifically how she 
feels this best describes her actions. I recognise that guidance on misrepresentation issued 
by the ABI Code of Practice on Misrepresentation provides categorisation for three 
outcomes - innocent, careless and deliberate or reckless. The Code explains how innocent 
misrepresentation will be based on one of three typical circumstances, that the question was 
unclear, it did not apply to the facts in question or it was reasonable for the customer to have 
overlooked it  such as a childhood ailment.  
But, the relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts (which came into force 
before Miss A and Mr S applied for their insurance) does not include an innocent category. 
What the law requires is determination of whether there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation  meaning the consumer has made a misrepresentation and it would have 
affected the terms an insurer offered. I give greater weight to the application of the law in 
these circumstances. 
As Ive explained, I believe Miss A did make a misrepresentation as my view is she should 
have answered the first of the above questions differently. And, in any event, I dont believe 
that innocent misrepresentation applies here. The question was not ambiguous, it was 
relevant to the facts of Miss As symptoms, and whilst these werent diagnosed as any cause 
for the lump before 4 August 2020, I cant agree that it was reasonable to overlook it in the 
circumstances of a clear question which specifically referenced lumps or growths. 
 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Miss As position, I cannot uphold her and Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman