DRN-2222052
The complaint
Mr A says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was added to 
Mr As credit card account when he applied for the card. HSBC hasnt been able to confirm 
how it sold the credit card and PPI to Mr A, but Mr A says he applied for the credit card by 
post.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has Mr As credit card application, or any other documents he signed 
when the policy was sold. I dont think surprising or unreasonable, as the sale took place 
so long ago.
I acknowledge that Mr A says he didnt ask for the PPI, and he wasnt aware that it had 
been added to his account. But based on other credit card applications weve seen from 
around the time, and the picture weve built up about how HSBC usually sold PPI on 
credit cards at the time, I think its more likely than not that HSBC asked Mr A to indicate 
whether he wished to take PPI. And I think he decided to take it, knowing that he had a 
choice.
If Mr As told us he applied for the credit card by post. I think its unlikely that hed have 
had any direct contact with HSBC about the application, or received any advice from 
HSBC about the PPI. This means HSBC wasnt responsible for checking that the cover 
was suitable for Mr A. But it did have a responsibility to provide Mr A with enough 
information to enable him to decide for himself whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr As told us hed have been entitled to three months full pay, followed by three 
months half pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. And he says hed 
have been entitled to redundancy pay. If hed made a successful claim for sickness or 
injury under the policy, it would have helped with his monthly credit card repayments for 
up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than Mr As told us hed 
have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have provided the same benefit if hed 
made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr A received from his employer. So he could have used those 
to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive born in mind that Mr As told us that he had significant savings when he took out the 
PPI. But he hasnt been able to provide any evidence of those. And having the PPI would 
have meant that he wouldnt have had to use his savings to make his monthly credit card 
repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job. So he could have kept them, or 
used them to pay for other things. And although Mr As mentioned that family would have 
helped him financially if necessary, circumstances can change. So I cant be sure that 
Mr As family would have been in a position to help him if the need had arisen. So taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mr A.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that Mr A chose to take out the policy. So he appears to 
have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that so many years 
later. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions or limitations  for example provisions about unusual employment 
situations or existing medical conditions. 
The policy was competitively priced and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr A 
couldnt afford it. The premiums for the PPI would have shown on Mr As credit card 
statements. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted 
the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr A would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still 
have taken out the policy. This means I dont think hes lost out as a result of anything 
HSBC may have done wrong. So I cant fairly uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman