DRN-3140140
The complaint
Mr C complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) has recorded a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud prevention database.
What happened
Mr C explains that in September 2020 he attempted to obtain information from Equifax about 
his credit record by registering for an online account. He was unhappy to be told that his 
account was blocked due to suspected fraud and that a marker had been registered at 
CIFAS. He didnt want to provide all the identification required and complained. He tried to 
access his account again in March 2021 and a further marker was added. The marker 
initially affected his ability to get a financial product.
Equifax said it hadnt made a mistake. It suspected fraud and had applied a protective 
marker at CIFAS. This shouldnt affect Mr Cs ability to access financial products although 
further checks might be needed. It issued final responses to his complaint and in the latest 
one dated 25 May 2021 said that in addition to providing the identification it would now need 
to speak to him to confirm the details. It said it apologised for any inconvenience but that it 
wanted to make sure it didnt provide a credit report to the wrong person.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that we arent the 
regulator and so dont have a role in setting processes. It was a matter for Equifax to decide 
what information it needed to verify a persons identity. He said it was in Mr Cs interests that 
security checks are reinforced to reduce the likelihood of personal information being seen by 
someone who wasnt entitled to it. Mr C had challenged this through other credit reference 
agencies where he said he hadnt been required to provide photographic identification to get 
access. But again, it was a matter for Equifax to decide what it needed.
Equifax had recorded a victim of impersonation marker at CIFAS. This was put in place to 
protect him and the CIFAS website stated in relation to this that: 
This warning will have been placed by one of the organisations that uses Cifas to protect 
your identity. The warning is there to make it clear you are the genuine, innocent party, and 
that you have been (or suspect you may be) the victim of an identity theft.
Any organisation that subsequently receives that warning will see the phrase Cifas  Do 
Not Reject  Validation Required. It reminds them that extra precautions must be taken to 
ensure that the application or facility is genuine, protecting you from further fraud. A Victim 
of Impersonation warning remains in place for 13 months from the date of submission.
Our investigator said that there could be a number of reasons why a fraudster might want to 
access information from a credit record. The impact of such a marker wasnt expected to be 
negative but to protect fraudulent access and applications. And it seems that a different 
financial business may had misread this. 
Mr C didnt agree and said that he wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
He said that he didnt trust his information with Equifax and referred to media reports about 
a past data breach. Given this he couldnt see how it had the audacity to add the marker. 
He said that the utility bills he sent were more than adequate and that he had disputed the 
marker through another credit reference agency. He wanted to know what role this service 
had if we sided with big companies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be looking at any past general actions of Equifax and which arent the subject of this 
complaint. And I dont have evidence that Equifax didnt keep Mr Cs information secure. In 
contrast I am really looking at the impact of its security checks now which Mr C says are too 
stringent when applied to him. I appreciate how distressed Mr C has been about Equifaxs 
approach and that he cant understand why it wont remove the marker.
Our investigator is right to say that we dont regulate financial businesses and we provide 
informal dispute resolution. So, I wouldnt tell Equifax how to operate its processes generally, 
but I can look here at whether they unreasonably affected Mr C.
Im satisfied that Equifax had a basis for concern about the original application. I dont think 
its response that it wanted to confirm that it was Mr C making the application to be 
unreasonable. And in making the application I think Mr C was fairly subject to its processes. 
The issue was photo identification and while on one hand I understand Mr Cs reluctance to 
provide this, on the other I can see why Equifax needed this noting this is commonly used by 
financial businesses to verify identity. 
In the first complaint response in November 2020 it gave Mr C the impression that a different 
credit reference agency where he did have an account could dispute this marker for him. 
Hes shown some correspondence with a different credit reference agency about this in May 
2021. But it seems that Equifax had heightened its requirements having received a further 
application in March 2021. And it set this out in its response to his complaint about what 
happened in May 2021.
The protective marker, as our investigator set out, is designed to flag a concern that Mr C 
had or may have been the victim of identity theft. The intention was clearly not to affect      
Mr Cs access to financial products although further checks might be required. And so, if this 
led to a different business declining an account at first then this isnt something Equifax 
could fairly be responsible for.
I know Mr C is going to be very disappointed when I say that for the reasons Ive given I 
wont be asking Equifax to do anything more. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains 
free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman