DRN-3858174
The complaint
Ms A and Ms C complain that Trussle Lab Ltd trading as Trussle delayed processing their 
mortgage application causing them to miss out on a preferential rate.
What happened
Ms A and Ms C spoke to a mortgage adviser at Trussle on 6 May 2022 and agreed which 
mortgage to apply for. They discussed their concern that interest rates were going up and 
sent in their supporting documents that day.
On 10 May 2022 Trussle informed Ms A and Ms C that they were missing a copy of one of 
their bank statements to show proof of income. Ms A provided this around half an hour later.
That same day the lender Ms A and Ms C planned to apply to informed Trussle at 15:00 that 
it was going to withdraw the mortgage product with the rate that Ms A and Ms C had 
intended to apply for, and that any applications needed to be submitted by 17:00 that day.
When Ms A and Ms C requested an update from their mortgage adviser the next day they 
were initially told that she would prepare the application for submission and that a different 
mortgage adviser would be taking over. But later that day Ms A and Ms Cs new mortgage 
adviser introduced himself and explained the mortgage product was no longer available. A 
new mortgage product was recommended with a different lender. This mortgage application 
was submitted on 13 May 2022 and a mortgage offer was issued on 19 May 2022.
Unfortunately, this mortgage product had a higher interest rate than the one they had initially 
intended on applying for.
Ms A and Ms C complained that Trussle ought to have identified sooner that it didnt have all 
the necessary documentation from them. They think if Trussle had acted as quickly as it said 
it would then they would have been able to apply for the initial mortgage recommended.
Trussle didnt uphold their complaint - it said it did act quickly and that the lenders decision 
to remove the mortgage product was out of its control.
When Ms A and Ms C brought their complaint to our service the investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. They thought that whilst Trussle could have been clearer about some of its 
internal timescales, it hadnt caused any unreasonable delay to the application. They thought 
the initial mortgage advisor could have said that the rate wasnt available any longer when 
they contacted Ms A and Ms C on 11 May 2022 but that this was clarified by the second 
adviser later that day.
Ms A and Ms C didnt agree with these findings. They provided screenshots of the 
timescales on Trussles website and said they shouldve heard back about the missing 
documentation by 8 May 2022. Ms A and Ms C added that Trussle shouldve told them about 
the 17:00 applications deadline on the mortgage product they intended to apply for (on 
10 May 2022), so they could apply directly before the deadline if Trussle wasnt able to apply 
in time on their behalf.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration by an ombudsman. I issued my 
provisional decision on 14 November 2022. Here I explained I intended to uphold this 
complaint in part because whilst I agreed Trussle progressed Ms A and Ms Cs mortgage 
application within a reasonable timescale, I thought there was a loss of expectation due to 
the inaccurate information it gave them.
Trussle accepted my provisional decision, but Ms A and Ms C didnt respond by the deadline 
set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has been provided in response to my provisional decision and so my 
findings remain the same.
In terms of the progression of Ms A and Ms Cs initially intended mortgage application, 
Trussle informed them that it was missing a copy of Ms As bank statements showing proof 
of income within four days of the initial submission  and within two working days. Trussle 
has explained this is within its internal expectations as anything received after 15:00 is 
treated as being received on the next working day  here Monday 9 May 2022 giving it 48 
hours from then to take the next step, which it did.
Ms A and Ms C have provided a screenshot showing Trussles website says our working 
hours are 9am to 8pm on weekdays and 10am to 4pm on weekends. And that once 
documents have been submitted it will take 24 hours on average but can take up to 2 days 
depending on your situation to contact them if they need any extra information. I agree that 
this suggests Trussle will progress their application more quickly than it did.
However, I dont think this means that Trussle ought necessarily to have been able to submit 
the application by 17:00 on 10 May 2022. This is because:
Its not unreasonable for Trussle to have reduced services operating on weekends or 
to have cut-off times.
Ms A and Ms C contributed to the delay in Trussle being able to submit their 
application by providing the wrong bank statements.
The lender introduced the deadline at short notice and the timescales in the 
circumstances are very tight. So, theres no guarantee that Trussle wouldve been 
able to submit the application on 10 May 2022 even if it had contacted Ms A and 
Ms C sooner for the additional information.
Whilst it would have been helpful for Trussle to have taken steps to prioritise impacted 
customers or speed up its processes when it became aware of the lenders plans to 
withdraw the mortgage product in order to meet the deadline, in all the circumstances I dont 
think it would be fair to say it failed in its obligations by not doing so.
Similarly, there was no requirement to inform Ms A and Ms C about the information it 
received from the lender on the same day it received this notice. The mortgage market was 
changing very quickly at the time, with multiple lenders withdrawing interest rate products at 
very short notice. Here, there was only a two-hour window between Trussle being informed 
of the withdrawal of the product Ms A and Ms C wanted and the deadline for completed 
applications  and it was during that window that Trussle received the final documents it needed from Ms A and Ms C.
But I do think it was misleading for Ms A and Ms Cs initial mortgage adviser to tell them on 
11 May 2022 that they would prepare their application for submission when they were 
already aware (or ought to have been) that the mortgage product was no longer available. I 
think this error and Trussles advertised timescales led to a loss of expectation for Ms A and 
Ms C, and I accept it would have been stressful and upsetting to learn they would need to 
apply for a mortgage at a higher rate than expected. 
Putting things right
I think Trussle should pay Ms A and Ms C a total of £150 compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Trussle Lab Ltd pay Ms A and Ms C a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman