DRN-4462255
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complaints that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have 
declined a claim they made on Mr Js life insurance policy. 
The estate is represented by Mrs J. Mrs Js daughter acts as her representative in the 
complaint, but Ill refer to submissions as being made by Mrs J.   
What happened
Mrs J claimed on the late Mr Js life insurance following his death. The policy was taken out 
in 2014. The claim was declined because Legal and General said that Mr J had answered a 
question about his alcohol intake incorrectly. And they considered this to be careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to decline the claim, cancel the policy and 
refund the premiums.
Mrs J made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld. She thought Legal and General had acted reasonably, based on 
the questions Mr J was asked and the available medical information.
Mrs J didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to make a decision. In summary, she didnt 
think that the medical evidence supported that Mr J had been advised to reduce his alcohol 
intake. She felt that this was an assumption and noted that Legal and General hadnt asked 
Mr J what his alcohol intake was in units on the application form. So, I need to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this complaint. I empathise with what Mrs J has 
said and would like to offer my condolences to Mrs J and her family.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive also taken into 
account the relevant Code of Practice for managing claims for Life Insurance Products. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered questions about his alcohol intake on the application 
form. 
Mr J was asked: 
During a typical week, how many alcoholic drinks do you have? For example, a drink 
is a glass of wine or a glass or bottle of beer. 
Mr J answered 14. 
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount 
of alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
Mr J answered no to this question. 
Legal and General have provided evidence from Mr Js medical history. Theres a note from 
January 2010 which records Mr Js alcohol intake as 100 units per week. The more detailed 
note confirms this and there is a comment which says, patient advised about alcohol. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude that Mr J was advised to 
reduce his alcohol consumption during this appointment. I accept that the notes dont 
specifically say that Mr J was advised to reduce his consumption. However, I dont think 
thats an unreasonable conclusion to draw in the circumstances. 
The NHS recommends that people drink no more than 14 units of alcohol per week on a 
regular basis. Given that Mr J had disclosed that his alcohol intake was significantly higher, I 
think its most likely that Mr J was told to reduce his intake. That would be consistent with 
NHS guidelines and other relevant guidance, such as the NICE (National Institute for Care 
and Excellence) guidelines. 
Ive also considered what I think is other relevant evidence from Mr Js medical records, 
although it post-dates the application. Theres a further note from October 2018 which 
records Mr Js alcohol use as 100 units per week and says that it is over the recommended 
sensible limits. Theres also a further note in June 2020 where alcohol intake is recorded as 
60 units a week. A consultants letter from July 2020 also records Mr Js consumption as 100 
units per week. When he applied for the policy Mr J disclosed drinking 14 alcoholic drinks in 
a typical week (which amounts to 14 glasses of wine or beer). 
Ive taken into account the other information Ive been provided with, including that Mr J led a 
normal life with a perfect attendance record at work. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on the available medical information and draw 
the conclusions they did.   
Legal and General has provided underwriting evidence which shows that if Mr J had 
accurately disclosed information about his alcohol intake, they wouldnt have offered him a 
policy. This means Im satisfied that Mr Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Legal and General has said Mr Js misrepresentation was careless. I agree that it was 
careless because I think its most likely the misrepresentation result from insufficient care 
such as an oversight, a mistake or negligence.As Im satisfied that this was a careless misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions Legal 
and General can take in accordance with CIDRA. It says that if a policy wouldnt have been 
offered, they are entitled to avoid the policy and return the premiums paid. They are also 
entitled to treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal 
with any claims. Thats what Legal and General have done. So, I think thats reasonable and 
in line with the remedy set out in CIDRA.
I know that my decision will come as a significant disappointment to Mrs J, and Im sorry to 
hear about the financial impact this will have on her and her ability to retain the family home. 
However, having carefully reviewed all the evidence, I cant fairly conclude that Legal and 
General has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman