DRN-2893920
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains that National Savings and Investments havent paid the full
amount of Mr Js premium bonds to the estate and they also complain of poor customer
service in trying to resolve the issue.
What happened
Mrs J is the sole executor of the estate of Mr J and she has brought this complaint to this
service on behalf of the estate. Mr J passed away in 2007. In 2020 Mrs J discovered a group
of premium bonds which belonged to Mr J and contacted National Savings and Investments
(NS&I) to have these repaid to her but NS&I had said that these were repaid to their son in
March 2011.
Mrs J and her son contacted NS&I again as they disputed that the bonds had been repaid
and wanted proof that the bonds were repaid to their son. Their son then rang NS&I to make
a complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr J.
NS&I did not uphold the complaint. They responded to the estate of Mr J and said that there
was a warrant of £497 which was paid to the son of Mr J in March 2011 and it was banked in
June 2011. They also said that as the repayment was processed in 2011, they were unable
to provide further details in regards to the repayment, such as where the warrant was
encashed. In addition, they said due to the length of time which has passed, they are also
unable to locate the repayment or death claim documents.
Mrs J said she was the sole executor of the estate and she should have been entitled to the
proceeds of the bonds and not her son. Mr Js son contacted his bank and asked them to try
and trace the payment which NS&I said they made, but the bank was unable to trace the
payment. The estate of Mr J thought that the warrant could have been sent to another
person who matched Mr Js sons name. The estate of Mr J brought their complaint to our
service. While Mrs J spoke to our investigator, she also added to the complaint that she was
unhappy with the service from NS&I. She said that NS&I initially refused to discuss the
matter with her on behalf of the estate of Mr J and that her and her son had sent a lot of
communication to NS&I without proof that the bonds had been paid.
Our investigator upheld the estate of Mr Js complaint. She said that although she was
satisfied that NS&I had paid out the funds to Mr Js son, if Mrs J wanted to get that money off
her son as being the executor of the estate then this would cause her inconvenience. She
awarded the estate of Mr J £200 for the inconvenience and because NS&I didnt speak to
Mrs J on behalf of the estate initially.
NS&I did not accept the view of the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed
by an Ombudsman. They said that NS&I are not obliged to keep records for longer than
seven years and with the transaction taking place in 2011 then they had limited records of
what happened. They explained that although Mr Js bank had no record of the warrant
being paid into his account, that when NS&I had made the payment of £497 they had also
reissued a £50 prize win from August 2007, so if both warrants were paid into the account at
the same time, the value on his statement may be £547 and not £497 which is the payment
Mr Js son told the bank to trace.
In response to them paying out Mr Js son instead of Mrs J, NS&I said that they will have
carried out the instructions on the death claim form with the death certificate which they
would expect to have been completed accurately.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on a timeline of events and as a long period of time has passed
since NS&I say they paid out the warrant, a lot of the information Id expect them to hold is
no longer available. Thats not surprising given the time thats passed here and what the
relevant rules around keeping data and information say. So Ive looked at all of the
information available to me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and
when, on balance of all the evidence here.
I am satisfied that NS&I have paid the warrant and this has been encashed by Mr Js son. I
say this as the screenshots Ive been provided by from NS&I show the payment date of 8
March 2011 and the payee shows the name of Mr Js son. It also shows it was sent by post
to the address of Mrs J (but with her sons name). So Im not persuaded that the warrant was
intercepted by another person of the same name as Mr Js son. The screenshot also shows
a zero balance of the late Mr Js bond number which was queried. So Im persuaded that this
is because NS&I have paid the value of the bond and that the warrant was encashed. In
addition another screenshot shows the cheque number they sent and that this was paid by
NS&I on 3 June 2011. So all the evidence here points to the warrant being paid to Mr Js son
and encashed by him.
Ive then thought about the letter from Mr Js sons bank. The letter the estate of Mr J has
provided appears to show that the bank searched Mr Js sons account from 3 June 2011 to
30 September 2011 and there was no trace of the £497 that NS&I had said the warrant was
for. The estate of Mr J have indicated that this is proof that NS&I didnt make the payment
but Im not persuaded by this.
I say this for a number of different reasons. First of all Mr Js son couldve paid the warrant
into a different bank account or savings account then the one provided to this service. But
even if this was his only bank account at the time, the warrant was paid on 3 June 2011 so it
was likely deposited into the bank account at an earlier date than this as warrants do not
automatically clear into a bank account straight away as it would go through a clearing cycle,
similar to a cheque. NS&I have said they also reissued £50 winnings at the same time as the
£497 so if these warrants were paid into the bank account together then it could be £547
which would be the figure the bank needs to trace. Finally, Mr Js bank said on their letter
that they hold transactions for ten years, but details for transactions are only held for seven
years and for cheques it is six years. So Mr Js sons bank may not be able to trace the
transaction at all with it being paid as a warrant which is similar to a cheque.
Ive thought about what Mrs J has said about her being solely entitled to the warrant. Ive
seen evidence from NS&I that Mr Js son did contact them by phone to request the payment
of the warrant. But ultimately too long has passed for me to know exactly whats most likely
to have happened here and much of the evidence Id need is now unavailable because of
that. This means that I cant safely say one way or the other what led to NS&I paying the
warrant to Mrs Js son here, or whether or not they acted fairly in doing so. And based on
what I do have, I cant see anything that suggests that NS+I made a mistake when they didthis.
So although their attempts to trace the payment have been unsuccessful, NS&Is records do
suggest that the warrant was paid to their son, for the reasons Ive already given. I realise it
will have been frustrating being unable to trace the payment, but that doesnt mean I can say
that NS&I should be held responsible for this even if it is not clear why they were paid to him
as opposed to Mrs J.
Ive thought about what Mrs J has said about NS&I not being willing to discuss Mr Js
holdings with her initially. NS&I have provided a recording of a phone call she had with one
of the call handlers at NS&I. While I can understand why Mrs J has thought they werent
willing to discuss the issue with her, Im not persuaded that NS&I have treated her unfairly
and Ill explain why.
Mrs J gives the call handler some bond numbers originally. But then she talks about some of
these being for her children and how herself and Mr J had invested in premium bonds for
pocket money for the children and when they were born. Im persuaded that the call handler
initially thought that these werent in Mrs Js name or Mr Js name.
When Mrs J gives him a reference number and the call handler verifies the details with Mrs
J, he was able to discuss the bonds with her. But he explains that as she isnt registered for
the online/telephone service then he is limited in what information he could give her. Mrs J
says that she doesnt own a computer but the call agent explains she would need to register
for the online/telephone service to fully talk about the holdings over the phone. So Im not
persuaded that NS&I were unreasonable here. The call agent was pleasant and tried to help
Mrs J with her query. At times there may have been a slight breakdown of communication
but I think this was down to the call handlers enthusiasm to explain to Mrs J their procedure.
Mrs J has given our service three numbers that she may have contacted NS&I from and I
asked NS&I to trace any calls which were made from these telephone numbers. But theyve
said the only call they could find was the aforementioned call. This did appear to be the initial
call which Mrs J referred to as Mrs J didnt say on the call shed spoken to anybody else
previously or had long waiting times/problems with previous call handlers. And they
discussed sending a death claim form to Mrs J (the call handler didnt have access to the full
holdings as Mrs J wasnt registered for the telephone service, so I wouldnt expect him to
know at this point that Mr Js bonds had previously been paid). So Im persuaded that this is
the initial call Mrs J refers to. Mrs J has said her children have called NS&I when she was
too upset to speak to them but as Mrs J is the sole executor bringing the complaint on behalf
of the estate of Mr J, I can only consider if NS&I had treated her fairly here and for the
reasons Ive already given Im persuaded they did.
Mrs J has also said she had sent several letters and while Ive noted that several letters
have been sent over the course of a prolonged period, Im satisfied that NS&I have treated
Mrs J fairly on behalf of the estate of Mr J and explained that due to the pandemic there
would be delays in responding to her. Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that the
estate of Mr J has suffered poor customer service for the reasons Ive already given. So it
follows that I dont intend to ask NS&I to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NS&I did not respond to my provisional decision. Mrs J, on behalf of the estate of 
Mr J, did not accept the provisional decision and raised a number of points. In summary she 
asked if I had read all of the letters and listened to all of the calls shes made, she said the 
cheque must have went to a different person who shared her sons name and she felt NS&I 
should pay her at least the £200 our investigator had initially awarded her. Mrs J also sent us 
the grant of probate again and said this proves she should have received the warrant.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate of Mr J has made a number of points to both NS&I and this service and Ive 
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. Ive listened to the phone calls that 
NS&I have sent me. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Our investigator has explained to Mrs J there are certain pieces of information shes given us 
which I cant consider as part of this complaint such as letters Mrs Js children had sent to 
NS&I. 
Ive considered what Mrs J has said regarding what her sons bank manager has told her. 
But as I mentioned in my provisional decision - Mr Js son couldve paid the warrant into a 
different bank account or savings account then the one provided to this service. But even if 
this was his only bank account at the time, the warrant was paid on 3 June 2011 so it was 
likely deposited into the bank account at an earlier date than this as warrants do not 
automatically clear into a bank account straight away as it would go through a clearing cycle,
similar to a cheque. This could have been as early as late May. NS&I have said they also 
reissued £50 winnings at the same time as the £497 so if these warrants were paid into the 
bank account together then it could be £547 which would be the figure the bank needs to 
trace. Finally, Mr Js bank said on their original letter that they hold transactions for ten 
years, but details for transactions are only held for seven years and for cheques it is six 
years. So Mr Js sons bank may not be able to trace the transaction at all with it being paid 
as a warrant which is similar to a cheque.
I also explained in my provisional decision that NS&Is systems shows the warrant was sent 
by post to the address of Mrs J (but with her sons name). So Im not persuaded that the 
warrant was intercepted by another person of the same name as Mr Js son.
Ive seen the grant of probate which Mrs J has provided, and Ive thought about what Mrs J 
has said about her being solely entitled to the warrant. But, as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, Ive seen evidence from NS&I that Mr Js son did contact them by phone to request 
the payment of the warrant. But ultimately too long has passed for me to know exactly whats 
most likely to have happened here and much of the evidence Id need is now unavailable 
because of that. This means that I cant safely say one way or the other what led to NS&I 
paying the warrant to Mrs Js son here, or whether or not they acted fairly in doing so. And 
based on what I do have, I cant see anything that suggests that NS&I made a mistake when 
they did this.
I know that Mrs J thinks I should award her at least £200 compensation that our investigator 
suggested originally. But I have conducted my own impartial investigation into what 
happened here. And in summary, Mrs Js response hasnt changed my view and my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs J will be 
disappointed with the decision on behalf of the estate of Mr J, but I hope she understands 
my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman