DRN-3132335
The complaint
Miss Y complains about a personal loan she had with Lendable Ltd. She said Lendable 
shouldnt have lent to her as the loan wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss Y took out a personal loan with Lendable for £5,000, there was a loan 
fee of £350, meaning in total she borrowed £5,350. The loan was for a period of 48 months, 
repayable at £144.84 a month. Miss Y said she was only working 12 hours a week and the 
remainder of her income came from benefits. She said Lendable didnt ask to see proof of 
her income and didnt establish her financial situation before offering her the loan. She said 
shes struggled to make the repayments as she had other debts. Miss Y said Lendable 
shouldnt have lent to her and she complained to them.
Lendable said theyd carried out credit affordability checks using debt to income analysis. 
Miss Y had said her monthly income was £943 and this had been verified with a credit 
bureau. Lendable said there wasnt any indication from these checks that Miss Ys income 
also consisted of benefit payments. And from checking Miss Ys credit history there wasnt 
any  evidence that showed she wasnt managing her finances. Lendable said on the checks 
theyd made the loan seemed affordable and so theyd lent to Miss Y. 
Miss Y wasnt happy with Lendables response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the checks made by Lendable werent proportionate considering the 
amount of the loan and the time period Miss Y would have been indebted for. She said 
Lendable had used data from credit bureaus but hadnt verified this information with Miss Y 
to establish her financial situation. She said if they had they would have seen the loan wasnt 
affordable for Miss Y. To put things right she said Lendable should:
add up the total amount of money Miss Y received as a result of having been
given the loan. The repayments Miss Y made should be deducted from this
amount; 
a) if this results in Miss Y having paid more than they received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement);
b) if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss Y; and 
to remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ys credit file relating to
the loan.
Lendable didnt agree and said that theyd used credit bureau data that gave the highest 
confidence rating and from the checks they made the loan was affordable for Miss Y. The 
complaint has been referred for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what are reasonable and proportionate checks. But CONC 5.2A.20R 
provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a creditworthiness assessment and the 
steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on 
sufficient information and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means Lendable 
in lending to Miss Y are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so Lendable needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss Y. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Miss Y.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether Lendable in lending to Miss Y had been thorough 
in the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in 
deciding to lend to her. The loan Miss Y applied for was for £5,000 over 48 months. Lendable said they confirmed 
through the data supplied by the credit bureau that Miss Ys monthly income was £943. So, I 
think Miss Ys income was at a lower level in consideration to the amount she was borrowing 
over the time the loan was repayable for. 
Lendable said they consider debt against income and had reviewed Miss Ys credit history, 
which showed she was managing her finances well. But I can see from Miss Ys credit file 
that she had an unsecured loan that shed recently taken out, May 2019 for £1,000. She also 
had two credit cards. Although the balance of both was within Miss Ys credit limit, I can see 
that shed had the credit limit increased for one from £800 to £1200 in May 2019. And the 
other from £450 to £950 in July 2019. Miss Y also had a couple of mail order accounts, 
again this were being well managed, but I can see in May 2019 shed had the credit 
available for one of her mail order accounts increased from £2,000 to £3,750. Lendable said 
at the time of the loan Miss Ys indebtedness was £2,702. But with the recent credit 
increases Miss Y had increased her credit commitments to a potential £6,800 and with the 
new loan this increased to £12,150 inclusive of the loan fee of £350.
I dont think, based on what Lendable had available that I can fairly say that Lendable saw 
enough to reasonably be satisfied that Miss Y was going to be able to make the repayments 
for this loan in a sustainable way. I acknowledge that Lendable disagrees  it felt its checks 
were proportionate and that it saw enough to agree to lend this loan.  But given the recent 
increases in Miss Ys credit Lendable should have carried out a complete review of her 
finances and done more to verify her financial circumstances. Lendable didnt do this. So, 
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown
Our investigator asked Miss Y to provide her bank statements for the three months prior to 
the loan being applied for. Ive looked at the statements and these show Miss Y had an 
average monthly salary income of £523.45. The remainder of her income consisted of 
benefits, a weekly amount of £20.70, and monthly benefit payments of £107 in May 2019, 
and £296.38 in June 2019. I cant see any monthly benefit payment for July 2019. In my 
opinion this would equate to an average monthly income of around £748 per month, 
considerably less than the amount used by Lendable in their assessment.  And without Miss 
Ys monthly benefit, given none was received in July 2019,  this would reduce further to 
around £612. I can also see Miss Y was making regular payments referenced as bill 
payments which shes said was for money she owed to family for money shed borrowed 
and for catalogue purchases, a commitment that wouldnt be reflected in the data provided 
by the credit bureaus. There are also some small gambling transactions and several cash 
withdrawals that I think required further investigation, but I didnt see any evidence of 
compulsive spending. Also taking Miss Ys commitments for everyday living, for food and 
utilities, I dont think she was in a financial position to afford any additional borrowing. 
So, I dont think Lendable carried out enough checks to determine Miss Ys financial 
situation as while the loan might have appeared to have been affordable, I dont think it was 
sustainable.  
 
I dont think Lendable focussed on Miss Y as a borrower and her specific circumstances. I 
dont think they carried out enough checks to determine whether Miss Y could sustain the 
repayments. So, I think they acted irresponsibly in providing Miss Y with a loan. 
  
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isntstraightforward. And Miss Y has had the loan in question and used the funds. In these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I ask Lendable Ltd to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Ys loan account from when it was 
opened; 
treat any payments that Miss Y has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if 
this results in Miss Y having paid more than what they were initially lent, then any 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Miss Y plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement; 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable Ltd should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss Y and;
remove any adverse information on Miss Ys credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Lendable 
Ltd must give Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this decision. And ask Lendable Ltd to put things right for Miss Y as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman