DRN-3598421
The complaint
Mr F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a package 
bank account.
What happened
Mr F held a fee free account from 2002 to October 2010 when he upgraded the account to a 
fee-paid Advantage Gold account. This account was migrated to a Select Platinum account 
in June 2015. 
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Fs complaint about the sale of his Advantage Gold 
account but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr F disagreed this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr F was mis-sold the Advantage Gold account. I will 
explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Mr F has told us he called the bank at the time he was sold his Gold account to extend his 
overdraft limit. At this time, he was advised to take the Advantage Gold account to save 
money on his overdraft fees. I think its likely the benefits of the account such as the interest 
free overdraft up to £100 were discussed with Mr F but I havent seen any evidence that 
shows a tailored recommendation was provided to him. 
I dont think NatWest provided a recommendation to Mr F to take the Advantage Gold 
account, so it didnt have to make sure the account was right for him. But it did have to give 
Mr F enough information so he could decide if it met his circumstances at the time.
As explained above the Advantage Gold account came with an interest free overdraft up to 
£100. The benefit was not available under a fee-free account. Considering Mr F was calling 
NatWest to extend his overdraft facility I think its likely he intended to use his overdraft, and 
so would have been able to take advantage of this benefit. The discussion around the 
interest free overdraft offered by the Gold Account appears to be suitable under the 
circumstances.
Mr F has said that although he used some of the other benefits available under the Gold 
account this does not mean he wanted to take it out. But Mr F has still used many of the 
benefits that came with the account including the travel insurance and  mobile phone 
insurance . So, I think he would have been aware of the other benefits the account offered 
and found the account useful.
The migration of the Advantage Gold account to the Select Platinum account was an 
administrative task NatWest undertook at the time for all its Advantage Gold account 
customers. Business are entitled to remove and change its product offerings at any time.
NatWest have provided a copy of the type of letter it sent customers at the time of the 
migration. The letter gave notice of the change and explained the option to cancel the 
account. I think this was fair at the time and a decision for Mr F to consider. It was also 
possible for Mr F to cancel his account at any time if he thought the benefits no longer suited 
his circumstances.
Mr F has further explained that the fee for the account changed over the years without 
notice. While I accept the fee may have changed several times this was not unusual within 
the banking industry and businesses are free to make business decisions on how much they 
charge for their products and services. Mr F had the option to cancel his account at any time. 
But he continued with his account, so I think he still wanted it.
In summary, I think Mr F chose to take and keep his Advantage Gold account. Its likely he 
made this decision based on his circumstances at the time and he seems to have made use 
of the benefits that came with the account. So, I dont think it was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman