DRN-2800391
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited has dealt with her home 
insurance claim for subsidence damage.
What happened
This case dates back to 2010, when a utility company dug a trench alongside Mrs Ds house. 
This caused extensive damage to the house, and Aviva accepted a claim. The matter went 
on for some years, and was finally resolved following a decision by an ombudsman at this 
service of 18 January 2019. That decision gave Mrs D a number of options, and she chose 
the option to receive a cash settlement so that the works could be carried out by a contractor 
of her choice. The ombudsman pointed out that, if she accepted that option, Mrs D 
understood that if her contractors carried out repairs to her property which werent effective 
or long lasting, or they caused damage, then Aviva wouldnt be liable. Mrs D duly had works 
carried out, which included partial underpinning. 
In July 2019 Mrs D reported further cracking/movement and instructed a firm of surveyors 
who reported, following two site inspections in November 2019 and in February 2020 that 
there was further cracking which appeared to be developing further. At that stage it was 
agreed that the position would be looked at further after a few months. Following Mrs Ds 
further referral of the matter to this service it was noted that Aviva had agreed to reconsider 
the matter, and the matter was left like that in March 2020.
Because of lockdown, there were problems with progressing the matter. Aviva instructed a 
surveying firm to carry out a distortion survey and this took several months to organise in 
part because the firm didnt receive the instructions. Avivas loss adjusters reported in 
February 2021, incorporating the distortion survey. They said that the current problems 
within the property were separate to the areas of previous subsidence. They further said that 
there was no evidence that, as Mrs D had said, the whole property was moving, but that 
there were displacements at first floor level to the front right and left hand bay windows 
which suggested that they were moving laterally. They said there was however some 
evidence of downward movement, albeit very slight, to the front elevation which suggested a 
minor escape of water from the front facing rainwater underground drainage services. Their 
recommendation was that the drains be surveyed and that the movement be investigated 
further.
Mrs D was reluctant to have any investigation of the drains carried out, as these had been 
repaired in the previous claim. Aviva offered to refer the matter to an independent engineer 
to carry out a further inspection and to give an opinion as to the cause of the current 
damage.
On referral to this service, and after review by our investigator, Aviva put forward the names 
of three independent contractors and Mrs D could select one. Mrs D didnt think any such 
referral would be independent. She believed the property needed full underpinning, as 
should have happened before. She further believed this service had all the information 
necessary to require Aviva to deal with the claim in that way.
Our investigator pointed out that there was no expert evidence recommending full 
underpinning and she said that Avivas offer to refer the matter to an independent engineer 
was reasonable. She reviewed the delay by Aviva in reinvestigating matters, and noted its 
offer of compensation of £100 which she said was reasonable.
Mrs D didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs D wants the matter to be finally resolved  I believe she would like 
to sell the property. However, it does appear that the previous subsidence repairs were 
effective, at least for the damage at the time. And, as our investigator and the previous 
ombudsman pointed out, because Mrs D accepted a cash settlement Aviva isnt liable for 
any problems which might have arisen out of these repairs, including the partial 
underpinning.
I think the matter needs to be looked at as if it were a fresh claim. The report by the loss 
adjusters with the distortion survey indicated that the present damage isnt linked to the 
previous claim or repairs, which I understand Mrs D agrees with. Their view was that it could 
be linked to an escape of water from the underground drainage services and recommended 
a survey of the drains.
Aviva has offered to get an independent review carried out by an engineer. It has 
recommended a suitable engineer who works for different loss adjusters. Mrs D doesnt 
believe such a report would be independent. She was given the choice of another couple of 
names, or for her to name an engineer herself. Bur she doesnt believe any further review is 
necessary. Mrs D believes the drains arent at fault as they were repaired in conjunction with 
the previous claim. She believes that because Aviva agreed the previous partial 
underpinning and that this is the problem, there should be a full underpinning, and would like 
a final decision from this service so she can proceed.
Whether a property should be underpinned, fully or partially is matter for expert evidence. 
Mrs D believes the partial underpinning wasnt appropriate although I should point out that 
that was done by her contractors following the cash settlement. I havent seen any expert 
evidence which supports the case for full underpinning. The last report from her surveyor 
advised waiting for a few months to look at the position further. He didnt put forward any 
further recommendations.
I think the evidence shows that this matter has to be investigated further so that a decision 
can be taken about how to proceed. Bearing in mind this is cracking/movement which has 
developed after the last repair, I think its too early to expect there to be a definitive decision 
without further investigation or monitoring. To that end I think that Avivas offer of an 
independent review is reasonable. If Mrs D is concerned about the independence of the 
engineer instructed I think it would be reasonable for her to insist that the engineer be 
appointed jointly between the parties, so that they report to both sides at once. And that she 
be given the opportunity to make her case to the engineer, with help from her surveyor if she 
wants it (though I cant say at this stage whether Aviva would fund any such expert input).
   In respect of the delay, though I note the difficulties in getting any contractor to visit after the 
March 2020 lockdown, I do think there was an unnecessary delay when the surveying firm 
apparently didnt receive instructions. But I do think the offer of £100 is reasonable in this 
respect. If this hasnt been paid and if Mrs D wishes to accept it she should contact Aviva 
directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman