DRN-3820034
The complaint
Mr M complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and their failure to process the 
original cheque he cashed in, which resulted in him needing to incur significant costs to 
obtain a replacement.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M deposited a cheque for payment into his account. But Mr M didnt 
receive the funds, or an update from RBS, for a significant period of time. So, he attended 
his local branch and he discovered the cheque had expired and so, hadnt been processed. 
Mr M was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M raised several complaints as the situation evolved. He was unhappy that RBS had 
failed to process the cheque within a reasonable amount of time, leading it to expire. He 
explained how this had left him needing to request a new cheque from the issuer, which was 
located abroad. And due to difficulties corresponding with the issuer, Mr M was forced to 
travel abroad to liaise with the issuer in person, made more difficult due to the travel 
restrictions put in place due to COVID-19. So, Mr M wanted to be reimbursed for the costs of 
this travel, an agent he instructed to assist him as well as being compensated for the time he 
was without the funds, which he had intended to use for investment purposes.
RBS responded and upheld Mr Ms complaint. They recognised they hadnt submitted Mr 
Ms cheque for transcription until May 2020, some five months after it had been received. 
And as the cheque was issued in November 2019, this meant the cheque had expired. And 
they recognised this had caused Mr M significant inconvenience, as hed needed to travel 
abroad to obtain a new one. So, they paid Mr M a total of £2,502.48 to cover his travel costs 
as well as the loss in exchange rate, as well as compensating him for the upset hed been 
caused.
Mr M was unhappy with this. Mr M wanted the fees of the agent he instructed to assist him to 
be covered by RBS, and he also wanted a payment to reflect the length of time hed been 
without access to the funds. As Mr M remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the payment 
RBS had already paid was a fair one, that adequately compensated Mr M. They didnt think 
RBS should cover the agent costs Mr M incurred, as it was Mr Ms own decision to instruct 
this agent without an agreement from RBS stating they would cover the costs of this. And 
they didnt think they had evidence to show Mr M suffered a financial loss as he was unable 
to evidence the investment he wouldve made, and the return it wouldve yielded.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think hed been adequately compensated for the time he was 
without the funds or the fact he missed out on an investment opportunity which he didnt 
think he was reasonably able to evidence. So, he wanted the complaint to be reconsidered.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention to 
uphold the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
RBS have accepted they made an error when processing Mr Ms original cheque. And they
accept this error led to the expiry of the cheque, requiring Mr M to obtain a new cheque from
the issuer directly. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this in any further details,
as Im satisfied RBS acted unfairly. Instead, Ive focused on the main points of contention,
which focus on what RBS should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what RBS should do to put things right, any award or direction I make
is intended to place Mr M back in the position he wouldve been, had RBS acted fairly in the
first instance.
In this situation, had RBS acted fairly, I think they wouldve processed the first cheque within
its expiry date, meaning Mr M wouldnt have needed to travel abroad to ensure he obtained
a new one. So, I think it follows that RBS should cover the costs of this travel which Im glad
to see they have done.
I also think RBS should cover the costs of any loss in exchange rate that may have occurred
and again, Im glad to see theyve done this while also absorbing any additional costs Mr M
incurred having the deposit the cheque again.
But I dont think RBS have compensated Mr M fairly for the fact he was without the funds for
a period of almost 22 months. Mr M says he intended to use the funds for investment
purposes, which I dont dispute. But the evidence Mr M has provided doesnt show what
investment that was for and what it wouldve returned in enough detail for me to consider this
aspect of the financial loss. So, I dont think RBS should pay Mr M for any financial loss that
relates to any profit he may or may not have made.
But crucially, I think Mr M lost the opportunity to use the funds as he wished, for an extensive
period of time. And our services standard approach is to ask a business to pay a customer
8% statutory interest for the amount of time they were without access to the funds, when 
they shouldnt have been.
In this situation, I can see RBS processed the second cheque in 17 days. So, I think its
reasonable for me to assume RBS could have, and should have, processed the first cheque
in the same period of time. Had they done so; I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr M
wouldve received the funds into his account on 3 February 2020, as he deposited the
cheque on 15 January 2020. So, I intend to direct RBS to pay Mr M 8% statutory interest on
the value of the cheque from 3 February 2020 until the date he finally received the funds on
17 November 2021, as I think this adequately compensates him for the time he was without
access to the cheque amount.
Ive also thought about the agent fees Mr M incurred trying to obtain a replacement cheque.
While I dont think he wouldve needed to do this had RBS acted fairly, I also need to ensure
any direction or award I make doesnt place Mr M in a position of betterment. And as part of
this consideration, I must consider what is fair to both parties as we are an independent and
impartial service.
I can see the fees Mr M incurred were substantial. And Mr M instructed the agent with theaim of receiving the replacement cheque without needing to travel, due to COVID
restrictions. But I dont think the restrictions in place were the fault, or responsibility, of RBS.
So, I dont think I can hold them accountable for this. I also cant see that RBS agreed to
cover the costs of the agent. Instead, they agreed to reasonable costs associated to Mr M
obtaining a replacement cheque. In this situation, I dont think the agent costs Mr M incurred
were reasonable and I think it was Mr Ms own decision to take this course of action without
prior agreement with RBS. So, I dont think RBS were responsible for Mr Ms decision to 
instruct an agent and dont intend to ask them to cover the costs of this.
Responses
Mr M responded to my provisional decision, saying he had no further comments to add. And 
RBS didnt respond to my provisional decision within the time frame provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. Neither party have provided 
me with any comments or information that would impact my original conclusions. So, I think 
RBS acted unfairly and I think they need to something more than they already have to 
reasonably compensate Mr M.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provision decision, any award or direction I make is intended to place 
Mr M back in the position he wouldve been had RBS acted fairly. And in this situation, I 
dont think the actions RBS have taken to resolve Mr Ms complaint take into consideration 
the length of time he was without the value of the cheque, meaning he was unable to use the 
funds however he saw fit during that period.
So, I think RBS should pay Mr M 8% statutory interest on the value of cheque from the date I 
think he shouldve reasonably received it to when he did. This falls in line with our services 
standard approach to similar situations where customers are left without access to their 
money due to an error by their bank, which RBS have already accepted in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Calculate and pay Mr M 8% statutory interest of the value of the cheque from 3 
February 2021 to 17 November 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman