DRN-3869085
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) wont allow her to change the date repayments are due on her catalogue shopping 
account. 
What happened
Miss F opened her Shop Direct catalogue shopping account in March 2020. Under the terms 
of the agreement, repayments were required every 28 days. In January 2021, Shop Direct 
changed the terms so that payments were required monthly. As part of the change, Miss F 
was allocated a fixed payment date of 26th of each month. 
Miss F requested the payment date be changed to one that was after shed been paid, as 
she was receiving late/missed payment administration fees. Shop Direct explained this 
wasnt possible and so Miss F raised a complaint. Shop Direct issued its final response in 
August 2022 and said that Miss F was given a fixed payment date and that isnt something it 
can change. Shop Direct offered Miss F access to its Customer Arrears Support Team if she 
was having difficulties keeping her account up to date. Shop Direct also explained that the 
administration fees it had applied to Miss Fs account had been applied correctly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.  
Unhappy with this Miss F brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and concluded that Shop Direct hadnt acted unfairly in refusing to 
change the payment. The investigator also said that the administration charges that had 
been applied were in line with the credit agreement Miss F signed. 
Miss F still disagreed and asked for the matter to be taken further. Therefore, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Shop Direct has provided an example of the notice that was issued to its consumers, 
advising of the change to monthly repayments. This explained the change from statements 
every 28 days to every calendar month and said the following regarding repayments: 
you will be sent a statement every month if there is a payment to be made. The statement 
will set out the minimum payment due for that month. The due date for payment, which is a 
fixed date every month, will be 20 days after the date of your statement and with each 
statement we will notify you of the payment due date.
Miss F isnt disputing that she was made aware she had been given the 26th as her fixed 
payment date for every month. Being allocated a fixed payment date is also in line with what 
was advised in the new terms and conditions. In addition, the terms and conditions dont 
have any provisions that detail the repayment date can be changed. Therefore, in providing 
Miss F a fixed date that she is required to make monthly repayments by, Shop Direct is 
acting in line with the terms and conditions. 
Shop Direct has explained that due to its current operating systems, it isnt able to facilitate 
Miss Fs request to change the payment due date. I fully understand Miss Fs reasons for 
wanting to change the repayment date on her account, this is not an unusual request. 
However, Shop Direct has provided a reasonable reason why it cant change the payment 
date. It is not always possible for a bank or finance provider to be able to assist with every 
request a consumer makes. 
I acknowledge Miss Fs frustrations that she is being charged fees as a result of not being 
able to change her payment date. However, not being able to change the payment due date 
doesnt mean Shop Direct has acted outside of the terms and conditions with regards to the 
administration charges its applied to Miss Fs account. 
I can see that following the investigators findings into the complaint, Miss F has raised 
concerns surrounding her ability to pay moving forward. This isnt something Ive considered 
as part of this complaint. If Miss F is experiencing difficulties, then she may want to contact 
Shop Direct to discuss this with it. I would remind Shop Direct of its obligation to treat Miss F 
with forbearance and due consideration if she is currently experiencing any financial 
difficulty. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint against Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as 
very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman