DRN-1724087
The complaint
Mr L and Miss D say Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough when they fell victim to a banking 
payment scam. They feel Monzo should have done more to prevent the payment going 
through and to recover the money from the bank used by the scammer.
What happened
On 13 February 2019 Mr L and Miss D made an online payment of £6,000 for a campervan 
theyd seen advertised on a website. They believed they were paying a genuine transport 
company, using a legitimate holding payment company, that would ship the campervan to 
the UK. 
When Mr L and Miss D didnt receive the campervan on 18 February 2019 as agreed and 
were unable to reach the seller or the holding company, they realised theyd made the 
payment to a scammer. Mr L and Miss D contacted Monzo immediately to explain what had 
happened and to see what it could do to help. Monzo contacted the scammers bank that 
same day to see if any of Mr L and Miss Ds money could be recovered and told Mr L and 
Miss D theyd update them within 20 days. 
When Mr L and Miss D didnt hear from Monzo by 11 March 2018, they got in touch to find 
out what was happening. Monzo chased the beneficiary bank that day but, unfortunately, it 
confirmed to Monzo that none of Mr L and Miss Ds money remained in the beneficiary 
account. 
Monzo apologised for not getting back to Mr and Miss D within 20 days as promised and 
paid them £40 as compensation. But it said it had done everything it could to help recover 
their money. 
Mr L and Miss D were unhappy with how Monzo handled things, so they complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. They didnt think Monzo should reasonably have been expected to identify the 
payment wasnt genuine. And they felt Monzo had done what it could to recover the money 
once it became aware of the fraud. They also felt that what Monzo had paid in compensation 
was appropriate, and that it didnt need to do any more.
Mr L and Miss D disagreed with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Monzo are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr L and Miss D when they transferred £6,000 or whether it should have done more than it 
did.
Im very sorry to see that Mr L and Miss D lost this money. But, having looked at the 
circumstances, I think Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave 
Mr L and Miss Ds account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds 
from the beneficiary bank. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse Mr L and Miss D for the 
money they lost. Ill explain why.Mr L and Miss D accept that they authorised the payment. Because of this, Monzo had an 
obligation to follow their instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully. In doing so, Ive looked at all of the previous transactions on 
the account. But, since the account was only opened in December 2018, its difficult to say 
the payment was unusual or suspicious when compared with the typical account activity as 
thered been so few transactions up to that point. 
I can also see that Miss D contacted Monzo on 12 February 2019 to ask it to confirm if the 
company handling my payment is secure. Monzo replied that it wouldnt be able to help 
Miss D other than to recommend reading reviews of their services before ordering anything. 
Having looked at the chain of communication carefully, I dont believe Monzo mis-led Miss D 
or that it ought to have taken any further action at that stage.
Overall, while I note the payment was for a substantial amount, I dont think there was 
anything else that ought to have flagged it to Monzo as suspicious in the circumstances.
When Mr L and Miss D told Monzo theyd been scammed, it contacted the scammers bank 
around three hours later to see if any of Mr L and Miss Ds money was still in the receiving 
account and could be retrieved. While there was a slight delay in this regard, Im not satisfied 
Mr L and Miss D lost out because of it. I say that because, by that time, it had already been 
five days since the payment had been made to the scammer. Its common for scammers to 
use funds quickly and I dont find it surprising the beneficiary bank said none of the money 
remained. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank took some time to get back to Monzo with its response. 
While Monzo did chase the bank after being prompted by Mr L and Miss D, Monzo didnt 
keep them as informed as it could have in the interim. But I dont think Monzo should be held 
responsible for any delays at the beneficiary bank or for the non-recovery of their money.
That said, I believe Monzo could have done more to keep Mr L and Miss D updated while it 
was waiting for the beneficiary banks response. But I think Monzos apology and payment of 
£40 as compensation for thats appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think Monzo needs 
to pay them any more.
In this case, while I appreciate Mr L and Miss D have been the unfortunate victim of a scam, 
I think Monzos decision not to refund them in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr L and Miss Ds instruction to make the 
payment and I havent seen good enough reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I dont 
think the steps it took to try and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam caused 
them to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman