DRN-2692950
The complaint
Ms H complains about a loan she took out with AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as
Avantcredit (Avantcredit).
  
What happened
 On 1 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision on this case. I came to a different 
outcome to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties a chance to respond before I 
issued my provisional decision.
Ive copied the provisional decision below, and it forms part of this final decision.
On 9 September 2015, Ms H took out a loan with Avantcredit for £2400. The loan was due 
to be repaid over 36 months, and the monthly repayment amount was £110.94. In the same 
month as taking out the loan, Ms H later applied to a debt charity to help her manage her 
debt as she couldnt afford the repayments to her creditors.
Ms H complains that Avantcredit didnt carry out appropriate or sufficient affordability checks 
on her prior to agreeing to lend to her. In order to settle this complaint Ms H would like a 
refund of the interest and any charges she paid in respect of the loan, plus statutory interest. 
She would also like any negative information relating to this loan removed from her credit 
report.
Ms H complained to Avantcredit. It responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong and it 
had carried out sufficient checks when it lent to her. It said it had completed a thorough 
investigation of her application and credit file. It said it cross referenced information from her 
credit file to check affordability, and so it was satisfied Ms H could afford the loan when she 
took it out.
Our investigator also looked into things for Ms H. In summary, our investigator felt that 
Avantcredit had carried out the appropriate checks prior to it approving the loan and so she 
didnt think that its decision to lend to her was irresponsible.
Ms H disagreed. She says that she went into a debt management plan (DMP) shortly after 
the loan was approved, and it was this loan that applied the additional pressure to her 
finances which meant she couldnt continue to keep up with repayments. She has provided 
evidence of the DMP, and also a copy of her credit report to support what she says. 
Because Ms H didnt agree, this case has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint. And Ill explain my reasons for doing 
so below:
Firstly, Ive looked at what seems to be a copy of the application form Ms H completed at the 
time of the loan being agreed. Ms H confirmed on the application that her monthly income 
was £1,150. Ms H has since told this service that this amount wasnt correct and that she 
included some overtime that she had completed that month  so this wasnt a true reflection 
of her regular monthly salary. Ms H has shown us a copy of the payslip she got for August 
2015, and it does confirm that some of her income was from overtime in that month. She has 
also provided us with a payslip for the September 2015 which shows her income without 
overtime, which was £1,110.04.
Avantcredit say it cross referenced her income on the application to her payslip. It noticed 
that there was a small discrepancy in the amount and so recorded her income as £1146.76 
(the amount on the payslip).
There was a responsibility on Ms H to record her income accurately on the application form. 
However, there was also a responsibility on Avantcredit to check that this was right. In any 
event, there isnt much difference in the amounts with or without overtime, and not enough 
for me to change my current decision on this case.
The application form asks Ms H about her monthly expenses. On the form, Ms H has 
recorded her monthly expenses total as £801. Then an additional £100 for rent, £30 for car 
expenses and £50 for other expenses. So this would total £981. Even if I were to consider 
the higher income amount Ms H recorded on the application form, this would leave her with 
£58.06 disposable income each month (after the loan repayment to Avantcredit). This really 
doesnt leave Ms H with a lot of disposable income for a whole month.
There seems to be some discrepancy in the amount Ms H says she paid each month to 
other creditors, and what Avantcredit thinks she was. Looking at the affordability check 
Avantcredit carried out for Ms H at the time she took out the loan, it looks as though 
Avantcredit got information to show that Ms H was paying £371 a month to other creditors. 
So, this is quite a big difference to what Ms H says she was paying on the application form.
Based on this, I can understand why Avantcredit might have thought that Ms H could afford 
the lending.
Ive looked into this in more detail. Ms H has sent me a list of all of her creditors. The list she 
has sent me is the one she provided for the DMP, which started a couple of weeks after the 
loan was taken out. The list shows she had 9 creditors in total this also included the loan 
from Avantcredit. There was also a credit card on the list that was applied for after Ms H took 
out this loan, so I havent included this here. This list shows that prior to Ms H taking out the 
loan with Avantcredit, she had 6 creditors in total, owed £25,037 and her monthly outgoing 
for these commitments was £883.
I have also cross referenced this with the credit report that Ms H sent to this service. This 
shows that some of the balances on the form have been understated and some overstated. 
But I think in total, theyre approximately as stated on the form. Given the length of time 
thats now passed, I cant see the monthly repayment amounts for some the of the creditors 
but given that the balances appear to be broadly accurate, I think Ms H is likely to have been 
paying at least £801 a month.
It isnt clear why Avantcredits report shows a different amount. But based on what Ive said 
above, I think it more likely that she was paying more than £801  and this is also what Ms H 
told Avantcredit on the application form. Given the discrepancy, I think this is something 
Avantcredit ought to have checked further before agreeing to lend to her.Avantcredit says that its affordability check didnt show that Ms H had missed recent 
repayments to other creditors or had any defaults. Looking at the information provided to me 
by both parties, this would appear to be correct. But this doesnt on its own, mean that the 
lending was affordable. It simply means that she had been making repayments each month 
 how she managed to do this isnt clear given what we know about her income at the time. 
But its possible, that she could have been using other credit to keep up with her general 
living expenses. And of course, this isnt the only consideration Avantcredit ought to have 
thought about when making its decision to lend. It would need to look at the whole picture. 
There is other information on the affordability check that concerns me. It shows that there 
had been balance increases with three of her other creditors within the last three months, 
and her debt had increased by £1,074 in this time. Theres a section on the report that says 
Any overindebtness indicators present? and next to this is a number 1. Which suggests to 
me that her credit report was showing that she had too much debt already.
Ms Hs credit report also shows that she was accepted for a different credit card the day 
before she took out this loan. And so, its clear to me that the amount Ms H owed elsewhere 
was increasing, which would suggest that Ms H was already in financial difficulty when she 
applied for the loan.
Its also worth noting that during the application process, Ms H said that her other expenses, 
including rent, would be around £180. Having looked at the information Ms H provided for 
the DMP, these expenses are showing as £681. Ive looked at the breakdown for this 
amount, and this seems like a more realistic figure to the one that was on the application 
form. It isnt clear what questions Avantcredit asked Ms H about her other living expenses, 
but given what Ive said, I think it likely that they were much higher than what has been
recorded on the application form.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I think it would be difficult for me to say that Ms H 
could afford this loan when she took it out. I dont think that Avantcredit did enough to check 
Ms Hs true financial position at the time. This is further supported by Ms H entering into a 
DMP only a few weeks after the loan was drawn down. From what Ive seen, it looks as 
though Ms Hs outgoings were more than she had coming in. If Avantcredit had carried out 
appropriate and proportionate checks, I think it would have discovered this.
It follows, that it is my current decision to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Because I intend to uphold this complaint, I now need to decide how Avantcredit should put
things right for Ms H. As I understand it, this loan has now been repaid and settled. Ms H
had the benefit of the initial loan amount, so I think it is fair that she repays this. But I dont
think it is fair that Avantcredit benefit from any charges or interest that were applied to the
loan  although I note that Avantcredit says that it stopped this shortly after the loan was
taken out, in November 2015.
So, my current view on this is that Avantcredit should:
Refund Ms H any charges or interest that were applied to the loan.
If Ms H has repaid the loan, add 8% simple interest on this amount from the date she
would have been in credit had the interest and charges not been applied.
Remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file that relates to this loan.Ms H responded to my provisional decision to say she had nothing further to add. 
Avantcredit responded to say it didnt agree. And made the below points:
The £801 for expenses on the application form would have been inclusive of an 
additional £100 for rent, £30 for car expenses and £50 for other expenses. For the 
assessment of the affordability of the loan it used the expenses stated £801 which it 
expected to be inclusive of the creditor payments of £371.
The credit report showed that Ms H had three active accounts with balances of zero, 
no arrears or defaults on any account prior to the application and no new accounts 
opened in the last 12 months.
It made its lending decision on the information it had available, which was provided 
by a third-party credit reference agency. The rest of the information was provided by 
Ms H, who it says had a responsibility to provide accurate information.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about everything that has been presented to me, including 
Avantcredits more recent comments in response to my provisional decision. And having 
done so, its my decision to uphold this complaint. 
The rules and regulations that apply to AvantCredits lending relationship with Ms H required 
it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to 
repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as 
an affordability assessment or affordability check.
These checks needed to be borrower focussed and so AvantCredit needed to consider not 
only the likelihood of it getting its money back, but also whether repaying the credit would 
cause undue difficulties for Ms H.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. 
Generally, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type /cost of credit involved.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think AvantCredit did carry out sufficient checks, 
and after looking at everything again, Im still of this opinion. Ill explain why. 
I can see from the application form that AvantCredit asked Ms H about her expenses  it 
asked for her rent or mortgage expenses, council tax, utilities, auto expenses and other 
expenses. AvantCredit says Ms H said her total monthly expenses were £801. Ms H has 
shown me an income and expenditure form that she sent to the third-party for her DMP. 
These show that her total outgoings were a lot more than the £801 she input on the 
application  and in fact her outgoings appear to have totalled more than her monthly 
income. 
Looking at the application, I dont think AvantCredit asked Ms H in much detail what her 
outgoings were. I acknowledge it asked for some of the main expenses she might have, but 
there wasnt the option for Ms H to tell AvantCredit how much she was paying to other 
creditors, or for other general livings costs. If AvantCredit had been more specific in its questioning of Ms Hs other outgoings, then I think it likely Ms H would have been prompted 
to think more about this, and I think she would have provided a more accurate figure. Which 
I think it likely would have indicated to AvantCredit that Ms H couldnt afford the loan.
AvantCredit has said that it expected Ms H to include any amount she was paying to other 
creditors in the total monthly expenses section of the application, and that it was up to her 
to provide accurate information about her financial position. Expecting this information to be 
included isnt enough. As Ive said, the rules and regulations require AvanCredit to carry out 
a proportionate check  which included asking questions about her current situation. As Ive 
said, I dont think expecting someone to include information that hasnt been specifically 
asked for is sufficient. And I think its likely that down to the lack of questioning in this area 
has led Ms H into providing information that isnt as accurate as it could have been. And 
because of this AvantCredit didnt have enough information about Ms Hs expenses to make 
a proper assessment as to whether or not she could afford the loan.  
Avantcredit has relied on the credit report to consider information about the amount Ms H 
was paying each month to other creditors, which it says was £371. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision why I think, on balance, that she was paying more than this each month. 
My opinion on this hasnt changed. And I also dont agree that Avantcredit has done enough 
to check this amount was accurate. 
Avantcredit say it used the affordability report when making its decision to lend to Ms H. The 
report Ive seen shows there was an affordability indicator present, which flagged up as a 
warning. I think this ought to have been an indication that Ms H might have already been in 
financial difficulty at the point it carried out the check. This should have given Avantcredit 
cause to carry out more due diligence checks before it lent to her  and it should have, at the 
very least, found out more information about her financial situation before making its 
decision to lend. It doesnt appear to have done any additional checks after this, and this has 
resulted in agreeing to the loan which has caused Ms H undue difficulties. 
In response to my provisional decision AvantCredit says the credit report it used showed that 
Ms H had three active accounts with balances of zero, no arrears or defaults on any account 
prior to the application and no new accounts opened in the last 12 months.
Ive looked at the report again, and I dont think Avantcredits statement provides a full 
picture of what the report shows. While Ive seen that Ms H had three active accounts with a 
zero balance, the report also shows that Ms H had balances outstanding of £22,833- and 
she had more than three active accounts. 
I agree that there arent any default markers showing on the report, but as Ive explained in 
my provisional decision, this doesnt automatically mean that additional lending was 
affordable or that lending her more would be responsible. 
I can see that the report Avantcredit has relied on states that Ms H hadnt opened any new 
accounts in the last 12 months. But Ive already explained that Ive seen information that 
shows she opened an account with a different lender only a day prior to her applying for this 
account.
Based on everything Ive read and been told, I still cant agree that this loan was affordable 
to Ms H. And I cant agree that Avantcredit acted responsibly when it agreed to lend to her. 
The checks it carried out prior to lending to her werent sufficient, and as a result, this has 
led to Ms H getting into financial difficulties  which is supported by the fact she entered into 
a DMP only a few weeks after the loan was drawn down.
Putting things rightAvantcredit should put things right for Ms H by doing what Ive said below:
Refund Ms H any charges or interest that were applied to the loan.
If Ms H has repaid the loan, add 8% simple interest on this amount from the date she
would have been in credit had the interest and charges not been applied.
Remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file that relates to this loan.
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. I now order AvantCredit of 
UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman