DRN-4040194
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy shes been charged by One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call)
after she tried to cancel her insurance policy renewal.
What happened
Mrs C was insured via One Call insurance for a number of years for her landlords property
insurance.
The policy was due for renewal in October 2022. Mrs C was unhappy with the price, so
decided not to renew. Mrs C tried to stop the renewal, but her policy was renewed so she
cancelled her direct debit instead.
One Call subsequently arranged cancellation of the policy, but initially said a cancellation
fee, broker fee and time on cover was payable. Mrs C complained to One Call and they
removed the cancellation and broker fees but said the time on risk was still payable to them.
Mrs C paid the amount One Call said was due, but as she remained unhappy, she
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said Mrs C had shown she
made reasonable attempts to contact One Call to stop her renewal. As Mrs C had already
paid the amount One Call said was due, she recommended this should be reimbursed.
One Call didnt agree. They said Mrs C hadnt contacted the right area of the business and
should have used either the live chat function, or the numbers in her renewal documents.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, whilst I reached broadly the same outcome as the 
investigator, there were some additional things I was minded to direct One Call to do to put 
things right. So, I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but 
there are additional things Im minded to direct One Call to do to put things right. So, 
Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on 
my provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
One Call says Mrs C should either have telephoned them or used the live web chat 
service to stop her renewal, as outlined in her renewal documents. But as she didnt, 
the policy was renewed.
When the policy was later cancelled, One Call said Mrs C needed to pay them 
£104.42. This was made up of:
Costs for days insured £18.43
Broker fees £30
Cancellation fees £55.99
After Mrs C complained to One Call, they removed the broker and cancellation fees, 
but said the £18.43 was still payable to them  and whilst she didnt agree, Mrs C 
paid One Call this by cheque on 3 January 2023.
Mrs C has explained that she tried to call One Call prior to renewal but wasnt able to 
get through. She also tried to use the webchat function, but this didnt work or 
recognise her as a customer either.
As Mrs C was unable to get through on either of these methods, she contacted 
One Call using email. Mrs C has provided copies of the emails with One Calls agent, 
and this has also been shared with One Call. These emails are from shortly before 
the renewal date.
During this email contact, Mrs C explained to the agent that shed tried to telephone 
but shed not been able to reach anyone. And that shed tried to use the webchat as 
directed but it didnt work. So, she asked if the agent could arrange for someone to 
call her. The agent advised that the relevant team werent contactable via phone, 
therefore someone wouldnt be able to call her. They said to use the webchat 
instead.
Mrs C explained that this wasnt working, and again asked for someone to call her. 
The agent said One Call didnt use the phone, and again to use the webchat. Mrs C 
again reiterated the issues she was having, and the agent again said phone wasnt 
an option.
I think its clear here that Mrs C made reasonable attempts to contact One Call to 
stop her renewal going ahead, prior to the renewal date. She also explained the 
issues she was having but was directed to the webchat despite saying this wasnt 
working. She was also told that the relevant team didnt use the phone either, several 
times.
One Call says that Mrs C contacted the wrong area of the business and should have 
used the number in her renewal documents, or the webchat. However, the reason 
why Mrs C was contacting One Call by email was due to not being able to reach 
anyone by phone, and the webchat not working.
Given Mrs C explained this to One Call, but wasnt provided with any further 
assistance, I dont think she acted unreasonably by cancelling her direct debit.
As Im satisfied Mrs C made reasonable attempts to contact One Call, prior to 
renewal, to stop it going ahead, I dont think One Call has acted fairly by treating the 
policy as if it did renew and asking Mrs C to pay time on cover. Therefore, unless 
anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im minded to direct One Call to reimburse the £18.43 it received from Mrs C. 8% simple interest 
should also be added from date of payment to date of reimbursement.
In addition, as I think Mrs C made reasonable attempts to stop the renewal ahead of 
the renewal date, One Call should also remove any records of the cancellation for 
non-payment internally and externally, and ask the insurer to do the same.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct One Call to reimburse Mrs C 
£18.43 with 8% simple interest added, and to remove any records of cancellation for non-
payment internally and externally, and ask the insurer to do the same.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C responded accepting my provisional decision.
One Call responded but they didnt agree. They said, as theyd mentioned previously, Mrs C 
contacted the incorrect area of One Call. They said Mrs C should have known she was 
incorrectly contacting the commercial insurance area when she doesnt hold commercial 
insurance.
Additionally, One Call said they have previously made it clear which methods of contact 
Mrs C needed to use to reach the relevant area, and they dont agree Mrs C struggled to 
reach them. They also said their agent had directed Mrs C to the right area.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached. Having done so, my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
The points One Call has provided in response to my provisional decision are points theyve 
made previously. So, they were taken into account when I reached my provisional decision.
But to reiterate, Mrs C was unable to reach One Call via telephone or webchat, and thats 
the reason she contacted One Call by email instead. She explained this to the agent at the 
time, so I dont agree with One Calls assertion that Mrs C couldnt have struggled to reach 
them as the information provided demonstrates otherwise. The agent also said the relevant 
team didnt operate via the phone, and Mrs C explained she was unable to use the webchat 
as it wasnt working.
Im satisfied Mrs C made reasonable attempts to contact One Call, prior to renewal, to stop it 
going ahead. Mrs C explained the problems she was having, and asked One Calls agent for 
assistance, but wasnt provided with any, so she cancelled her direct debit instead. As 
outlined in my provisional decision, and on this basis, I dont think One Call has acted fairly 
by treating the policy as if it did renew and was cancelled mid-term with associated time on 
risk charges.
Whilst it doesnt change anything overall or my reasoning or decision, One Call has said 
Mrs C should have known she wasnt a commercial customer as she didnt have a 
commercial policy. Therefore, they say she mustve known she was contacting the wrong 
area.However, I also note Mrs Cs policy was a landlord policy, and one of the documents One 
Call sent us titled Information Booklet Home Insurance says One Call Commercial  for all 
business requirements, landlord and van insurance. Therefore, whilst One Call say it should 
have been obvious Mrs C had contacted the wrong area, I dont entirely agree as the 
documents do say landlord insurance should be dealt with by One Call Commercial. But in 
any event, like I say, this doesnt change anything overall, the reasoning or the outcome Ive 
reached.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct One Call Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs C £18.43
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment to date of settlement
Remove any records of cancellation for non-payment internally and externally, and 
ask the insurer to do the same
*If One Call Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman