DRN-3312704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A, hasnt fully settled a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs B booked a villa abroad and paid a deposit for their booking. 
They were due to travel between 11 and 18 July 2020. The villa was booked for 12 people. 
Mr and Mrs B planned to pay for the full costs of the accommodation as a gift for family 
members to celebrate Mr Bs birthday. Mr and Mrs B took out a joint single trip travel 
insurance policy to cover their trip.
However, unfortunately, in March 2020, Mr B became unwell and was hospitalised. And in 
May 2020, his doctor advised him that he wasnt fit to travel. So Mr and Mrs B cancelled their 
villa and made a claim on their policy for the cost of the villa deposit.
Mapfre accepted and partly settled Mr and Mrs Bs claim. But it didnt agree to pay Mr and 
Mrs Bs full villa deposit costs it simply settled their share of the deposit. This meant that Mr 
and Mrs B were paid 2/12th of the total villa deposit.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Mapfres decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be 
upheld. He accepted that Mr and Mrs B had paid the full deposit costs for the villa and had 
intended to pay for the accommodation for their family members. But he noted that the policy 
stated Mapfre would only cover a policyholders own costs. So he felt itd been fair for 
Mapfre to limit its settlement of this claim to Mr and Mrs Bs personal deposit costs alone.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said that in the circumstances, given Mr Bs illness, it had 
been impossible for them to go on holiday. They sent us a copy of a newspaper article 
where a person in similar circumstances to their own had received full settlement from their 
insurer. And they said that the members of their travelling party had planned to take out their 
own insurance policies shortly before they were due to travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I think Mapfre has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether 
Mapfre treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. 
First, Im sorry to hear about the circumstances which gave rise to Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I 
dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this mustve been for them both and for their 
family. I do hope that Mr B has made a good recovery.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B intended to pay for a celebration holiday for their family. And I 
can see from Mrs Bs credit card statement that they paid the full deposit costs for the villa. I 
can understand how disappointing it mustve been when Mapfre only settled the costs of 
their own deposit and excluded the deposits for the other nine members of their family. So 
Ive looked carefully at the relevant policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of 
their contract with Mapfre, to decide whether Mapfre settled the claim fairly.
The policy says that if a policyholder has to cancel their trip, Mapfre will pay the following 
costs up to the policy limits:
 Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or 
cutting short your trip; and
Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short 
your trip.
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out special conditions which apply to claims. 
One of these says:
We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance cover 
with InsureandGo. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not insured, we 
only pay your proportion of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking.
In my view, the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that Mapfre will only pay the unused 
cancellation expenses of a person(s) who are insured under the policy. In this case, only Mr 
and Mrs B had taken out insurance cover with Mapfre and were the only people insured by 
this policy. I dont think I could reasonably interpret the contract in such a way as to find that 
Mr and Mrs Bs family members deposit costs should also be met. 
Mr and Mrs B have provided us with a copy of a news article which they feel supports their 
position. However, its important I make it clear that we consider complaints on their own 
individual facts. And Ive taken into account the specific terms of Mr and Mrs Bs contract 
with Mapfre in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their particular 
complaint. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position, because I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket for the remainder of the deposit they paid. But I dont find that Mapfre acted unfairly 
when it calculated the settlement due to Mr and Mrs B for their cancelled villa. This means 
that Im satisfied that Mapfre has settled this claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman