DRN-3477453
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about Santander UK Plc following a dispute request.
What happened
Mr M says he asked Santander to raise a dispute for him. He says he was told he could 
raise a dispute online or that dispute forms would be sent him. Mr M says he didnt want to 
raise a dispute online or complete forms and so was discriminated against. He also 
complains about how his complaint was then dealt with and the way he was spoken to. Mr M 
would like compensation for what took place and says other banks deal with disputes 
differently.
Santander says it told Mr M that he could raise a dispute online or that it could send him a 
dispute form which he could complete and return to it. It says which ever method is chosen a 
form has to be completed. Santander doesnt accept speaking inappropriately to Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so she couldnt look into that 
part of the complaint. The investigator thought that Santander had fairly offered to send out 
the dispute form and explained that Mr M could raise the dispute online. The investigator 
didnt think there any evidence of discrimination.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and maintains he was discriminated against.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my view and make clear to him that I have listened 
to all of the telephone calls and so appreciate his frustration in these circumstances.
I make clear to Mr M that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so we cant 
consider complaints about that part of this complaint. I am satisfied that having listened to 
the calls between the parties that Mr Ms complaints about how his complaint was handled 
on those calls is completely separate to his original complaint. I think its clear that for 
example Mr M wished to raise complaints about individual complaint handlers and how the 
calls were dealt with. And that Mr M accepts during one call that there are now separate 
issues between the original complaint and the complaint handling issues.
The main complaint that Im satisfied that we can look at is Mr M complaint about being able 
to raise a dispute. Im satisfied that its up to Santander to decide, when exercising its 
commercial judgement, what its process is for raising a dispute. Im also satisfied that Mr M 
was clearly told he had two options for raising a dispute, that he could make a dispute online 
or that a dispute form could be sent to him for completion. I dont think its clear why Mr M 
wasnt prepared to take either option and I cant see why that amounts to discrimination as 
its clear those are its options for every customer. Im satisfied that Mr M regularly used 
online banking and cant see a reason why the dispute couldnt be raised in that way. 
Having listened to the calls between the parties Im satisfied that Santander fairly explained 
its process to Mr M. I cant see why Mr M says that process is unfair and make clear to him 
that I cant consider what other banks or building societies process is for raising a dispute.
Overall, I find that this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman