DRN-3593029
The complaint
Miss G and Mr L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly refused their 
application for a mortgage when they were trying to port their mortgage product to a new 
property which meant they had to take a mortgage with a new lender and pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Miss G and Mr L had a mortgage with Halifax and a mortgage product which meant if they 
redeemed the mortgage early that they would pay an ERC unless they were able to port it to 
a new mortgage on a new property. Miss G and Mr L wanted to move to a property which 
would involve extra borrowing. They applied for a new mortgage in early January 2021, but 
the mortgage application was then refused. Miss G and Mr L say that the reason for the 
refusal lay in Halifax not collecting a direct debit when their account switched to Halifax 
which meant that an arrears marker was placed on the account.
Halifax said that it had a loan for Miss G and the direct debit details were amended on 21 
August 2020 but that this was too close to the payment date of 24 August and the direct 
debit wasnt collected. A late payment maker was placed on the account although the 
payment was taken at the beginning of September 2020. I understand that this marker was 
later removed but not before Miss G and Mr L made their mortgage application.  When Miss 
G and Mr L made their mortgage application, it failed because it didnt meet Halifaxs credit 
score which Halifax described as not meeting its risk profile at the time of application. Halifax 
said the application was reviewed by its senior underwriters, but the decline remained. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as in his view Halifax 
had dealt with the application fairly. Miss G and Mr L disagreed and asked for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has made a separate complaint about Halifaxs actions in failing to collect the original 
direct debit. This complaint relates to Halifaxs failure to give Miss G and Mr L a mortgage 
which they believe is related to the arrears maker causing their credit score to fail. I 
understand that at the time if the application the arrears maker for the missed direct debit 
was still on Miss Gs credit file. It seems that the application failed Halifaxs credit score and 
Miss G pointed out the issue about the direct debit and asked Halifax to reconsider. My role 
is to see if the application was processed fairly bearing in mind that arrears marker.  
I note that this application was for higher lending than already existed, so this wasnt a more 
straightforward like-for-like application with the same lending but required a full assessment. 
The application failed Halifaxs credit score on 4 January 2021 and then, after the 
submission on behalf of the borrowers about why there was an arrears marker related to the 
direct debit, was reviewed by the underwriters on 11 January. Halifax tells us that The 
underwriters were satisfied with that explanation, however there were other factors that 
raised concerns about increasing the loan. Halifax has told us what those concerns were - 
which were credit related concerns as to whether this level of borrowing was affordable for 
Miss G and Mr L. Halifax has asked us to respect its confidentiality as to what matters it 
considers in reaching its lending decision and I must respect that. 
I can see that the underwriters considered Miss Gs explanation of the arrears marker and 
was content with that but that there were other matters that led the underwriters to the 
conclusion that they did not wish to accept the increased risk of providing this loan to Miss G 
and Mr L. Those concerns would have existed whether there was an arrears marker or not. 
So, I cant fairly accept that the arrears marker was the reason that this application failed and 
so, I dont uphold his complaint,
. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman