DRN-3614900
The complaint
Mrs T complains about AJ Bell Management Limited.
Mrs Ts main complaint point relates to AJ Bells trading platform, and the problems she has 
experienced using it.
I understand that Mrs Ts husband has also made a similar complaint, but in this decision, I 
will only be considering Mrs Ts complaint.
What happened
Mrs T held a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with AJ Bell.
In November 2020, Mrs T says that she was unable to trade using the online platform as it 
was impacted by market volatility following an announcement regarding COVID-19 
vaccinations. She says that this caused a financial loss of around £950 to her SIPP.
Mrs T complained to AJ Bell. While it accepted Mrs T hadnt been able to trade using her 
online account, it didnt award compensation. Mrs T remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to this service. AJ Bell then offered Mrs T £500 ex gratia, but Mrs T said that the 
payment offered did not go far enough to recognise the impact this, and other issues, had on 
her.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint but thought that the payment offered by AJ Bell was 
fair in the circumstances. Mrs T disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that AJ Bell need do anymore than it already has done here, 
and that the offer it has made to Mrs T is fair given the circumstances of her complaint. I 
know this will be unwelcome news and disappointing for Mrs T, so Ill explain the reasons 
why.
On 9 November 2020, shortly prior to an announcement relating to a COVID-19 vaccine, 
Mrs T began to notice market movement. Shortly after, an announcement was made about a 
vaccine and Mrs T says she tried to sell shares she held with two pharmaceutical companies 
using AJ Bells online platform. She was unable to do so and the market then moved 
dramatically and unfavourably for Mrs T. She says that she was unable to successfully 
complete the sales, and that the website did not become available to use properly until after 
the markets had already closed. An email was then sent by Mr T on behalf of Mrs T at 
around 19:00 the same day explaining the issues that Mrs T had experienced. I can 
appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been, especially as time was critical.
Ive considered AJ Bells terms and conditions relating to its online platform, and what it has 
said about the matter overall. I can see that on page seven of its terms and conditions Using 
the website it explains you may experience occasional interruptionin extreme market 
conditions or due to systems malfunction or failure. 
AJ Bell has said that 9 November 2020 was its busiest ever day in terms of traffic to its 
trading platform  and that this caused technological issues that were ongoing throughout 
the day, despite the best efforts of its IT department. It posted several messages on its 
platform throughout the day. 
I would expect a business to have robust procedures in place to ensure the smooth running 
of a time critical platform  however, this was an unprecedented event not seen before, and 
there are times when pressure placed on a system can cause unforeseen complications and 
system failures. I think that AJ Bell has explained that this can happen within its terms and 
conditions and I dont think thats unreasonable given technology cannot be totally infallible 
at all times. 
While it is clear that Mrs T was unable to access the trading platform online, there were other 
ways of effecting the trades. AJ Bell also permits orders via telephone, so I wouldve 
expected Mrs T to have attempted to sell the stocks she wanted to sell by phone.  Mrs T 
says that she attempted to call AJ Bell in order to complete the sales, but that its phonelines 
were permanently engaged or unanswered. But AJ Bell says that it has no records of any 
attempts to call its helpline from Mrs Ts number, although it does have a record of calls 
taking place on 10 November and on 17 November 2020. It also said on this day it received 
over 5,000 calls with a wait time average of around six and a half minutes. So, I think its 
clear that other customers were able to place orders by phone. And I do not find the wait 
time excessive given the events of the day.
While Mrs T asserts that she called several times, I havent seen evidence to persuade me 
that she was unable to place the trades she wanted by phone. I have also seen an email 
from Mr T dated 14 January 2022 where he confirms that Mrs T herself did not attempt to 
call AJ Bell, and it was him that attempted to call, although he doesnt have anything now 
available to support this. Im also mindful that the email Mr T sent on 9 November 2020 
didnt reference any attempted calls that day  it simply expressed frustration that they were 
unable to trade via the online platform. For this reason, I wont be asking AJ Bell to 
compensate Mrs T for her alleged losses.
As well as her main complaint, Mrs T has also raised some further issues which I will now 
address.
I understand that Mrs T is also unhappy with a number of other technical issues that have 
affected usage of the trading platform  namely on 16 December 2019 and 9 April 2020. 
However, Mrs T hasnt said that she has been financially disadvantaged by these outages. 
So, while I accept this likely caused frustration, I wont be asking AJ Bell to pay any further 
compensation for these inconveniences.  
I also understand that Mrs T would like this Service to conduct a full investigation into AJ 
Bell, and its practices and procedures, in order to protect her, and other clients in the future. 
I understand the motivation behind this request  and it is of course a legitimate concern for 
Mrs T. However, the role of this Service is to decide on individual complaints, and where 
appropriate ask a business to put things right. This kind of action is more appropriate for the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which is the regulator of financial institutions. 
Mrs T has also raised concerns about a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) made to AJ 
Bell, and the way it has handled her complaint. She says that it didnt provide everything that it should have in relation to her complaint and didnt give it appropriate consideration. 
Im not able to verify the information that AJ Bell provided when responding to the DSAR 
Mrs T made  although AJ Bell has confirmed that everything was fully disclosed. I can see 
no reason for it to withhold information it is obliged to disclose. But if Mrs T does have grave 
concerns here, this is a more appropriate matter for the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) which deals with compliance in this area.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that AJ Bell didnt consider her complaint in an 
appropriate manner. It provided a final response letter, and as well as all information 
required by this service to independently review Mrs Ts concerns.
Mrs T has also said that AJ Bell would consider recompense for the 9 November 2020 
systems failure  and that she wasnt sure that any of its customers did receive 
compensation, suspecting that this would be none. Our Investigator has already provided 
Mrs T with information about this that they gathered from AJ Bell, so I wont repeat this here. 
Furthermore, the role of this Service is limited to considering the impact of AJ Bells service 
on Mrs T.
AJ Bell has agreed to pay Mrs T £500  and I think that this is fair and reasonable given 
Mrs Ts particular circumstances. I cant comment on any other compensation paid to other 
parties, as I have considered this complaint on its individual merits.
I do have sympathy for Mrs Ts situation  she has already retired and her pension is 
important for her future financial situation and decisions, and I do acknowledge that she 
does not have the time of a younger investor to absorb such volatility. But overall, Im 
satisfied that AJ Bell has offered fair compensation for the issue she experienced.
My final decision
AJ Bell Management Limited has made Mrs T a fair offer of compensation in regard to her 
complaint and should now pay her £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman