DRN-3272624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Scottish Widows Limited, trading as Halifax Financial Services, 
failed to set up their investment as instructed, which may have tax implications. They bring 
their complaint as trustees of three trusts, for which they are also the settlors, and on behalf 
of the third trustee. 
The business told us this complaint should be set up against Scottish Widows Limited, 
trading as Halifax Financial Services. I will refer to it as Scottish Widows throughout the rest 
of my decision.
What happened
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M sought advice about estate planning as they wanted to mitigate the 
inheritance tax liability on their deaths. They were advised to set up three discretionary trust 
funds, investing in personal investment plans written on the lives of the youngest two 
potential beneficiaries.
The recommendation included details about how the trusts should be set up and funded. 
The advisor said:
In order to reduce the potential for inheritance tax charges for the trustees as ten-year 
anniversaries (periodic charges) I am recommending that three separate flexible gift trusts 
are established on different days by you making a gift of £3,000 to each. Once each trust 
has been established you should make a further gift to each of £213,666.66 on the same 
day. This will have the effect of providing each trust with its own nil rate band for inheritance 
tax purposes.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs M decided they wanted to assign the investment to their children and 
grandchildren and wanted to ensure they did so without incurring a tax liability  as originally 
intended. Due to business entity changes, Mr M had difficulty finding the right person to 
contact to deal with his request. During his communications, he realised there may have 
been a problem with the way the investment had been made. Once the trusts were set up 
and the first £3,000 paid into each, Mr and Mrs M made the second payment. But it was 
credited to trust one on 28 October 2009 and to trusts two and three on 29 October 2009.
Mr and Mrs M asked Scottish Widows to explain the tax implications of the mistake and to 
find out whether it or the advisor was responsible. 
Scottish Widows said it provided trust valuations at the 10-year anniversary but that it was 
not responsible for calculating any tax liabilities. It said it could not provide tax advice on 
what might be the position at the next 10-year anniversary, or on assignment of the trusts. 
And that it would not reimburse Mr and Mrs M for any charges they incurred in seeking tax 
advice.
Mr and Mrs M sought advice from an accountant. The accountant explained the implications 
of failing to credit the payment of £641,000 to each of the trusts on the same day. It 
confirmed there was no tax payable at the first 10-year anniversary in 2019. But that a tax 
charge might be triggered at the next 10-year anniversary in 2029. The accountant 
recommended Mr and Mrs M seek advice before 2029 and that, at that point, the only way of 
avoiding a tax charge might be to make an early distribution of funds.
Mr and Mrs M say they felt forced to break up the trusts and terminate the whole tax 
planning arrangement.
After the complaint had been referred to us, Scottish Widows accepted that there had been 
an error in setting up the plans.
Our investigator thought Scottish Widows should reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost of the 
accountants fees and pay them £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Scottish Widows agreed.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said, in summary, that
The offer of £100 is derisory.
The refusal of Scottish Widows to deal with their complaint properly has led to the trusts 
having to be terminated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here from all parties. 
Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I am not a tax expert. I have relied on the information provided by Mr and Mrs Ms 
accountant about the tax implications.
I want to make it clear that I do understand how frustrating it has been for Mr M to try to get 
some clear answers about what happened here and what the implications are. This is partly 
because of how long ago the trusts were set up and the changes of business responsibilities 
since.
Scottish Widows has now accepted that it made a mistake in applying Mr and Mrs Ms 
payment of £641,000 and that it should have been credited to each of the trusts on the same 
day. Mr and Mrs M say this mistake, and the failure of Scottish Widows to accept it, led to 
them having no choice but to terminate the trusts. Im sorry, but I dont agree. Let me explain 
why.
When Mr M contacted Scottish Widows in September 2020, before he realised thered been 
a mistake in setting up the trusts, he said he wanted to assign the plans out of trust and to 
his grandchildren. Whilst he wanted to understand the tax implications of doing this, it seems 
that  provided he didnt incur a large tax liability  he and his wife felt it was the right time to 
assign the trusts. So theyd already decided they wanted to assign the trusts, before they 
sought tax advice.The accountants advice was that there may be a tax liability in 2029, depending on the 
performance of the investments, and that Mr and Mrs M should seek advice nearer the time. 
I dont find the accountant advised Mr and Mrs M to break the trusts in the near term 
because of the tax implications.
So I dont find Scottish Widows mistake meant the trusts had to end.
And I dont find Scottish Widows mistake has led to a financial loss for which Mr and Mrs M 
should be compensated. The accountant advised no tax was payable at the first ten-year tax 
test applied in October 2019. I dont know whether there will be any tax liability as a result of 
Mr and Mrs M choosing to end the trusts. But, as Ive found it was their choice to do so, and 
that their accountant advised them to seek professional advice before doing so, I dont find 
Scottish Widows is responsible for paying any resulting tax that is due.
When Mr M first contacted Scottish Widows, he wanted it to tell him how much tax was due 
on the first ten-year anniversary. But this wasnt Scottish Widows responsibility. It provided a 
valuation so that Mr and Mrs M could seek the specialist tax advice that was needed.
I think Mr and Mrs M would always have had to pay for tax advice  on the ten-year 
anniversaries and on assigning the trusts. But I find they had to pay for specific advice to find 
out the implications of the £641,000 payment not being credited to each of the trusts on the 
same day. As this was because of Scottish Widows mistake, I think its fair and reasonable 
that it reimburses Mr and Mrs M for the accountants costs of £1,920.
Our investigator recommended Scottish Widows pay Mr and Mrs M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. They would like considerably more than that. As I noted earlier, 
I do understand how frustrating this has been for Mr M. But a lot of that frustration, and 
wasted time, was caused by his difficulty in finding out which entity was responsible when he 
wanted to raise a complaint, rather than the 2009 mistake itself. Mr M also feels that, if 
Scottish Widows had thoroughly investigated his complaint, it would have admitted its 
mistake at an earlier stage. But I dont think this makes an overall difference to the outcome 
here  Ive found the mistake did not result in a financial loss. And Mr and Mrs M were 
always going to have to clarify the tax position. I dont underestimate the worry Mr and 
Mrs M felt about the potential impact of the mistake. But thankfully it would seem, from the 
advice they received from their accountant and their decision to assign the trusts, that that 
worry hasnt materialised. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, 
but I agree with the investigator that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr M has mentioned he may consider pursuing this matter through the courts. He is of 
course free to do this should he choose to reject my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Scottish Widows Ltd, trading as 
Halifax Financial Services, should:
1. Pay Mr and Mrs M £1,920 to reimburse them for the cost of the accountants advice.
2. Pay Mr and Mrs M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman