DRN-4279328
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the replacement oven 
she was provided after making a claim on her appliance insurance policy.
Mrs P has been represented by her daughter through much of the claim and complaint 
process. So, for ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made by 
both Mrs P and her daughter as though they were made by Mrs P throughout the decision.
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs P took out an insurance policy underwritten by DGI, intended to 
cover her oven should it break down. Unfortunately, it did break down in March 2022 and so, 
Mrs P contacted DGI to make a claim.
After an inspection, it was decided Mrs Ps oven couldnt be repaired as a required part was 
no longer available. So, DGI accepted the claim and contacted Mrs P to arrange a 
replacement.
But Mrs P wasnt happy with the replacement options DGI originally provided. And the oven 
models Mrs P would consider werent available to be ordered with DGIs supplier, who Ill 
refer to as X. So, Mrs P agreed to wait until an oven she was happy with became available.
Mrs P and DGI continued to communicate sporadically about this over the next months until 
November, when Mrs P agreed to a replacement. The replacement oven was ordered on 22 
November, with delivery and installation booked in for 29 November, a week later. At the 
time of ordering, DGI had agreed to waive the upgrade fee and disposal/installation costs, 
which totalled £359.98. But this payment was taken from Mrs P despite this agreement.
Mrs Ps replacement oven was delivered, and installed, on 29 November. But Mrs P was 
unhappy with the features of the oven, including the lack of telescopic rails and rotating 
handles. So, on 5 December, Mrs P contacted DGI to ask that the oven be replaced. But 
DGI explained they were unable to agree to this request, as the oven had been installed and 
so, X would no longer accept a return. Mrs P was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs P didnt think DGIs refusal to replace the new oven was a fair one. She didnt think it 
was made clear to her that having the oven installed would impact her ability to return it, 
should she be unhappy. And Mrs P explained she required certain features to enable her to 
use the oven, due to her vulnerabilities. So, Mrs P wanted DGI to arrange a replacement of 
the oven, with one that had the exact same features as her original oven insured on her 
insurance policy.
DGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had provided Mrs P 
with a reasonable replacement to her original oven insured on the policy. And they felt they 
had provided Mrs P with a reasonable amount of information during the replacement process 
to ensure the oven was one she would be happy with. DGI also felt theyd acted fairly by 
agreeing to waive the upgrade, installation, and disposal costs, which they didnt need to do. 
So, as X would no longer accept a return due to the boiler being installed, DGI didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mrs P remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it initially. They thought the 
replacement oven delivered to Mrs P was the oven she had chosen. And they were satisfied 
the oven was a reasonable replacement, that fell in line with the obligations set out within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. They also recognised that, as the oven had been 
installed, X would no longer accept a return as stipulated in the return rights sent to Mrs P by 
DGI. So, they didnt think DGI were unfair to refuse arranging another replacement. Our 
investigator also acknowledged DGIs waiver of the upgrade fee, disposal fee and 
installation costs, which they thought was both fair and reasonable, showing DGI attempting 
to act in Mrs Ps best interests. And because of the above, they didnt think DGI needed to 
do anything more.
Mrs P didnt agree. She provided evidence to show she had paid the £359.98 and that this 
fee hadnt been waived our investigator had stated. And she provided several comments 
explaining why she disagreed with our investigators view. These included, but are not limited 
to, Mrs Ps belief that she wasnt made aware before taking delivery of the oven that 
installing it would impact her right of return. Mrs P also made clear why she felt the 
replacement oven wasnt suitable and why she felt this wasnt an appropriate consideration, 
taking into account the fact shed agreed to pay an upgrade fee.
Our investigator considered these comments. And they returned to DGI explaining they had 
seen evidence to show Mrs P had paid the £359.98 fee, even though it shouldve been 
waived. So, our investigator recommended DGI refund this amount, plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of refund, to recognise DGIs failure to waive the fee as 
they had agreed. DGI accepted this recommendation. And our investigator thought this was 
a fair way to resolve the complaint, as they maintained their position that DGI had provided 
an adequate replacement which, as it had been installed, could no longer be replaced. Mrs P 
remained unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint as I will be directing DGI to do something that 
hadnt been done at the time of their final response. Ive focused my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs P. I appreciate Mrs P 
took out the policy with DGI to assist her both practically and financially in a situation such as 
the one she found herself in. So, as Mrs P feels she has been left with an inadequate 
replacement oven after claiming on this policy, I can understand why she would feel as 
though DGI have treated her unfairly and want them to do something differently.
But for me to say DGI should do something more, such as arrange for another replacement, 
I first need to be satisfied DGI have made an error that led to Mrs P being left with an oven 
that wasnt suitable. So, Id need to be satisfied DGI failed to act within the terms of the 
policy when processing Mrs Ps claim as they did. Or, if I think they did act within these, that 
they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, when considering the replacement of 
the oven and the model Mrs P now has in her home, I dont think thats the case.Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs P held. These explain that In some 
situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for example where 
we cannot repair it, or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your product). In 
Mrs Ps situation, its accepted that her original, insured oven couldnt be repaired. So, I think 
DGI acted fairly, and in line with the policy, when beginning the replacement process.
The terms and conditions go onto explain that within these circumstances, we will arrange 
to replace your product with one of a same or similar make a technical specification. In this 
situation, its accepted the same oven Mrs P held wasnt available to be ordered through 
DGIs supplier, X. So, I think DGI were fair to enter into communication with Mrs P to agree a 
suitable replacement. And, that this replacement should be one of a similar make and 
technical specification. Crucially, I dont think it had to be exactly the same, with exactly the 
same specification as, due to continuing technological advancement, this can sometimes be 
impossible.
Ive seen between March and November 2022, DGI and Mrs P spoke on several occasions 
about different models that Mrs P could select, and what any upgrade fee for these may be. 
And Ive listened to the call Mrs P had with DGI on 22 November 2022, where the 
replacement oven was ordered. I recognise this call was handled between Mrs Ps daughter 
and DGI but, as I explained above, I will refer to any actions or comments made by Mrs Ps 
daughter as though they were made by Mrs P in her capacity as Mrs Ps representative.
On this call, Mrs P provided the oven make and model number she wished to purchase to 
replace the original oven. At no point during this call do I think DGI attempted to influence 
Mrs P into taking this decision. In fact, I think DGI worked in Mrs Ps best interests by 
agreeing to reduce the upgrade fee, to make the model Mrs P wanted a more affordable 
option.
And Im satisfied from DGIs system notes, and the order confirmation letter sent to Mrs P, 
that the oven Mrs P received was the same model as the one she requested on this call. So, 
Im satisfied DGI acted in line with the terms of the policy as Id expect them to, and that they 
acted fairly when doing so.
But Im aware when the oven was received by Mrs P, it didnt have certain features she 
expected. And Mrs P has sent screenshots of Xs website, which she feels evidences this. I 
first want to make it clear that DGIs obligations under the policy were to provide Mrs P with 
a replacement oven of a similar specification. And that crucially, an oven specification is 
different to the features an oven possesses. Mrs P is unhappy that the oven didnt have 
telescopic rails, rotating handled and a white interface for the date and time. But having 
reviewed Xs website, the same page as that sent by Mrs P in screenshot form, I can see all 
of these would be referred to as features. And crucially, in the features we love section, the 
website states clearly that telescopic rails werent included on the model of oven Mrs P 
selected.
It also describes the handle as fixed with no reference to any rotation and while it refers to 
the oven having an electronic interface, it doesnt state what colour this would show. But in a 
photo on the page, the time shows in a red colour, as Mrs P has confirmed it does since its 
been installed.
So, based on the above, I dont think the oven Mrs P received was in any way different from 
the one she asked DGI to supply. And I dont think the features Mrs P are unhappy with 
means the specification of the model is significantly and materially different to the original 
oven she insured under the policy. And under the terms of the policy, DGIs obligation was to 
provide an oven of a similar model and specification. So, I dont think I can say DGI have 
acted unfairly, or outside of the policy terms, when supplying Mrs P with an oven that has some slightly varying features.
If Mrs P is unhappy with the way the model is described on Xs website, this would be 
something that Mrs P would need to raise directly with X as DGI are unable to control Xs 
website, the information it provides and how clear this information is. So, DGI arent 
responsible for any concerns around this.
Ive then turned to the return process, and whether DGI have acted fairly when refusing to 
replace the oven after Mrs P made them aware of her unhappiness. Ive seen the order 
confirmation letter sent to Mrs P on 22 November 2022. As Mrs P has provided this to our 
service, Im satisfied DGI did send it. And from the system notes, Im satisfied it was sent on 
the day it was dated. So, while I recognise Mrs P feels she didnt receive this until after the 
oven had been delivered, I dont think DGI were able to control the time it took the postal 
service to deliver the letter to Mrs P. And I think a week between the letter being sent, and 
the oven being delivered, was a reasonable amount of time for DGI to allow.
Within this letter, it contained Mrs Ps return rights with the supplier, X. And within this it 
explains that Mrs P was able to return the oven as long as DGI were notified within 14 days 
of delivery, whether or not it was packed, or unpacked. So, I dont think Xs delivery agent 
unpacking the oven made any difference in this case.
But it also clearly explains that, even when an oven has been unpacked, Mrs P would only 
be able to return it if it hadnt been installed or used.
In this situation, Mrs P has confirmed the oven was installed. So, because of this, X would 
no longer accept a return of the oven in their role as the supplier. And I wouldnt expect DGI 
to then agree to ordering another replacement, as they would then be left at a financial loss, 
with an oven X wouldnt take back, when the replacement oven already installed was of a 
similar make and specification, as Ive already explained above.
So, I dont think I can say DGI have acted unfairly when not agreeing to arrange for a second 
replacement for Mrs P. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more regarding this 
aspect of the complaint.
But I do note that DGI have accepted they did agree to waive the upgrade fee, disposal fee 
and installation fees applicable to Mrs P as a gesture of goodwill. And its not in dispute that 
Mrs P continued to pay the amount of £359.98, when she shouldnt have done. So, this is 
where I think DGI have acted unfairly as, even though they didnt need to waive this amount, 
Id expect them to follow through with this waiver when they offered to do so, as it created an 
expectation for Mrs P. As I think DGI have acted unfairly here, Ive then turned to what I think 
they should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
I note DGI have already accepted Mrs P shouldnt have paid this amount and they have 
agreed to refund the amount she paid, to ensure she is back in the position she shouldve 
been, had they applied the waiver correctly.
And I note our investigator recommended DGI pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from 
the date of payment to the date of refund, to recognise the length of time Mrs P has been 
without access to these funds. I think this is a fair direction that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been put forward. It recognises the 
length of time Mrs P was unable to use these funds. But I dont think any further award is 
necessary, as I think this waiver was offered as a gesture of good will and in Mrs Ps best 
interests, when DGI were under no obligation to offer it. Im glad to see DGI have already agreed to do this. But, as this direction and agreement has come after DGIs final response 
to Mrs Ps complaint, its one I must now direct as part of my overall decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mrs P £359.98 plus 8% simple interest from the date she paid this amount, to 
the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman