DRN-2423558
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly closed his account, registered a CIFAS 
fraud marker and wouldnt allow him access to his money.
What happened
Mr R was told by Barclays that his account would be restricted and found out that the marker 
was registered. Although he was told he could go to a branch to get access to his money 
that was incorrect. And he says he had to make three branch visits with a broken leg and 
was dealt with rudely. He and his family had to borrow money from others. And then 
Barclays decided to re-open his account and remove the marker. It had offered to pay him 
£400 in compensation, but he didnt think that this was sufficient.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr R be paid £600 in 
compensation. Barclays had received a report that Mr R had received fraudulent funds on 24 
April 2020, and it had added a CIFAS marker on 30 April 2020. It had decided to close his 
account on 1 May 2020 but had reversed this decision on 19 May 2020 and removed the 
marker. It had clarified that the reason for telling Mr R his account would be closed was 
because it had found he was using it for business purposes. 
In line with guidance from CIFAS Barclays was required to have sufficient evidence to show 
that Mr R had attempted or committed a fraud or financial crime. By its own admission it 
didnt have this. So, while it was appropriate to block the account while it investigated this it 
shouldnt have added the marker. There was no real justification to close the account without 
warning when it discovered Mr R was using the account for business purposes. 
Mr R had explained the amount of time he had spent on the telephone to Barclays and that 
he had to visit three times to access the remaining money in his account of over £4,000. He 
was overdrawn for the first time ever at a different financial business and had to borrow 
money from relatives which was embarrassing. He felt very stressed and felt that he couldnt 
cope as his money and his ability to work on a self-employed basis was affected. This all 
happened during a global pandemic when everything was more difficult and complicated. 
Barclays didnt agree that the increased compensation was appropriate and asked that an 
ombudsman review this. These problems were all resolved within a three-week period and it 
said its offer was fair. 
Mr R said he would accept this amount having previously indicated that he wanted about 
£2,000 when asked by Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here I dont need to make findings about the CIFAS marker or account closure as Barclays 
has accepted it didnt have a reasonable basis for either. The issue I am looking at is 
compensation for what happened. And I can see that Barclays has taken what happened 
seriously and already made an offer to Mr R. I dont think it has a basis to dispute what it 
says about the impact on him. And that when he was in a branch desperate to get access to 
his money as he was told he would be able to have done that he was escorted out and felt 
humiliated. It is accepted that this was all a very unfortunate set of circumstances.
Putting things right
The amount of compensation is a matter for my judgement taking into account our published 
guidelines about trouble and upset. I can see from Barclays case notes that it notionally 
calculated its offer on the basis of £150 for the immediate closure of the account, £100 for 
the incorrect loading at CIFAS and £150 for the incorrect information and poor service. We 
tend to look at things as a whole, but I do think that important aggravating factors were the 
delay in allowing Mr R access to his money especially when there was no basis to think he 
had been involved in fraud and the inconvenience of the related repeated branch visits. 
Having listened to a call Mr R had with this service I can appreciate the specific stress that 
this matter caused him.
He has said he will accept £600. Having considered this carefully I agree with our 
investigators reasoning for the increase and find that £600 is the appropriate and fair 
amount to reflect what happened to Mr R in these specific set of circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr R 
£600 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman