DRN-1724062
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs H says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 1999, it was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs H said, in summary, she:
wasn't told about PPI or given an option to take it, she was just told to sign the form 
where the store assistant placed the crosses. She said she was at the front of the till 
and it was done in a hurry. She said she remembered it well, because it was the first 
store card she ever took out. 
wasn't told about the costs and benefits, instead she was led to believe she was 
paying for a 'price promise' if the item was reduced, she would get money back. 
only took out the card to get a discount on the items she was buying at the time.
didn't need or want PPI because she was in work and would've got sick pay if she 
couldn't work. Also her family would've helped with her repayments.
she was recommended to take the PPI.
she changed jobs after taking the PPI and her new employer would've covered her 
sick pay.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. Mrs H said she was told she 
would get discount and the 'price promise' if she took out the store card and PPI wasnt 
explained to her. AXA has provided a copy of Mrs H's store card application form. The form had a separate 
section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected and Mrs H signed separately next to 
the selection to say she wanted PPI. I think it likely that there was some kind of discussion 
about the additional features Mrs H wanted as the section on the form for card protection 
and getting an additional card, which were immediately below, were crossed through. As Mrs 
H was signing an important financial document, I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect 
her to take the time she needed to read over the form before signing it. The paperwork made 
it clear that PPI was optional. So I think its likely AXA made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it.
Looking at the paperwork, and based on what Mrs H has said about the sales process itself, 
I think it unlikely that she was recommended to buy the PPI. I think it more likely that this 
was a non advised sale. What that means is that the store assistant didn't have to check 
that PPI was right for Mrs H. But AXA did have to make sure Mrs H got clear information so 
she could make and informed choice and decide if she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So, I have gone on to look at whether she has lost out because of this. 
Mrs H has told us she wouldve got sick pay from her employer. She said her family would've 
helped out with her repayments. I have to look at her circumstances at the time of sale. Mrs 
H's mentioned moving to a different employer with better sickness benefits afterwards. But, 
that wouldn't have been known at the time she took the insurance, so I haven't placed any 
weight on this when deciding this complaint. And whilst I accept her family may have wanted 
to help with her repayments, help of this kind can't be guaranteed, so I haven't placed any 
reliance on this. The PPI would have paid out on top of Mrs H's sick pay and possibly for 
longer than her work benefits wouldve covered her for. The policy wouldve paid up to 15% 
of her balance until she was no longer sick or her balance was cleared. Overall, I still think 
the PPI could have been useful to her and I can't see that it was unaffordable.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs H's circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she couldve benefited 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Mrs H has lost out because of anything that 
AXA did wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
I've taken into account everything that Mrs H has said, including that another business has 
agreed to repay her some commission. She says she is being given conflicting information 
about whether any commission is repayable. As our adjudicator explained, as AXA is not the 
'lender',  AXA isn't liable to repay Mrs H any commission. The other business which has 
offered to repay her  some commission may be taking responsibility as the 'lender'.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs H's complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman