DRN-3192944
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of a claim 
under his car insurance policy. 
Mr N is represented by his father also Mr N. I will refer to the policy holder Mr N in my 
decision.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr N was involved in an incident whilst driving his car and a third party was 
injured. Mr N was arrested. At the time he had no fixed abode and all his possessions were 
in the car. He says this includes multiple items of good quality clothing, a gold chain worth 
around £1,000, three bottles of alcoholic spirits, toolboxes, and a photo of his deceased 
mother. These items were disposed of when the car was repaired by RSA. 
Mr N says RSA didnt contact him or his solicitor to try to return his belongings. He says the 
photo of his deceased mother cannot be replaced and the chain was a gift from his father. 
Mr N wants £5,000 compensation in total for the loss of his belongings.
RSA says when the car was delivered to its repairer it refused to touch anything in the 
vehicle due to the risk posed by needles and other potential hazards present. It arranged for 
a cleaning specialist to remove the items and carry out a clean. RSA says Mr Ns policy 
doesnt provide cover for personal possessions left in the vehicle. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it offered £400 compensation because it hadnt contacted Mr N before destroying 
his belongings. 
Mr N didnt think this was enough and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She found no evidence of the missing items having been in the 
car. Although she agreed RSA shouldve contacted Mr N before his belongings were 
destroyed, she thought its offer of £400 compensation was fair.
Mr N disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not going to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr N, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
RSA says Mr Ns policy doesnt provide cover for personal belongings, so there is no 
insurable loss regarding the contents. The terms of the policy confirm this. I accept there is 
no insurance cover in place for the loss claimed. But the complaint here is that RSA acted 
inappropriately by disposing of Mr Ns belongings and that it is at fault for this loss, 
regardless of there being no cover. I have thought about whether this view is supported by 
the available evidence.  
Mr Ns car was held by the police from the beginning of October 2020 until it was delivered 
to RSAs repairer, around a month later in November. The repairer had been informed that 
the car contained needles, syringes and spoons as well as body fluid. It took photos of the 
car on arrival and I have looked through these photos in detail. 
I cant identify any of the items reported by Mr N. There is a handwritten sign warning of 
sharps in the car. The front passenger footwell is filled with empty drink and food 
packaging, cigarette lighters and general rubbish. As is the drivers side footwell. On the 
drivers seat there are two mobile phones. One is obviously damaged. There is a container 
on the front passenger seat that contains a syringe and razors amongst other items. In the 
rear footwells are more lighters, a soiled rag, a plastic bag and some rubbish. The boot is 
full. It contains a sleeping bag, a bundle of clothes. One item has a B&M logo, no other 
labels are visible, and there are some plastic bags. 
I dont dispute Mr Ns account of what was in the car when he was last in it. But I havent 
seen any evidence to show the items claimed were present when the car was delivered to 
RSAs repairer. 
Given the risk posed by the presence of needles and the unsanitary condition of the car, its 
reasonable that the repairer didnt want to risk touching the contents. RSA says its cleaning 
contractor subsequently bagged up the contents of the car before cleaning it. It contacted 
the cleaning contractor in 2021, after a complaint was raised, to find out what happened to 
these bags. I understand it hasnt received a response. 
We asked Mr N to provide evidence supporting his claim that the missing items were in the 
car. He hasnt done so. I acknowledge his comments that its unreasonable to expect photos 
of the lost items to be available. Also, that all his belongings were in the car as he had 
nowhere to live at the time. And, nothing in that car was cheap or rubbish. He says the car 
was searched by the police, and they will have, ripped out searched then dumped back, 
which is why the car looked like it did. 
I sympathise with Mr N that he has lost items of sentimental value, as well as the other 
items. But I have seen no evidence, photographic or otherwise that any of the items were in 
the car when it was delivered to RSA, which was around a month after the incident occurred.  
I agree that Mr N or his representative should have been contacted before his belongings 
were destroyed. But I think its reasonable that RSA acknowledged this failure and paid £400 
to compensate him.   
In summary I dont think RSA treated Mr N fairly when disposing of his belongings without 
contacting him first. But it acted fairly in acknowledging this failure and paying him £400 
compensation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman