DRN-3685699
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund money she lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
Miss H was looking for an investment opportunity online. After leaving her details on a 
website, she was contacted by someone claiming to represent an investment company. After 
investing a small sum via a card payment, which appeared to increase in value, between 
March and April 2021 Miss H sent £2,702 to a cryptocurrency exchange before sending 
cryptocurrency on to a fraudster. During this period she was able to withdraw £44.01 from 
her cryptocurrency account. 
In August 2021, with her investment now apparently worth almost £30,000, Miss H asked to 
withdraw her money. She was told that she needed to pay fees in order to have her money 
released  first £2,000 and, when told that amount hadnt reached its destination, a further 
£1,000.
When she still didnt receive her profits, Miss H realised shed been scammed. She 
complained to NatWest arguing that it should have done more to protect her from financial 
harm from fraud, but it said that she should complain to the cryptocurrency exchange  as 
the funds had been sent to an account in her own name. It did, however, acknowledge that it 
hadnt provided a good level of service to her, so paid Miss H £75 compensation.
Miss H referred the matter to our service, but one of our investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said that given the size, nature and frequency of the transactions, NatWest 
couldnt have reasonably been expected to identify that Miss H was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud.
Miss H, through her representatives, disagreed they provided a breakdown of the activity on 
her account which showed that the payments were highly unusual compared to her normal 
account activity. It also said that she didnt set up new payees on her account and had never 
previously made a payment to a cryptocurrency provider, all of which ought to have caused 
NatWest concern.
It said the Financial Conduct Authority has issued warnings about cryptocurrency and had 
NatWest warned her about the dangers of investing in cryptocurrency, she would not have 
proceeded.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss H carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit under 
deception. Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017, that 
means she is responsible for the loss in the first instance. It also appears to be accepted by 
Miss H and her representatives that the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code which obliges its signatories to reimburse victims of 
APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances, does not cover the 
payments Miss H made. The CRM Code does not cover card payments and any transaction 
must be made to another person. In this case, I understand that the bank transfers Miss H 
made went, initially, to her own cryptocurrency account. So, the CRM Code does not apply.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I have every sympathy for Miss H  having lost out as a result of a cruel scam all in an 
attempt to make a better life for her and her family. But, I dont think NatWest are 
responsible for her loss, Ill explain why.
While I accept there are risks associated with cryptocurrency, Im not of the view that each 
and every transaction that goes to a cryptocurrency provider ought to provoke an 
intervention from the bank. Instead, I would only expect a bank to intervene and provide a 
verbal warning when there were reasonable grounds to suspect fraud.
Ive reviewed Miss Hs bank statements for a period of several years prior to the scam. While 
I acknowledge that the payments in dispute are higher in value than her typical spending, it 
doesnt appear that Miss H was using this account as her current account. The 
overwhelming majority of payments, both in and out, seem to be related to an online 
marketplace. I cant see any regular credits out of the account, nor regular payments for bills 
or everyday spending. Some of the payments Miss H made were funded by credits to her 
account and my impression is that this account was used more like a savings account than a 
current account. Given the relatively sparse and intermittent account usage, I think it was 
harder for NatWest to understand what typical account activity was and identify whether 
Miss H was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive thought about the pattern of transactions which took place. After the initial small 
payments, the payments didnt significantly increase in value over the period of the fraud and 
there was around four months between some of the payments. Miss Hs representatives 
point to the two payments which took place on successive days in August 2021 as indicative 
of fraud (these payments do not appear to have taken place on the same day, as has 
previously been suggested). I dont agree that two payments, of that size, over successive 
days ought to have unduly concerned NatWest, though if such a pattern continued my view 
may have been different. The size of the payments is not a determinative factor here, but it does need to be taken into 
account. While they werent of an insignificant size, they didnt suggest a heightened risk of 
fraud. In striking a balance between intervening to protect customers from financial harm and 
not unduly inconveniencing them, I think NatWest can fairly take into account the size of any 
potential loss to a customer. 
In relation to the recovery of funds, although NatWest did attempt to recover Miss Hs funds, 
because we know that Miss H sent her money to a cryptocurrency platform and converted it 
into cryptocurrency, before sending it to the fraudster, NatWest would have no prospect of 
recovering the funds. 
There appears to be almost no information available about the initial card payment Miss H 
made. Its not clear from her statements who the recipient of that payment was. I also cant 
see that it was initially raised as part of the scam (though I can see that her representatives 
raised it later). Miss H wasnt aware there was a problem with this payment until August 
2021  around 5 months after the payment was made. I understand this was a Visa card 
payment and, as such, under the relevant chargeback scheme rules, a customer would 
normally have 120 days to dispute a payment. So, NatWest would not have been able to 
dispute this payment when the scam claim was raised and Ive already explained why I dont 
think this payment, or any of the others, should have given NatWest cause for concern. 
Finally Ive looked at the way NatWest handled Miss Hs claim. Im sorry to hear that 
NatWest unfairly raised Miss Hs hopes of a refund. I also agree that it ought to have raised 
a complaint for her at an earlier point. However, I cannot hold NatWest liable for Miss Hs 
loss because it provided poor service. I also have to take into account that the majority of 
Miss Hs distress has been caused by the fraudsters, not NatWest. So, I think the £75 
compensation already paid fairly reflects the impact on her of NatWests actions. 
Overall, I dont think NatWest have made a mistake in declining to reimburse Miss H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman