DRN-3540174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2016, Mr and Mrs P were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs P decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs P to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan (but it will actually take 20 
years when the interest on the loan is taken into account);
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
The CMC also submitted that the system was not of satisfactory quality, based on its 
performance, and that this was a breach of contract.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the sales documentation on which the adjudicator had relied (Ps quote) had not said 
that the system would pay for itself in 20 years, but in only 13 years; and
the quote was long and complicated, and unsophisticated consumers would find it 
difficult to understand  the CMC described it as a plethora of facts, figures and 
charts.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs P could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs P and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Ps testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system 
less the deposit), the interest to be charged, the total amount payable (£15,965.60), the term 
of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs P, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ps version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
I do not agree that the quote is as complicated as the CMC suggests; I think it is clear and 
accessible. I will elaborate on this below. Nevertheless, I do agree that the quote still failed 
to make clear that the system would not pay for the loan within the loan term. That would 
have been evident to Mr and Mrs P if they had compared the quote with the loan agreement, 
but I think  in line with our services usual approach in these cases  that it should not have 
been necessary to compare the two documents with each other to find this out. Rather, it 
should have been made clear to them just from reading the quote alone.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs P that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs P have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ps recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs P could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £180.29, which results in an average monthly income of about 
£15. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £84.53. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs P were told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs P could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £168.02 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs P, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £499.51. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
I am satisfied that the above matters were set out in a clear and accessible manner.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs P entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £84.53. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £85.92, but the difference  £1.39  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £84.53, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for the first 14 years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments until year 15.
I think that this information is presented clearly, and this table appears immediately above 
Mrs Ps signature, so Im satisfied that it was brought to her attention.
Overall, I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive 
from the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my 
finding above that Mr and Mrs P werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the 
loan repayments.)
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ps version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs P that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.39 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). As I have said, that section of the quote has been 
signed by Mrs P, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her and her husbands 
attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the 
meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs P were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 30 
years. This shows that it would take 13 years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs P could 
expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. The small print at the bottom is 
legible in the quote. (But in case it is too small when it is reproduced in my decision, it says: 
The estimated payback time is based on cash purchase. Note: The payback time will 
fluctuate dependant on any finance taken against the system.) However, I still think that 
very small print could be overlooked by someone who just glanced at the 13 years  which 
is in very large print  and did not study it carefully.
I think the 13-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2. This figure also appears in the Putting it all together section, but this time without 
any small print to explain that this timescale is based on the cash price of the system, and 
not on the total cost of the loan.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This also shows that during year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs P could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,411. (To save space, I have 
only set out the rows for years 1, 12 and 13.)
The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£15,965.60, would be reached by the end of year 20. But that amount is not shown in the 
quote  it is only in the loan agreement. And I have already said above, I think this should 
have been readily apparent from the quote alone, without having to compare it with another 
document.
Summary
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs P that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 13 years, as supported by the graph and the table above, which were both 
included in the quote. But I currently do not think that P did enough to highlight to Mr and 
Mrs P that the system would not pay for the loan within the loan term. On balance, I think 
this misled them and induced them to enter into the contract.
I am therefore minded to require Shawbrook to put things right in line with our services usual 
approach when upholding solar panels complaints.
Responses to my provisional decision
Shawbrook did not accept my provisional findings. After consulting P, it made a number of 
arguments setting out why the quote had made it clear that the system would not pay for the 
cost of the loan within the loan term. I put those points to the CMC, which consulted Mr and 
Mrs P and then sent me their response in their own words. I have given careful attention to 
the responses from both parties. I will summarise each in turn, together with my own 
conclusions about them.
Shawbrooks response
The 13-year estimated payback time in the Putting it all together section does clearly state 
that the finance charge has not been included, if the two boxes immediately above are 
considered.
I agree with this point. The estimated payback time should not be read in isolation, but in 
conjunction with the other boxes. That not only makes it clear that the 13 year timescale is 
only about the cash price, but I think it would also alert the reader to the fact that it would 
take longer than that to pay for the loan  and that this might be longer than the 15-year loan 
term.
Shawbrook also pointed out that I had failed to consider the following graph on page 6 of the 
quote, which does take into account the cost of the finance. It shows clearly that the loan 
repayments will always exceed the returns from the system each year. The orange line 
shows the monthly loan payments, and the green line is labelled profit.
Shawbrook also made some other points, which I found a bit less persuasive than the ones 
I have described above. But the excerpts I have shown above are enough to persuade me 
that my original impression of the quote was wrong, and that the quote does in fact make it 
clear that the system would not pay for itself within the loan term.
Mr and Mrs Ps response
Mr and Mrs P said that the salesman had not shown them any paperwork until long after the 
sales meeting, and that if they had seen the quote then they would not have purchased the 
system.
I have thought about this, but I am not persuaded by it. Firstly, Mrs P has signed the quote, 
on page 11 directly under the 180 months repayment table, and again on page 24. 
Secondly, I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr and Mrs P simply took the salesmans 
word for it when he told them that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  
paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without at any point 
asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that they have simply 
forgotten seeing the quote over the four and a half years between the sale and the bringing 
of their claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I still remain satisfied that the quotation did 
form a central part of the sales process when Mr and Mrs P agreed to enter into the contract.
Mr and Mrs P also said that the salesman told them that after 10 years they would begin to 
make a profit. But I cannot reconcile that with the estimated payback time of 13 years to pay 
for the cash price of the panels, which Im satisfied they were told about.
(Mr and Mrs P added some new complaint issues, but I cannot consider those in this 
decision as they were not raised with Shawbrook in the original claim in 2020.)
Conclusion
So, for all of the reasons I have given above, I have changed my mind, and can no longer 
uphold this complaint. I regret that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman