DRN-3988222
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr S had motor insurance with Mulsanne. He had an accident on 24 April 2022 and his car 
was deemed uneconomical to repair. An independent engineer assessed the damage to Mr 
Ss vehicle, and it was noted that the left-hand front tyre thread was below the legal limit. Mr 
Ss claim was declined as a result, but he said it was declined unfairly because the tyre had 
been replaced before the accident and was within the legal limit. Mr S provided an 
engineers report to support his argument. Mr S also said the service he received from 
Mulsanne was poor and confusing because it initially accepted his claim, but later changed 
its position. 
Mulsanne said its report was more reliable because it was taken two days after the accident. 
The report highlighted the tyre in question measured a tread of 1.5mm and that the legal limit 
was 1.6mm. It dismissed Mr Ss report saying itd been taken weeks after the accident. 
Our investigator said Mulsanne declined the claim fairly because it had relied on the 
independent report to do so. He said that report was more persuasive because it was carried 
out independently and within 48 hours of the accident having taken place. He also agreed 
the service offered by Mulsanne was poor and noted itd taken three weeks to reach a 
decision on liability. He recommended Mulsanne pay Mr S £100 compensation in recognition 
of that.
Mulsanne agreed to pay the compensation. But Mr S disagreed. He reaffirmed his argument 
that the tyre had been replaced and was within the legal limit. He referred to the MOT test 
certificate on November 2021 which noted the tyre-ware and explained hed replaced them. 
He believes the engineer sent by Mulsanne made a mistake and so requested an 
ombudsman to make a final decision  which is what Ill go on to do.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I decided to uphold it in part. I agree with our investigators opinion and 
mainly for the same reasons hes already explained. I think the £100 compensation is fair 
because there were times where communication became confusing, in particular, when it 
was explaining the positions of the tyres. Mulsanne interchangeably referred to the left-hand 
side and off-side tyre, which I think could have been simplified as it was clear Mr S was 
having difficulty understanding the terminology. 
Further, I agree Mulsanne had enough information to reach the right decision sooner than it 
did, thus causing unnecessary delays and confusion about whether the claim had been 
accepted. Consequentially, Mr S received a pay out from his GAP insurance provider, 
because Mulsanne mistakenly told him itd accepted his claim. 
Ive considered whether Mulsanne declined Mr Ss claim fairly and Im satisfied it did. I say 
that because it relied on independent specialist evidence to determine whether to accept 
liability. To be clear, the policy terms say;
The insurer will not cover any injury, loss or damage caused while your car is:
Being driven in an unsafe, unroadworthy or damaged condition or where your car does not 
have a valid Department of Transport test certificate (MOT) if one is required by law
This means it was Mr Ss responsibility to maintain the vehicle to a roadworthy standard. The 
engineers report taken two days after the accident persuasively demonstrates this wasnt 
the case. The tyre tread depth was below the legal standard. And, therefore, Mulsanne 
declined the claim fairly because the under-tread tyre was unsafe and unroadworthy as 
determined by the specialists report in April 2022. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss arguments about the engineer making an error and his comments 
about the MOT report. But Im not persuaded by what hes said here. Theres no evidence to 
support that an error had been made. Further, the MOT report from November highlights the 
tyre in question was nearing the legal limit as it was noted in the advisory section of the 
certificate. In addition, the evidence Mr S provided to show the tyre had been changed was 
related to a different tyre altogether. And so, I dont find this persuasive in the circumstances 
as it appears the tyre in question wasnt replaced, despite it being advised some four months 
prior to the accident.  
I also wanted to acknowledge Mr Ss engineers report from July 2022. This report says the 
tyre tread depth is within the legal limit. But, like our investigator explained, this was 
completed months after the accident. And so, I dont think I can accurately rely on it to show 
the condition of the tyre in question at the time of the accident.  
It's for these reasons, I dont consider Mulsanne to have declined Mr Ss claim unfairly. But I 
do think the service offered was, at times, poor and so £100 compensation is awarded to Mr 
S. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must now 
pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But it need not 
take any further action in respect of its claims decision because I think it declined Mr Ss 
claim fairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman