DRN-2588639
The complaint
Ms C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) unfairly recorded 
late payments on her credit file. She would like the credit file amended.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Shop Directs terms and conditions make it clear that failure to make minimum 
monthly payments can impact on a consumers credit file. Although Ms C had an 
agreed repayment plan it didnt cover the minimum required each month.  So, I dont 
think Shop Direct were wrong to record her payments as late or missed ones.
Shop Direct has accepted it didnt make the impact on her credit file clear to Ms C 
when it agreed a repayment plan in 2018.  As the terms and conditions dont appear 
to refer to the situation with credit files when agreed repayment plans are in place, I 
think it should have explained this to Miss C at the time
Shop Direct sent Ms C a cheque for £30 for the inconvenience. And has offered to 
amend her credit file for the period March 2018 to April 2019 to show an agreed 
repayment plan was in place. I think  this is a fair offer, but Ms C has declined this as 
she feels this would put her in a worse position. I am not sure why that is.
I understand  Ms C had a prior agreed repayment plan in place in 2017.  I have no 
information to conclude if she was aware of the impact on her credit file at this time or 
not . As Shop Direct has  offered to amend Ms Cs credit file for the repayment plan 
agreed in 2018, I think its likely, if it believed it hadnt been clear in 2017, it would 
have offered to do the same for 2017. So, I see no reason to ask it to amend Ms Cs 
credit file back to 2017 particularly as Ms C doesnt want Shop Direct to note her 
repayment plan on her credit file from 2018 . On this basis so I think its likely  she 
would feel the same about such a note for 2017. 
Finally, I have considered if Ms C would have gone ahead with the plan in 2018 had 
she been aware of the impact on her credit file. As she was having financial 
difficulties making the minimum payments, I think its likely, whilst she might not have 
wanted to do so , she would have still gone ahead with the repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman