The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC repeatedly sent text messages to their 
daughter, which contained information about their joint account. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr R have a joint account with Barclays, which theyve held since 1975. They stated 
that, in November 2014, their daughter received a text message from Barclays detailing the 
banking transactions they had recently undertaken. They say their daughter contacted 
Barclays on receiving the text message to explain it contained information about her parents' 
account. But she was told to delete the message as she didnt, at that time, hold any 
accounts with it.
In December 2014 and January 2015 Mrs and Mr R say their daughter received further text 
messages from Barclays, which detailed payments and standing orders that had been set up 
on their joint account.  
Mrs and Mr R were very concerned that their daughter was receiving information by text 
about their private banking matters without their authority. They felt Barclays had breached 
its duty to keep their accounts confident. And they were concerned there may have been 
data protection breaches elsewhere. So, they contacted Barclays to ask it to stop texting 
their daughter.
When Mrs and Mr R discussed what had happened with Barclays they said it was 
apologetic. But it was unable to explain why their daughter had been receiving text 
messages about their account as there was no instruction set up authorising it to use her 
number to communicate with them. They say Barclays told them it would refer what had 
happened to its IT department. Some time later Mrs and Mr R said Barclays assured them 
the issue had been resolved  so their daughter would no longer be receiving 
communications about their account.
However, during summer 2015 and November 2016, Mrs and Mr Rs daughter continued to 
receive text messages about transactions her parents had made. Mrs and Mr R said they 
contacted Barclays again to register their concerns about what was happening and to ask it 
to stop texting their daughter. But they said they were, again, informed by Barclays that it 
wasnt able to explain why their daughter was receiving text messages about their joint 
account. And they said Barclays referred the issue to its IT department, which wasnt able to 
remedy the problem.
Mrs and Mr R stated they further contacted Barclays during early 2018 to ask it to stop 
texting their daughter. They said they were given assurances that the issue had been 
resolved. However, in June 2018 their daughter received a further text message following a 
transaction Mrs and Mr R made to their other daughter. They said this caused a family 
argument. 
DRN-1515230Mrs and Mr R said they raised their concerns again with Barclays about what had happened 
and asked it to stop texting their daughter. However, in 2019, their daughter continued to 
receive text messages. So, they complained to Barclays. 
When Barclays responded to Mrs and Mr Rs complaint it explained their daughter had 
received text messages about transactions on her parents account because her mobile 
telephone number had been applied to Mrs Rs customer profile on 6 September 2013. 
Barclays said, in being given Mrs and Mr Rs daughters number, it had been given authority 
to use it when communicating with Mrs R by text message. And it therefore didnt agree it 
had breached confidentiality or compromised the security of Mrs and Mr Rs account.
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to their complaint Mrs and Mr R referred it to our 
service. Our investigator assessed all the evidence Barclays and Mrs and Mr R provided our 
service. But they didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they concluded that Barclays had 
neither made a mistake nor treated Mrs and Mr R unfairly. But Mrs and Mr R disagreed and 
asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs and Mr R experienced here. I can understand how 
theyve suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of personal information regarding 
their account being been sent to their daughter by Barclays. However, my role is to assess 
whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr R unfairly, such that it needs 
to now put things right
I can see that Mrs and Mr R have made a number of detailed points, which I've read and 
considered. I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ill address at the outset Mrs and Mr Rs concerns that Barclays may have breached data 
protection legislation and their account security. However, I havent seen any evidence of 
that. And theres nothing to suggest that anyone, other than Mrs and Mr Rs daughter, has 
received information about their joint account. In any event, I should explain that its not our 
role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. Thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office but, overall, I dont think Barclays has done anything 
wrong here.  
Ill turn now to the information Mrs and Mr Rs daughter received by text message about her 
parents account. Barclays told Mrs and Mr R that their daughters mobile telephone number 
was added to Mrs Rs customer profile in September 2013. But I understand that Mrs and Mr 
R dispute they provided this number to Barclays or gave it authority to use it. 
Our investigator asked Barclays to provide our service with evidence to show Mrs and Mr 
Rs daughters number was added to Mrs Rs customer profile in 2013. However, its unable 
to do so because the number has since been removed. Its IT records demonstrate that 
Barclays is correct in what it says here though. Having thought carefully about how Mrs and Mr Rs daughters number came to be known by 
Barclays Im satisfied this must have been provided by Mrs or Mr R directly. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs and Mr Rs daughter wasnt a Barclays customer until June 
2018. Her number therefore couldnt have been transferred over to Mrs Rs customer profile 
in error in 2013 given that this happened around five years before she opened her account. I 
think whats most likely here is that Mrs or Mr R provided the number in question to Barclays. 
It couldnt have obtained the number in any other way. 
Im satisfied, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, that the telephone number in 
question was given to Barclays as a means to communicate with Mrs R about her joint 
account with Mr R. It follows that I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays made an error in 
using that number.
Mrs and Mr R told our service that their daughter received text messages detailing their 
banking transactions from around 2014. And they say Barclays was made aware of the 
problem in around 2015. I can see that Barclays refutes this  it states the first time it was 
aware of the issue was when Mrs and Mr R contacted it to complain in March 2019.
I dont doubt what Mrs and Mr R say about the length of time over which this problem 
persisted. Its perfectly plausible, given that their daughters number was applied to Mrs Rs 
profile in 2013. So, I can understand how, since that time, she would have received text 
messages detailing transactions about her parents joint bank account.
However, while Mrs and Mr R say they raised this issue with Barclays in around 2015 the 
customer notes Barclays has provided our service dont evidence that it was made aware of 
this problem prior to March 2019. And Barclays has told our service its reviewed previous 
complaints made by Mrs and Mr R  but has no documented history of them raising a 
complaint about this issue prior to March 2019. 
Ive carefully considered Barclays records. Its clear very detailed notes were made about 
the complaint issue Mrs and Mr R raised with our service from March 2019 onwards. I think if 
they'd raised concerns about their daughter receiving text messages before that this would 
have been documented  even if their concerns had been raised on an informal basis with 
Barclays. So, in the absence of records that show Mrs and Mr R raised their complaint prior 
to March 2019, I cant fairly find it was aware of the problem before then.
Im satisfied that once Barclays was aware of the issue it acted proactively to identify why 
Mrs and Mr Rs daughter was receiving text messages about transactions on their account. It 
undertook a thorough investigation in efforts to understand why their daughter was receiving 
text messages relating to her parents account. And I can see that, once it established why 
this was happening, it provided an explanation to Mrs and Mr R and gave advice on how 
they could remove their daughters number from Mrs Rs customer profile.
Im pleased to see that Mrs and Mr Rs daughters mobile number has now been removed 
from Mrs Rs customer profile. Im therefore satisfied that this issue has now been resolved 
and is unlikely to happen in the future.
I dont doubt Mrs and Mr R have been caused distress and inconvenience due to text 
messages about their private banking affairs being sent to their daughter. However, as Ive 
already outlined, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that this was caused by an 
error Barclays made. So, while I acknowledge Mrs and Mr Rs strength of feelings about the 
issues raised in this complaint, I wont be upholding it.I realise Mrs and Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, 
in trying, to resolve their dispute with Barclays informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs and Mr R further with their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman