DRN-2458986
The complaint
Ms S had a car under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited. Ms S 
complains that, when her car was recovered in June 2019 and taken to auction, a number of 
personal items that were still in the car were lost. Ms S feels MotoNovo is responsible for this 
and wants it to compensate her for the cost of the items and for the upset shes had as a 
result of what happened.
What happened
In 2016 Ms S acquired a car with the benefit of a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
Ms S got into arrears with her payments and MotoNovo obtained permission from the courts 
to recover the car and for it to be sold.
Ms S says she wasnt given advance notice before the car was uplifted so that when the car 
was collected, she still had a number of items in the car including some recent purchases 
and items of sentimental value. Ms S feels Motonovo is responsible for the fact these items 
are now missing and wants it to refund her the cost of the items as well as compensating her 
for the distress caused by their loss.
Motonovo rejected the complaint. It said the vehicle was uplifted without keys and so the 
collection agents werent able to inspect the interior of the car at the time. However, it 
understood the agents had contacted Ms S prior to the collection but that she hadnt said 
anything about any items that would need to be removed. It also noted that the car had been 
at the auction house for two months before it was sold and that, during that time, Ms S 
hadnt been in contact about any missing items.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While hed taken into account what Ms S had 
said about the items in the car, there was no information to show what had been there at the 
time of collection. Hed seen that Ms S had provided some bank statements to support her 
claim but these didnt match with the items that she said had been lost. Hed also seen that, 
although the collection agent hadnt been able to look inside the car as he didnt have the 
keys, Ms S did have a set and would have been able to check the car and remove any items 
before it was removed. It appeared she hadnt done so.
He also taken into account that Ms S hadnt contacted Motonovo or the auction house for 
several months after the car was picked up. When shed told MotoNovo about the items at 
the end of August 2019, MotoNoo had contacted the auction house whod confirmed that 
they hadnt found any items in the car even after it had obtained a new set of keys and could 
examine it in more detail. For that reason, even if the items had been in the car when it was 
collected, our investigator didnt feel Motonovo was responsible for their loss or that it 
needed to compensate Ms S for the items.
Ms S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said in 
summary,
She hadnt been told when the car was to be uplifted and hadnt had the chance to 
remove all her possessions.
The car had been at the auction house for two months to allow them to get new keys 
cut, as theyd confirm if asked. However, she hadnt been told which auction house 
the car had been taken to and had had to call round to find the correct one. She felt 
this was unreasonable. 
She hadnt been able to provide a detailed receipt of the purchases as this was in the 
car with her purchases. However, shed provided evidence of her purchases as 
required by Motonovo and which MotoNovo had said would be enough for her to be 
compensated. This would be confirmed by her calls with Motonovo at the time.
The whole experience had been very stressful and in addition she was now out of 
pocket as well. She felt MotoNovo should compensate her for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres no clear information on any particular point, or the information available is 
unclear or disputed, then Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other 
words whats more likely than not to have happened taking into account the circumstances 
of the case and the information that has been provided.
Ive seen Ms S feels MotoNovo is responsible for the loss of a number of items that were in 
the car when it was uplifted. However, in order for me to direct MotoNovo to make a refund 
to Ms S or pay compensation, Id need to be satisfied that it had made a mistake in the way 
it dealt with this matter. 
I realise this isnt the decision Ms S was hoping for but, having reviewed the information, I 
dont agree that it has as Ill now explain.
Ive seen that Ms S fell into arrears with the payments under her hire purchase agreement. I 
appreciate this was very difficult time for Ms S but under the agreement MotoNovo was 
entitled to ask for the car to be returned. In 2019 the Courts agreed that MotoNovo was 
entitled to recover the car and arrangements were made through the courts service for the 
car to uplifted and taken to an auction house.
Ms S has provided some information about the items in the car. However, the information is 
limited and while thats understandable with regard to the older items, its also the case that 
the bank statements provided dont match with the new items that Ms S says would have 
been there. In the circumstances I cant reasonably say what items were in the car at this 
time and if so, their value.
But even if there were items in the car on collection I dont consider MotoNovo is responsible 
for their loss. Thats because I cant agree it did anything wrong on or after collection.
Ive seen Ms S says she wasnt told in advance when the car was to be collected and so she 
hadnt taken steps to make sure all her personal possessions were removed. The collection 
agents dispute this but even if Ms S wasnt aware of the precise date, I can see she was 
aware that a direction had been made by the court allowing the car to be collected and that 
attempts were made to contact her about this. In the circumstances I think it reasonable to 
expect Ms S would have arranged at that point to clear the car of any items that she wanted to keep. She didnt but for that reason I dont consider MotoNovo is responsible for any items 
not being removed prior to collection.
Ive also seen that because the keys werent made available on collection, the car couldnt 
be sold straight away and in fact the car wasnt sold until August 2019, some two months 
after it had been picked up. During this time I havent seen anything to show Ms S contacted 
MotoNovo to ask about the items in the car or to ask which auction house the car had gone 
to so she could contact them. Ive seen Ms S says she didnt know where the car had been 
taken but if shed asked MotoNovo I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have told her or 
made arrangement to contact the auction house direct.
Looking at the records for Ms Ss account Ive also seen she was in contact with MotoNovo 
and their agents several times between June and August but that no mention was made of 
the missing items until 30 August. Its possible that if Ms S had let MotoNovo know sooner, 
thered have been a greater chance of recovering any items but by the time she did so, the 
car had been sold. I realise this is disappointing for Ms S but, on that basis, I dont consider 
MotoNovo can be responsible for the loss of any items in the car after collection.
Ive seen, however, that when MotoNovo was told, it immediately contacted both the 
collection agents and the auction house to see if theyd found any items in the car on or after 
collection. Unfortunately for Ms S, they didnt have any record of any items but Im satisfied 
MotoNovo did all that it reasonably could at that time and that It dealt with the complaint 
fairly.
I understand Ms S may be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I 
cant agree MotoNovo is responsible for the loss of any items left in this car and, for that 
reason, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman