DRN-1738779
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed his business bank account. 
Mr W is being represented in his complaint by Mr M.
What happened
In April 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr W as they needed to complete a review of his business 
account and update their records - as they didnt have all the required information they 
needed on file.
HSBC didnt hear back from Mr W, so they sent chaser letters in May, June and July 2019. 
They said they would need the information by August 2019  and may have to give notice to 
close the account if they didnt receive it. As the review hadnt been completed, in
August 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr W informing him they would close the account in
October 2019.
Mr W visited the branch around this time. He said he and his wife had health issues in early 
2019 which had meant hed been unable to respond to HSBC. A call was scheduled 
between him and the relevant department, which took place in September 2019. Mr W said 
he answered the questions during the call and was told by HSBC everything was ok, and he 
could carry on banking as normal.
In December 2019 Mr W found out, while in a branch, his account had been closed because 
the review hadnt been completed. He raised a complaint with HSBC as he felt the account 
had been closed unfairly. He said the account closure tarnished his name and caused 
problems in paying suppliers.
HSBC said they wrote to Mr W in August 2019 providing notice that they were going close 
his account, and during the call in September 2019 they told him he needed to visit a branch 
and provide identification. They said when the documents werent provided, they tried to 
call Mr W but as they still didnt have them in December 2019, they closed the account. They 
didnt think theyd treated Mr W unfairly.  
Mr W was unhappy with HSBCs response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Mr W said he was also told he would receive a cheque for the closing balance within seven 
to ten days of the account closing. But he didnt receive it until around a month later which 
meant he had no access to his money from the business. Mr W said this caused further 
issues with making payments - which meant he had to use funds from his personal account
HSBC reviewed Mr Ws complaint again. They said although they felt theyd acted fairly in 
closing Mr Ws account, they agreed there were delays in him receiving the cheque for the 
closing balance. They offered Mr W around £2,491 for the interest he lost between the 
closure of the account and the cheque being issued, and £150 for the inconvenience caused 
by the delays.Our investigator upheld part of Mr Ws complaint. He said HSBC had attempted to contact 
Mr W a number of times and had made him aware they would close the account if they didnt 
receive all the required information. He said HSBC also told Mr W during the call in 
September 2019 that he needed to take photographic ID and a utility bill into the bank as 
proof of his address. So, he didnt think HSBC had acted unreasonably in closing the 
account.
Our Investigator agreed there had been delays in processing a cheque with Mr Ws closing 
balance and concluded the amount HSBC had offered to cover any lost interest was fair. 
However, he said the delays caused Mr W further issues in paying suppliers and as a result 
he had to use personal funds, so he recommended HSBC pay Mr W £300 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He said his account was not a business account, but 
a personal one. Mr W said he was told by HSBC the review was complete, and he could 
carry on banking as normal following the call in September 2019. He said he sometimes 
struggled to hear things on the phone and HSBC should have followed up the call with a 
letter, to make it clear what they needed him to do. 
He added that it was around seven weeks before he had access to the money from the 
account due to the delays issuing the cheque and needing to open an account at a new 
bank to pay it into.
The complaint has now passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said the account is a personal account and not a business one. But having looked at 
everything including notes from HSBCs system, Im satisfied the account is a business 
account.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part, Ill explain why.
I think the important event here is the call between Mr W and HSBC in September 2019.
Mr W says he was told the review was complete, but HSBC said they told Mr W they still 
needed him to provide some identification. I need to decide whether I think it was made clear 
to Mr W the review wasnt complete  and that he still needed to provide identification to 
HSBC. So Ive listened to the call.
At the end of the call HSBC said they had everything they needed today  so I can 
appreciate from that comment why Mr W might think this meant the review was complete. 
But following this HSBC also said what they needed going forward was a copy of some 
identification to verify Mr Ws address. HSBC then suggested he take a passport in as a form 
of identification, Mr W said he didnt have one - but did have a driving licence. 
So Im satisfied from the conversation that took place that HSBC did enough to make it clear 
to Mr W the review wasnt complete, and he still needed to provide identification.
HSBC discussed with Mr W when he could go into branch to provide the identification. It was 
agreed he would so by the end of September 2019. HSBC didnt receive this, so in 
November 2019 they called Mr W and he agreed to go into a branch. Mr W still hadnt visited 
the branch by December 2019, so they closed his account.Ive also thought about what Mr W said about health issues preventing him from contacting 
HSBC before August 2019  and Id expect HSBC to have taken this into consideration. 
HSBC initially said the account would be closed in October 2019 if Mr W hadnt completed 
the review, but they didnt do this until December 2019, so I think they have acted 
reasonably here.
So, I dont think HSBC treated Mr W unfairly in closing his account. HSBC told Mr W what 
would happen if they couldnt complete the review, and during the call in September 2019 I 
think they made it clear they still needed identification from Mr W. They tried to contact
Mr W when they still hadnt received it and, as it still wasnt provided, around three months 
after the call, the account was closed.
Putting things right
HSBC accepted there were delays processing and sending Mr W the cheque with his closing 
balance. When a financial business has done something wrong, Id expect them to put their 
customer back in the position theyd have been in had this not happened.
When the account was closed Mr W was told he would receive a cheque in around seven 
days - but I can see it was almost a month before it was issued and sent to him. So I think 
their offer to pay Mr W any lost interest between the account being closed and the cheque 
being issued is fair. Mr W said he was unhappy as it was around seven weeks before he 
could access the money. But as I dont think HSBC were unfair to close his account, I cant 
hold them responsible for the length of time the funds took to clear into his new bank 
account once the cheque was issued. 
However, Ive also thought about the inconvenience the delays caused to Mr Ws business.  
Mr W said the delays in receiving the money caused issues with paying suppliers and as he 
was not able to use his business funds, he had to use personal money. Taking everything 
into account I think £300 compensation is a fair amount for HSBC to pay Mr W for the 
delays, as I feel it fairly reflects the inconvenience it caused his business.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ws complaint. To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should:
Pay Mr W any interest lost on the account between the date the account was closed 
and the day the cheque was issued
Pay Mr W £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused to his business
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman