DRN-2679624
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the information he was given by NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua), when 
he contacted them to query the balance on his credit card account.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im not satisfied Aqua did enough to explain to Mr B during the webchat of 16 
January 2020, that the balance they had given him might not include other pending 
transactions. I appreciate these transactions may not have been visible until 20 
January 2020. However, I think the chat handler could have said disclosed that there 
might be other transactions pending that they couldnt see. Instead they suggested 
that all transactions up to 13 January 2020 were included. 
If they had done so, I think its most likely that Mr B wouldnt have spent over his 
credit limit. However, I think they have acted fairly by paying Mr B £40 compensation 
for this, as well as refunding £24 of over-limit charges and £15.18 in interest.
When querying during another webchat why his credit card account had gone over 
the credit limit, Mr B told Aqua that they had put him in a really difficult position, I 
dont want to be charged a late fee or to be charged anything more until the 13th, and 
if possible the interest frozen until then, so I can arrange paying enough on the 13th 
to clear the outstanding over limit balance. Im therefore satisfied Mr B put Aqua on 
notice that he needed help.
Whilst the original chat handler appeared sympathetic to the hardship that Mr B was 
declaring, he was transferred to the customer care team. After quite a delay, Mr B 
was told that his complaint would be responded to within eight weeks. However, 
nothing more was done until the final response letter of 27 February 2020, when the 
charges and interest were refunded. I dont think Aqua did enough here to address 
Mr Bs request for help.
Whilst I can see there had been a further conversation on 5 February 2020 and Mr B 
seemed to have focused on when he would receive a response to his complaint, I still 
think that Aqua could have done more to treat Mr B more sympathetically, sooner.
Im satisfied this caused Mr B some trouble and upset until he received the final 
response and was able to bring the balance down below the limit, at the beginning of 
March 2020. It follows that I agree with the investigator that Aqua should pay Mr B 
£100 in recognition of the trouble and upset it caused him is fair. 
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Putting things right
NewDay Ltd should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him. 
This is in addition to the £40 compensation already paid to him, and the refund of interest 
and charges.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against NewDay Ltd and direct it to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman