DRN-3453022
The complaint
Ms B (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete proper affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility or at each new instance of borrowing. 
What happened
Ms B approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in June 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms B was not advanced a payday loan. 
Ms B was initially given a facility with a £200 limit in June 2017. Her limit was then 
decreased to £160 in January 2018. 
Ms B has had some problems repaying the facility and SNC has told the Financial 
Ombudsman Service that as of February 2022 Ms B still owed it £183.88.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Bs complaint and he though SNC shouldnt have 
granted the facility because in his view, Ms B was spending a significant amount of money 
each month on gambling transactions.
Ms Bs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but no further 
comments were provided.
 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Ms B to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Ms Bs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer whether authorisation has been 
given to the representative is reasonable and has her privacy and data protection in 
mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns and he explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Ms Bs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought carefully about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Ms B 
complained through her representative to SNC in February 2021 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Ms B hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 20 August 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
31 August 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now nearly a year later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the 
firm nonetheless disputes that it has not had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is 
clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Ms Bs complaint, which is what I have gone on to do in the next part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Ms B wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Ms B this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Ms B had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Ms Bs finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Bs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Ms Bs facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Ms B would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 each month by carrying 
out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Bs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for two months preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Bs income and expenditure was, and after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms B could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results would on their own  
have led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks 
into Ms Bs situation before the facility was approved. 
However, having reviewed the transaction data from her bank statements, I agree with the 
adjudicator that there were signs of financial difficulties before the facility was granted and 
knowing this SNC shouldnt have granted it. 
Firstly, the income that Ms B declared to SNC as part of her application of £1,200 per month 
seems inconsistent with the payments I can see from benefits and what appears to be her 
salary. She received around £2,000 in April 2017 and £1,600 in May 2017. 
Ive also thought about the living costs that I can see, but to be clear, these are only 
payments that Ive been able to establish for items such as rent, gas, electric and credit 
commitments comes to around £775. But this doesnt include items such as food and petrol. 
So SNC may have reasonably believed based solely on the income and expenditure Ive 
detailed above that Ms B may have been able to afford her repayments. However, there 
were other indicators within the bank transaction data that has led me to conclude that Ms B 
couldnt afford the facility.  
In the months leading up to the facility being approved, Ms B looks to have been spending 
significant amounts of money each month on betting transactions. For the only full month 
SNC had bank transaction data for  May 2017, Ms B spent almost her entire monthly 
income  around £1,500 on gambling transactions. On top of this we know, from the 
transaction data, that Ms B had at least around £700 worth of living costs. 
Clearly, based on the information SNC had available to it, Ms B wasnt in a position to afford 
the repayments towards this facility because she didnt have sufficient funds in which to 
cover her existing commitments. 
Overall, given what Ive seen in the transaction data Im upholding Ms Bs complaint and I 
dont think SNC shouldve approved the facility.  Putting things right
SNC shouldnt have approved the facility for Ms B and Ive outlined below what it needs to 
do in order to put things right for her.
 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the start.
B) Treat all payments Ms B has made towards her account since it opened as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms B wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
D) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Bs credit file 
from when the account was opened.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman