DRN-4460655
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy a claim made under his home insurance policy has been declined by HDI
Global Specialty SE (HDI).
What happened
Mr E has a home insurance policy with HDI. A neighbouring wall collapsed onto Mr Es wall,
and he made a claim to HDI.
HDI said the damage was caused gradually, and it wasnt sudden or unforeseen. And as
gradual damage is excluded under Mr Es policy, HDI declined the claim.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said she accepted
the neighbours wall was damaged gradually, but Mr Es wall was damaged suddenly by the
impact when it finally collapsed. So, she didnt agree the damage to Mr Es wall was gradual
or that it would be fair for HDI to rely on this exclusion.
The investigator also noted HDI had said the damage wasnt covered under accidental
damage on Mr Es policy as they said it wasnt sudden or unforeseen. But she said Mr E had
contacted HDI, the neighbours and the council to try to prevent damage happening, and he
couldnt have done anything further. So, she said it wasnt fair for HDI to decline the claim
under the accidental damage cover.
HDI responded to say they didnt agree as the damage was foreseeable due to the gradual
collapse of the neighbouring wall. HDI were also concerned that this would leave them open
to ongoing further foreseeable damage whilst the neighbouring wall remains in a precarious
state.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
HDI partly declined Mr Es claim on the basis they say the damage was caused 
gradually, and Mr Es policy has the following exclusion:
Wear and tear
Any loss or damage caused by wear or anything which happens gradually 
including deterioration, settlement or shrinkage.
I accept the neighbouring wall was damaged gradually and over time, but the 
damage caused to Mr Es wall was when the neighbouring wall eventually collapsed. 
So, whilst the neighbouring wall suffered gradual damage, I dont agree that Mr Es 
did. Therefore, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
HDI to decline the claim on this basis.
However, for a claim to be covered under the policy an insured event needs to have
occurred. And the only potential insured event which might apply would be accidental
damage. This is defined in the policy as:
Unexpected physical damage caused suddenly by an identifiable external 
means and is not deliberate.
HDI also says that the damage to Mr Es wall wouldnt be covered under the 
accidental damage cover as it wasnt unexpected. Our investigator accepted that, but 
she said that as Mr E did everything he could, then HDI should still cover the claim 
under accidental damage.
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr E, Im not minded to agree 
with our investigator.
From the information provided, it is noted that Mr E contacted the insurer around a 
year before the collapse as he was concerned about the neighbouring wall. He 
wanted the insurer to repair it to prevent the inevitable collapse and consequent 
damage to his wall. But the neighbouring wall wasnt the responsibility of Mr Es 
insurer, and there was no damage identified to his property at the time, so nothing 
further was done at that point.
I recognise Mr E continually checked the condition of the wall and contacted the 
neighbour and the council, who both declined to do anything further. And I do 
appreciate the position Mr E has been put into, his wall has been damaged by the 
collapse of a neighbouring wall.
However, the neighbouring wall has been damaged gradually, and it was foreseen 
and expected that it would eventually collapse, and this would cause damage to Mr 
Es wall. So, the definition of accidental damage under Mr Es policy hasnt been met, 
so no insured event has occurred.Whilst Mr E contacted the neighbour and council who declined to do anything, this 
doesnt mean that it then automatically falls to HDI to deal with the claim outside the 
policy cover. I have to be fair to both parties, and there is no insured event which has 
occurred under Mr Es policy, and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
HDI to deal with the repairs outside the policy cover in these particular 
circumstances.
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
whilst I dont think its fair or reasonable for HDI to decline the claim based on the 
gradual damage exclusion, I dont think HDI is acting unfairly by declining the claim 
on the basis no insured event has occurred.
Mr E has more recently said to this service:
Since we raised this issue, we have had more damage to our patio/garden 
area due to our neighbours (sic) inability to fix the original issue.
Whilst I dont think HDI has acted unfairly by declining Mr Es claim, I note from all 
the information provided that Mr E does appear to have a separate Family Legal 
Protection policy (underwritten by a different insurer), and this does mention pursuing 
damage caused to his property. Whilst I cant comment on whether Mr E would have 
a valid claim with that insurer as this claim and complaint relates solely to HDI, it may 
be of benefit for Mr E to contact his Family Legal Protection provider to see if he has 
any other cover in the first instance.
So, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
HDI didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr E responded but he didnt agree. He said that he first contacted the insurer when the 
neighbours wall started to collapse resulting in the bottom corner of his wall being 
undermined. 
Mr E said a loss adjuster turned up and didnt complete a thorough inspection. Mr E said that 
based on this, HDI said there was no damage, so Mr E sent them photos. In the interim Mr E 
contacted the neighbour and council. When more of the wall was damaged, HDI eventually 
agreed to send another loss adjuster and the previous and new damage was shown to them. 
Mr E says he couldnt have foreseen the wall would collapse and cause damage to his wall 
and he let HDI know as soon as it did.
Mr E also said HDI has now refused to renew his insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr E, my final decision 
remains the same as my provisional decision.As I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think its fair for HDI to decline the claim 
based on the wear and tear and gradual damage exclusion. This is because it was Mr Es 
neighbours wall which was damaged gradually which led to the eventual collapse, and 
consequent damage to Mr Es wall.
However, the only other insured event which potentially could provide cover is accidental 
damage. But Im still not persuaded it has been shown that the claim meets the requirements 
for accidental damage as defined.
I accept the damage was sudden, but its being unexpected that I think defeats the claim. 
The neighbours wall deteriorated gradually over time and resulted in the eventual collapse 
and inevitable damage to Mr Es wall.
I note what Mr E says about reporting of the damage when he noticed it. But I still think that 
it was foreseen, and Mr E was aware of the likely collapse of the neighbouring wall and the 
inevitable damage this would cause. The information provided indicates the second loss 
adjuster appointed by HDI was told by Mr E that he had contacted the insurer around a year 
before when damage was noticed to the neighbouring wall. The insurer had asked if there 
was damage to Mr Es property at that time but there wasnt at that stage. The insurer 
advised to call back if any damage later became apparent.
When the wall then eventually collapsed, Mr E then called the insurer back and the first loss 
adjuster was appointed. So, whilst Mr E has questioned why hed ask his insurer to repair 
the neighbours wall, it appears he did this to try and prevent the likely collapse and 
inevitable damage to his wall, but the neighbouring wall wasnt the responsibility of Mr Es 
insurer. So, Im persuaded, on balance, Mr E was already aware damage was likely to be 
caused, so it wasnt unexpected which is a requirement for an accidental damage claim.
Whilst I recognise Mr E holds his neighbour negligently responsible and contacted the 
neighbour and the council who refused to do anything, it doesnt mean this then 
automatically falls to HDI. As mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr E does have Family 
Legal Protection (underwritten by a different insurer), so he may wish to approach them to 
see if they are able to provide any assistance.
For the reasons outlined, Im not going to direct HDI to do anything further.
Mr E has also mentioned that HDI has now refused to renew his insurance policy. However, 
as advised by our investigator, as this is a new issue, Mr E would need to raise this as a new 
separate complaint with HDI in the first instance.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman