DRN-4209435
The complaint
Mr H complains that Xbridge Limited didnt make clear to him that his landlord property 
insurance wasnt going to automatically renew. And that they penalised him for asking if a 
claim for his roof might be covered.
What happened
Mr H had insurance through Xbridge. Shortly before renewal in August 2022 he asked 
whether some roof repairs would be covered. Because there was a potential claim, Xbridge 
said the renewal terms might need to change, so they cancelled the automatic renewal.
The policy didnt renew. When Mr H discovered that to be the case, he said hed been 
treated unfairly and had been left without insurance cover.
An investigator here looked into the matter, and said Xbridge had been reasonable in their 
communication with Mr H and therefore he ought to have been aware that his policy wasnt 
going to be automatically renewed.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide. Earlier this 
month I explained the following to Mr H:
Your case appears to me to be quite straightforward. Xbridge didn't renew your insurance 
policy, they're entitled to make that decision. Even if Xbridge made that decision, because 
you
made an enquiry about a potential claim, then that's also something they're entitled to do. 
And if they said your premiums may increase - regardless of whether or not a claim went 
ahead - then, again, that's also acceptable.
So, not only have they made a decision they're entitled to - I don't see how you have lost out.
Ultimately, insurers don't have to offer renewal and they may offer renewal on different terms 
than the previous year. Just as consumers don't have to accept renewal terms, if they're no 
longer happy with them, or with any changes. They can shop around instead.
Mr H didnt agree, he said we believed him to have done something wrong and that he had 
incurred a loss because hed had to pay for the roof repairs himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I spoke to Mr H about his case and he said he maintained that he had been treated unfairly. 
He also said he wanted a swift resolution because he remained uninsured.
Ive thought about everything very carefully but I still feel Xbridge werent unfair in their 
advice to him. Mr H couldve pursued the claim if hed wanted to, and if it had been agreed 
as covered he wouldnt have incurred a loss. Indeed, he may still be able to pursue the claim 
now if he wishes to do so  although theres no guarantee itll be accepted.
If the claim had ended up being fairly rejected then Mr H would still have had to cover the 
repair costs himself.
But, ultimately, his policy was up for renewal and the roof damage meant the perceived risk 
had changed, so Xbridge were reasonable in saying that could change any offer of renewal. 
I dont believe that was a way of trying to put him off claiming or unfair because its how the 
process works throughout the industry  and until a contract is formed it will always be able 
to be changed.
Id like to be clear that I dont think Mr H has done anything wrong. I understand why he was 
aggrieved by the sequence of events explained, but I dont think Xbridge did anything wrong 
either so Im not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman