DRN-3262740
The complaint
Mr B complains Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-Op Insurance, didnt properly 
investigate a claim made against him on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
On 26 December 2019 Mr B was involved in an incident. He said he saw a cyclist coming 
from the pavement on his right, brake and fall over the handlebars. Mr B says there was no 
collision, but he got out to check the cyclist was alright. He said another person almost 
immediately came along, who knew the cyclist, and took charge of the situation. Mr B says 
they didnt take any of his details. 
Later, Mr B found out a claim had been made against his policy as a result of an alleged 
collision related to the above events. He said he thought this claim was fraudulent.
Soteria said they could see the other partys representatives held Mr B liable for what 
happened. They said they had an obligation to register and investigate the allegations and 
tried to contact Mr B to do so. Contact was made with Mr B on 17 February 2020, and 
shortly after an inspection was made of his car  showing no evidence of a collision or recent 
repairs. But, Soteria said the decision had been made to accept liability which had been 
explained to Mr B  this was after referring the matter to a solicitor. They said he was 
performing a high-risk manoeuvre and needed to be more vigilant for potential hazards, such 
as the other party. Soteria said the other party had to take evasive actions due to Mr Bs 
driving, so the claim will be settled against his policy. Soteria added this was done on a 
without prejudice basis, so Mr B could independently dispute this if he wanted to.
Although not upholding Mr Bs main complaint, Soteria said they could see hed asked for a 
call back on 29 December 2020 to dispute the decision to hold him liable  but it never 
came. So, they sent him a £50 cheque as an apology.
In a follow up reply, Soteria said they cant prove any wrongdoing by the other party due to 
no independent witness statements or CCTV. They said as the turning party from a minor 
road to a main road, the higher burden was on Mr B. And they said You advised on your 
initial call to our Claims Department that whilst you didnt hit the Third Party he needed to 
apply his breaks, resulting in him falling off his cycle, or else youd have hit him. This 
therefore poses the following questions, had you seen the cyclist and been able to stop or 
had you not seen the cyclist at all?
Mr B contacted us and asked us to look into things. Overall, our Investigator felt Soteria had 
acted fairly when deciding liability, so didnt need to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree, in summary he said:
Having a settlement clause by an insurer makes sense, but he felt abusing this 
clause to short-circuit due process was sharp practice by Soteria.
The solicitors Soteria had asked to assess the claim were actively looking for 
reasons not to defend him.
He didnt see any injuries to the other party, so said it was negligent to accept a 
personal injury claim without verifying that.
He felt the other partys representatives hadnt pursued the claim, but Soteria had, 
and didnt think they should have because it was clearly a fraudulent claim.
As a result of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide. When reviewing matters, I 
had a number of questions I wanted Soteria to answer. Ive incorporated those questions, 
and their answers, below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to initially explain I cant decide who is liable for what happened, or whether the claim 
made by the other party is a fraudulent one. Those can only be addressed by a court. 
Instead, what I can consider is whether Soteria have acted fairly in reaching their decision on 
liability.
One of Mr Bs main concerns was regarding the decision to hold him liable when there was 
no medical evidence provided about this. I too asked this question, because it wasnt clear 
from the information wed been provided if there had ever been a medical report to show the 
injuries the other party sustained before Soteria agreed to hold Mr B liable.
In response, Soteria said the other party did suffer injuries, and they did have a medical 
report to prove this. They said it showed the other party had injuries to their hand and knee  
which were backed up by a medical report.
Ive now been provided with a copy of this medical report. It was completed on 
12 March 2020. The date of the accident reported by the other party to the Doctor in the 
medical report is the same  as is the way the other party fell over  saying he turned to 
avoid the car and fell over. So, those details are the same.
Some other details are different though. Its reported the car was turning left, when Mr B has 
said his car was turning right. And its in the medical report an ambulance attended the 
scene, when Mr B has said, and provided some evidence, no ambulance did.
Overall, the Doctor has said the other partys injuries are entirely consistent with the 
account of the accident. And, as I said, the accident circumstances both the other party and 
Mr B have reported have matched. 
Soteria have said theres no reason to question the veracity of the medical report and its 
more likely than not it would have been accepted by a court assessing damages as evidence 
as to the other partys injuries. I dont think this is an unreasonable position to take  even in 
spite of the discrepancies  as the core issue is about the injuries sustained which, as Ive 
said above, the details on the medical report match Mr Bs account of the accident.
I also note Soteria did refer this on to a solicitor to consider what the likely outcome would 
be. They said they thought it likely the court would hold Mr B fully liable for the incident given 
the evidence available. Ive noted Mr Bs comments that those solicitors have actively been 
looking for reasons not to defend him, but Ive not seen any evidence of that.In respect of pursuing the claim on 24 April 2020 the other partys solicitors wrote to 
Soterias solicitors with the medical report. In this, they said if no offer is received within 21 
days then proceedings would be issued. Soteria have said the other partys solicitors had 
shown a willingness to go to court  but when they factored in all the evidence, they felt they 
had no choice but to accept liability. The policy terms Mr B signed up to allow them to do 
this, so I cant say theyve done anything wrong by choosing to do so.
Overall, I do think Soteria have treated Mr B fairly when deciding whether to accept liability 
on his behalf or not. So, I wont be upholding that element of his complaint.
But I do think their communication has been poor on this matter. Mr B brought his complaint 
to our service in July 2021 saying he thought it negligent for Soteria to have accepted liability 
on his behalf without anything to back that up.
Mr B made a point of Soteria having no medical evidence to back up their decision to hold 
him liable  something I thought was a fair question as Id not seen any reference to a 
medical report in the hundreds of pages of evidence our service was provided with. When 
questioned, Soteria said they did have a medical report, and I can now see this was 
provided to them on 24 April 2020. I asked Soteria why no mention of this was made before. 
In response, Soteria have said in the claims notification contact on 26 February 2020 it 
showed the other partys intention to make a personal injury claim  and Soteria pointed me 
to another note they said showed the other party was making a personal injury claim.
I dont think the intention to make a personal injury claim is the same as that having 
happened, and once completed it backing up the other partys version of events sufficiently 
to hold Mr B liable. And the note Soteria have pointed our service to is dated January 2021 
and simply says Cant close the claim due to an injury claim which he was aware of. Its not 
clear to me what was discussed, but thats the extent of the note recorded about anything to 
do with a personal injury claim and makes no reference to a medical report.
So, in short, I cant see Mr B was ever made aware by Soteria a medical report had been 
completed, and it supported the other partys version of events sufficiently strongly to hold 
him fully liable. Due to that, I think Mr B has been under the impression for around two years 
now Soteria were unfairly, and without appropriate evidence, holding him liable for an 
accident he didnt think they should have. 
With that in mind, I think some compensation would be fair. Ultimately, Mr B is still being 
held liable for the accident which, as I said before, I cant change. And, Mr B is being held 
responsible for the same reason that he was before  that hed performed a high-risk 
manoeuvre. Both of which I think to some degree mitigate the total amount of compensation 
I think is fair. Having considered everything carefully, I think £200 is a fair reflection of the 
frustration caused to Mr B as a result of Soterias actions. This is in addition to the £50 
Soteria offered him  so £250 in total.
Ive noted Mr B had concerns about Soteria pursuing the claim when it was clearly 
fraudulent, but as I hope he can now see  they were pursuing the claim because there was 
enough evidence to suggest the matter did need to be resolved. And, if the claim remained 
open for a long time, itd likely have affected his renewal premiums when they came up. So, I 
dont uphold this element currently either.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Bs responseMr B didnt agree with the outcome I reached  Ive summarised his points as to what I 
consider are the crux of the matter.
He explained the circumstances of the incident again and says the solicitors conjured up the 
information about him driving in a highly pedestrianised area  and says this provides 
evidence they were actively looking for ways not to defend him. 
Mr B said he understood this comes down to his word against that of the other party and 
called their credibility into question. Mr B said they didnt ask for his details at the scene  
and the personal injury claim was made 41 days after the incident, perhaps because theyre 
aware CCTV is destroyed after 31 days. Mr B said on two occasions then the other party 
prevented him from getting any third-party evidence  but this behaviour hasnt been taken 
into account. 
He also pointed out discrepancies in the information provided by the other party in relation to 
various factors  including the other party saying in the original claim form medical treatment 
was sought the day after the incident. But, in the medical report we provided to Mr B, that 
medical treatment was provided immediately by a paramedic on scene. Mr B pointed out I 
said hed provided evidence no ambulance was called to the scene, but unacceptable 
credence was given the other partys so-called evidence he provided to the medical 
examiner. 
As for the medical report, Mr B said examining someone so long after the incident means it 
was impossible for the Doctor to know what caused the lacerations. He said just because the 
Doctor has said theyre consistent with the account of the incident doesnt mean they were 
actually caused by it. 
Mr B also felt there was enough evidence to suggest the other partys solicitors knew the 
claim was flawed but knowing how insurers work knew Soteria would be keen to close the 
claim to avoid year end provision. 
Overall, Mr B didnt feel Soteria have acted fairly or reasonably and disagreed with the 
outcome Id reached.
Soterias response
Soteria also didnt agree with the outcome Id reached  Ive summarised their points, again 
as to what I consider are the crux of the matter.
They said Mr Bs complaint is that they didnt properly investigate a claim against him  but 
its clear from the evidence they did. Their decision to pay the claim was based on Mr Bs 
comments and his own statement. They didnt agree theyd short circuited the process or 
abused the policy term that allows them to take over the defence and settlement of claims. 
They said theyd always look to defend their policyholder as its also in their best interests to 
do this  but the legal opinion was to pay the claim on a without prejudice basis. 
Soteria said Mr B never mentioned to them his concern was about the lack of medical 
evidence despite their many conversations with him. They felt it likely even if they had told 
Mr B about the medical evidence they doubted itd have changed his position. Soteria 
contacted the solicitors and asked if they had any discussions with Mr B about the medical 
report. They said there was nothing specific, but in a reply from the solicitors on 
5 January 2021 reference to medical evidence was made. 
Overall, they think Mr B was aware they had evidence to substantiate the other partys claim, 
and they said Mr B was disputing every detail. They said the crux of the issue is that they settled the claim against him, which Ive said they did fairly, so they didnt think any 
compensation was due.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about both parties reasons for disagreeing with the outcome Ive 
reached. But, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, Im satisfied its still appropriate to partially 
uphold this complaint and require Soteria to pay Mr B a total of £250 compensation.
I think its important to reiterate I cant decide who is liable for what happened, or whether 
the claim made by the other party is a fraudulent one. Those can only be addressed by a 
court. I say this because I think a number of Mr Bs arguments, although addressed at 
Soteria and the solicitor firm who reviewed the claim, are about these two points.
Mr Bs points
Ive thought carefully about the solicitors saying he was driving in a highly pedestrianised 
area  showing they didnt want to defend him. But I still dont agree it does mean what Mr B 
has said. Theres no evidence Ive seen that persuades me the solicitors who Soteria asked 
to look at things had no interest in defending Mr B from this claim. They have disputed the 
claim on a number of occasions with the other party  and, ultimately, decided to settle when 
they were satisfied it was likely a judge would find in the other partys favour.
Mr B has said the other party didnt ask for his details at the scene  and didnt raise their 
claim until after CCTV had been destroyed which hasnt been taken into account. I do 
understand what hes saying, but I dont think either of these points mean Mr B wasnt able 
to get evidence. If hed chosen to, he could have taken photos at the scene which would 
have given him some evidence of whatd happened. And I note his comments about CCTV 
being destroyed after 31 days, but he also could have enquired about this if he wanted to. 
So, although I appreciate Mr B may not have been on notice about a claim coming in, that 
doesnt mean he was prevented from getting evidence if hed wished to.
I do agree with Mr Bs points there are some discrepancies in the original report, and the 
medical report produced later on. But, as Ive noted above, I think Soterias position is 
reasonable in relation to the medical report. They said they thought it likely a court would 
accept this because, the core issue, is about the injuries sustained. The circumstances of 
which match what both parties have said happened.. Ive seen Mr B has called into question 
whether the Doctor could really know if the lacerations were really caused by the incident 
after such a long period of time  but here Im only assessing Soterias actions. Soteria have 
a report which attributes injuries sustained by the other party to the incident Mr B was 
involved in. So, I think theyve acted reasonably in accepting that.
Mr B has said the other partys solicitor knew the claim was flawed, and it was Soteria who 
pursued it when they shouldnt have. But, ultimately, Im satisfied Mr B has been treated 
fairly by Soteria choosing to settle the claim in the way they have. Theyve got legal advice 
and a medical report which supports their decision. Soteria could have chosen to take the 
matter to court  but their assessment was had they done so theyd have lost. Im satisfied 
theyve got enough evidence on file to fairly make that determination.
Soterias pointsI do agree Soteria have acted fairly in the way theyve settled the claim, but I dont think their 
communication has been satisfactory. 
Ive noted their point that Mr B may still have disputed the outcome of the claim, as Soteria 
said he disputed everything else. Given Mr Bs response to the report being provided, I think 
its fair to say thats likely true. But, regardless of that, given the impact of holding someone 
liable  for an incident theyre strongly disputing theyre responsible for  Id expect effective 
communication. 
Here, Mr B has come to our service not knowing why or on what basis Soteria have settled 
his claim. I think thats clear enough in the communication between Soteria and him where, 
as they say, hes continued to dispute the outcome. But I dont think they provided enough 
evidence to Mr B during the course of the complaint to demonstrate this to him. Mr B also 
made a Subject Access Request and wasnt provided with a copy of the medical report  
Soteria have said they wouldnt usually provide this. But it shouldnt take our service getting 
involved for one of Soterias policyholders to get a complete understanding of why a claim 
against them is being upheld. Its not for me to decide what evidence Soteria should or 
shouldnt have shared, but I can consider the impact of not sharing information I think they 
should have. Whether that was a copy, redacted or otherwise, of the report or a brief clear 
summary of why they felt that supported their case.
Soteria have argued it was clear to Mr B they wouldnt have settled his claim without a 
medical report. But when I reviewed the hundreds of pages of evidence I had to ask if there 
even was a medical report means. Which means I cant agree with this comment  it wasnt 
clear to me if there was one, and when asking Soteria they pointed to two pieces of 
information which didnt say there was (as mentioned above in my provisional decision).
Summary
Overall Im satisfied that, despite the discrepancies and other concerns Mr B has raised, 
Soteria have acted fairly and reasonably in holding him liable for this incident. 
And, as I dont think Soteria have fairly communicated with Mr B during the course of this 
claim, I remain of the opinion £250 compensation in total is fair.
  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited, trading as Co-Op 
Insurance, to pay Mr B £250 compensation (Soteria can deduct any compensation already 
paid to Mr B from this figure).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman