DRN-2704004
The complaint
Mr D and Ms T complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated them 
fairly when they experienced financial difficulty with their mortgage.
What happened
Mr D and Ms T have a mortgage with Halifax. 
Unfortunately, due to a serious car accident, Mr D had to give up work. They then relied on 
Ms Ss income from her self-employment. From around March 2019, the mortgage began to 
fall into arrears. They had a fixed rate of 2.24%, which expired in May 2019. Since then they 
have been on the standard variable rate (SVR). This meant their monthly payments 
increased from around £2,000 to just under £2,500.
Mr D and Ms S asked Halifax for a new interest rate to reduce their payments. They said the 
higher payments on the SVR werent affordable. During 2019, Mr D and Ms S made some 
payments to their mortgage, missed others and overpaid in some months, though overall 
their arrears increased. 
Mr D and Ms S say they asked Halifax to help them in various ways. They asked for a new 
fixed rate to lower their payments. They asked for a payment holiday or to switch the 
mortgage over to interest only. But they say it wouldnt consider anything until the arrears 
were paid off. 
Mr D and Ms S complained that Halifax wasnt helping them, wasnt looking at their 
individual circumstances or doing anything to assist them. They said it was now looking at 
legal action to repossess their property. This was incredibly stressful for them and their 
children. 
Halifax didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said Mr D and Ms S werent eligible for a new 
interest rate while they were in arrears. Once they had cleared the arrears, it could discuss a 
new rate with them. 
Ms S explained that her self-employment income was variable. But Mr D received a small 
insurance settlement following his accident. And he became able to work again, though at a 
lower salary than before and with part of his income commission based. 
Halifax agreed a payment arrangement with Mr D and Ms S of £3,000 per month. But Ms S 
said it would take almost two years to clear the arrears at that rate  and it wasnt fair to 
expect them to pay higher interest all that time.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr D and Ms S asked for it 
to be considered by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive looked at the history of the account, and I can see that Mr D and Ms S were 
previously in arrears in 2017 and 2018. Halifax capitalised around £10,000 of arrears 
in March 2018. 
After that, Mr D and Ms S kept up with the mortgage until March 2019, when they fell 
back into arrears. They made no payments in March or April, and a partial payment 
in May.
In May 2019, Ms S spoke to Halifax. At that point, she was expecting a substantial 
insurance payment, as well as income from her business, shortly, and expected to be 
able to clear the arrears in the next month or so. Unfortunately this didnt prove 
possible, and the arrears continued to mount over the next few months. They had 
reached around £10,000 when this complaint was first made to us.
Over this time, Ms S kept in regular contact with Halifax to explain their situation. 
Halifax agreed payment arrangements on a month by month basis, but Mr D and Ms 
S werent always able to keep to them. 
After the complaint came to us, Mr D and Ms S continued to make reduced 
payments. But then they cleared the arrears in a lump sum in March 2020. Since 
then they have, by and large, kept up with the mortgage payments. They took a 
coronavirus payment deferral, and then switched to a lower interest rate in August 
2020.
This complaint is therefore about what happened during the period of the arrears. Mr 
D and Ms S say that Halifax should have offered them a new interest rate, and 
should have considered other ways in which it could help them.
Halifax said Mr D and Ms S werent eligible for a new interest rate while they were in 
arrears. Ive thought about whether that was a fair outcome in this case.
During 2019, when their previous rate ended, Mr D and Ms S were experiencing 
financial difficulty. Mr D couldnt work following the accident. And Ms S, whos self-
employed, has variable income. So they werent able to make regular payments of 
the full contractual amount.
Mr D and Ms S did, however, act responsibly in their situation  they kept in close 
touch with Halifax over this time, and they paid what they could when they could.
Nevertheless, it wasnt clear at the time when or how theyd be able to get the 
mortgage back on track. When, for example, Mr D might be able to return to work  
and which work  or whether Ms S would be able to increase and stabilise her 
income as she was planning to do.
I do understand the argument that, when they were struggling to meet their 
payments, reversion to the SVR just made that struggle harder and made it even 
more likely theyd be in arrears. And theres force in that argument, especially where 
the difference between a new interest rate and the SVR is the difference between the 
mortgage being affordable and unaffordable.
In this case, though, that wasnt the difference. Mr D and Ms S were in arrears before 
the old interest rate ended. And Ive looked at the transaction history once they 
reverted to SVR and  while they were paying what they could when they could  a 
new rate wouldnt have meant they were able to keep up with the payments. A new 
rate wouldnt have made their mortgage, which was unaffordable at that time, 
affordable.And there are downsides to taking a new interest rate  principally an early 
repayment charge (ERC). 
If Mr D and Ms Ss financial situation didnt improve and the arrears continued to 
grow, there might have come a point at which theyd either have to sell the property 
or face repossession. Either of those would result in an ERC being added to the 
mortgage balance to be repaid. While, thankfully, that didnt end up happening that 
couldnt have been known in 2019 when they asked for a new rate.
On balance, therefore, I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to refuse a new interest 
rate. It wouldnt have made the mortgage affordable, and it risked making Mr D and 
Ms Ss situation worse. But Im pleased they were able to take a new rate in 2020 
once things were back on track.
Mr D and Ms S also complain that Halifax didnt help them in other ways during their 
financial difficulty  and here I do think Halifax could have done more.
Ive looked carefully at everything that happened, and what Halifax has said. It said it 
never offers a temporary change to interest only as a concession  thats its policy. It 
wouldnt consider a term extension, because it said Mr D and Ms S werent speaking 
to the right team. And it said it wouldnt consider a payment arrangement because its 
policy is only to offer a payment arrangement where a full monthly payment was 
made within the last 35 days.
I dont think this resulted in Mr D and Ms S being treated fairly. 
The rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to treat borrowers facing financial 
difficulty fairly, to try and ensure the mortgage can be paid and to ensure 
repossession is a last resort. The rules say that in doing so a firm must consider 
whether it is appropriate in the individual circumstances of its customer to do any of 
the following:
Extend the mortgage term;
Change the payment type;
Defer payment of interest or capital;
Capitalise arrears; or
Make use of government forbearance schemes.
There are no government forbearance schemes in England at present. And 
capitalising arrears isnt appropriate unless the borrowers can afford the higher 
monthly payments that would result  so this is a measure better suited to help 
borrowers clear arrears after their finances improve, rather than to help them during 
financial difficulty.
A term extension might not have been appropriate in this case, since the term 
already extended close to Mr D and Ms Ss retirement age. But a term extension 
would reduce the monthly payments. But Halifax wouldnt explore this; it told Mr D 
and Ms S on the phone that they needed to speak to a different team, and in writing 
that it couldnt be done as they would pay more interest overall. Thats true  but is 
only one factor to weigh in the balance. Halifax didnt carry out that balancing 
exercise to consider whether it would have been appropriate in Mr D and Ms Ss 
particular circumstances.
Halifax says it doesnt offer temporary interest only concessions as a matter of policy. 
So it didnt consider it in this case. But the rules require a lender to consider whether doing so is appropriate in the circumstances of each individual customer  its policy 
decision to never offer it meant it didnt consider that in this case.
The rules also say that deferring interest or capital  a payment arrangement should 
also be considered. Mr D and Ms S kept Halifax informed about their situation, and it 
agreed a series of ad hoc monthly payment arrangements. But it told them it couldnt 
consider a longer term payment arrangement because its policy meant that it could 
only do so where the full monthly payment had been made within the last 35 days.
A temporary interest only concession and a payment arrangement amount to much 
the same thing. In either case, Halifax agrees to collect less than the full monthly 
payment for a few months to give a customer breathing space, resolve the underlying 
issues causing the arrears, and get things back on track.
In this case, I think that is something Halifax could and should have considered. It 
was clearly very stressful for Mr D and Ms S to have to speak to Halifax frequently 
while also dealing with everything else that was happening. They were trying to get 
their finances back on track  through Mr Ds anticipated insurance payment, as well 
as plans for Mr D to get back to work and Ms S to expand her business. They were 
open and honest with Halifax from the start. If Halifax had been willing to explore a 
temporary payment arrangement  whether of paying only the interest, or of some 
other sum  I think that would have helped Mr D and Ms S and taken some of the 
pressure off them. 
But Halifax wasnt prepared to consider that  not because it didnt think it was 
appropriate in their individual circumstances, but because it had made a policy 
decision to restrict what it offered, and Mr D and Ms S didnt fall within that narrow 
policy. I dont think they were treated fairly in their individual circumstances as a 
result.
In the end, Mr D and Ms S were able to get the mortgage back on track. They 
cleared the arrears and took a new interest rate in late 2020. So theres no need for 
me to require Halifax to offer them a payment arrangement or other concession now.
But I do think its failure to think more carefully about what was appropriate in their 
individual circumstances meant that the experience of being in arrears was more 
difficult and stressful for Mr D and Ms S  at an already difficult time in their lives  
than it needed to be. I think it caused unnecessary upset and required much more 
contact with Halifax than would otherwise have been the case. I think Halifax should 
pay them £400 as fair compensation for the extra trouble and upset caused.
Both Mr D and Ms S, and Halifax, accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the responses to it, I see no reason to change what I said in 
my provisional decision. I remain of the view that £400 is fair compensation for Halifaxs 
failure to consider what it could have done to assist Mr D and Ms S in their individual 
circumstances and the distress that resulted.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr D and Ms S £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman