DRN-3270756
The complaint
Ms B complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) wont honour a reward 
voucher.
What happened
In January 2020 Amex sent Ms B a voucher that could be used at an associated retailer with 
a value of £275.80. The voucher had an expiration date of 6 September 2020. 
In March 2020 the UK went into national lockdown due to the pandemic. In May and June 
2020 lockdown restrictions were eased. 
Ms B has told us she tried to use the voucher in November 2020 but it had expired so wasnt 
honoured. Ms B contacted Amex but it didnt agree to approve a replacement voucher. Amex 
offered Ms B £50 to resolve her complaint but she didnt accept. 
Ms B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Amex had dealt with Ms Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms 
B asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Bs ability to use the voucher was limited due to the circumstances of the 
national lockdown. And I appreciate Ms B was concerned about the risks involved with 
visiting the retailer, even after lockdown restrictions were eased. But, I can only uphold a 
complaint where I find the busines has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly. In 
this case, Im satisfied the voucher wasnt used during the period it was valid. So I need to 
consider whether Amexs decision not to compensate Ms B was fair. 
Ive very sorry to disappoint Ms B, but I havent been persuaded Amex acted unfairly in this 
case. When Ms B contacted it, the voucher had already expired. As our investigator has 
said, the retailer was open for business during the lockdown so there was opportunity to use 
the voucher. Whilst I dont doubt Ms Bs concerns, Im satisfied there was reasonable 
opportunity for the voucher to be used. 
As I havent found Amex acted unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman