DRN-3356835
The complaint
Miss S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined to renew her motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Miss S, I include her mother insofar as she speaks for Miss S.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
From early June 2020, Miss S took out an Admiral policy to cover her car for a year.
In December 2020, a third party damaged Miss Ss car. She replaced the car with another 
car and put it on the policy.
In April 2021, Miss S damaged a third partys vehicle. Later that month, a third party 
damaged Miss Ss car.
In early May 2021, Admiral told Miss S it wouldnt renew her policy from June 2021. Miss S 
complained to Admiral that it had treated her unfairly as two of the incidents hadnt been her 
fault. She also complained to Admiral that it hadnt responded to her complaint.
By a final response letter dated 20 September 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint that 
it had unfairly declined to renew the policy. Admirals final response apologised for not fully 
responding to the complaint before; and it said it was sending Miss S a cheque for £30.00. 
Miss S brought her complaint to us later in September 2021. She said that Admirals  
premium for the year had been around £800.00. She asked that Admiral should review its 
decision not to renew, which she said had caused other insurers to quote much higher 
premiums or not to quote at all.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that Admiral had a right to decline a renewal based on its underwriting criteria.
Miss S disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She did absolutely nothing wrong except for a single, very minor scrape. 
Yet the insurance industry hikes her annual premium from around £700.00 to around 
£4,500.00 making her uninsurable on the budgets of 99% of families.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance companies are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is bound by the FCAs dispute resolution rules (DISP). We deal with a 
consumers complaint against an insurance company or other regulated financial firm.
First, we consider whether the insurance company is responsible for an unfair act or 
omission. If we find that it is, then we go on to look at the impact of that act or omission on 
the complainant consumer  and we consider how to put that right.
Different insurers have different statistical data and different underwriting criteria. The DISP 
rules do not give us power to tell an insurance company what its criteria shouldve been. 
Im dealing with Miss Ss complaint against Admiral, not a complaint against any other 
insurance company that insured her after June 2021.
Admirals policy was for one year. But its policy terms included the following:
16. Automatic renewal
When your policy is due for renewal, we may offer to renew it for you automatically 
using the payment details you have already given, unless we or you have advised 
otherwise. We will contact you by your chosen method of communication before your 
policy ends and before taking any payment to confirm your renewal premium and 
policy terms. If you do not want to renew your policy you must call us before your 
renewal date to let us know. It is not possible to offer automatic renewal in all 
circumstances, for example we may need to discuss your renewal invite with you or 
your payment method may change. Your renewal invite will advise if your policy will 
be automatically renewed or if you need to call us. If we are unable to offer
renewal terms we will write to you at your last known address to let you know.
Ive added the underlining. I consider that the underlined wording shows that Admiral had a 
right not to offer renewal. So its decision not to offer renewal was in line with the policy 
terms.
Im satisfied that Admirals decision was based on its underwriting criteria, which wouldve 
applied to any of its policyholders in a similar position to Miss S. 
As its decision was in line with the policy terms and was based on criteria which wouldve 
applied to other policyholders, I dont find that Admiral treated Miss S unfairly.
The final response included the following:
In certain circumstances we can refuse to insure you if your details fall outside of our 
underwriting criteria. Unfortunately, this happened in your case. Due to the amount of 
fault and non-fault incidents [Miss S] has registered in her name, we can no longer 
agree to take her on as an insurance risk. This is because she is now statistically 
more likely to make further claims. 
While I appreciate you may be more vigilant when behind the wheel after an 
accident, we cannot accept this as a reason to override our decision.
I accept Miss Ss statement that she hadnt said that she would be more vigilant. But I dont 
consider that Admirals final response was quoting her as using those words or suggesting 
that she had been at fault in the first and the third incidents. And Im satisfied that the final 
response made clear that the reason for the decision not to renew was that the number of 
incidents (fault and non-fault) was outside the underwriting criteria.Other insurers may have asked Miss S whether Admiral had refused to renew, and she 
wouldve had a legal duty to take care to give a correct answer. That answer may have 
added to the effect of the three incidents, in limiting Miss Ss choice and increasing her cost 
of insurance. 
But I havent found that Admiral treated Miss S unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Admiral to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman