DRN-3618269
The complaint
Mr J complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Acumen.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In around October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr J was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Acumen 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr J was 44 years old, married and with no dependent children. Mr and Mr J owned 
a home with no outstanding mortgage.
Mr J had left British Steel by the time the advice was given. He earned around 
£25,000 per year in a new role. Mrs J earned £21,000. 
After expenses he and Mrs J had a notable amount of disposable income left over 
each month. They also had savings of £12,000. Both Mr and Mrs J respectively had 
elderly relatives properties signed over to them although the full details of these 
arrangements werent made apparent in the documentation Ive seen. However the 
implication was that they had significant assets of considerable value yet to be 
released to them.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Js BSPS was approximately 
£223,065. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr J had two other pensions, but these were of modest values, and they dont affect 
or relate to Mr Js complaint about the BSPS.
Acumen set out its advice in a suitability report which is undated but believed to be in 
January 2018. In this it advised Mr J to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a 
type of personal pension plan. Acumen said this would allow Mr J to achieve his objectives. 
Mr J accepted this advice and so transferred out in mid-2018. In 2022 Mr J complained to 
Acumen about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a 
personal pension. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Acumen said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Mr J had at the time. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Acumen should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Js best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Acumen. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. 
However, theres documentation which Ive seen showing Mr J did make a choice. Ive seen, 
for example, that in November 2017 he completed a return slip where the option to transfer 
into the forthcoming BSPS2 was selected by him. And Ive also seen confirmation, dated 30 
November 2017, showing the trustees confirming they had received Mr Js selection.
Ive noted many of the other key documents in this case are either undated or dated at 
various points in January 2018. For instance, there was no date on the suitability report or 
retirement questionnaire, but I can see the risk profile report and the transfer analysis were 
both definitely carried out in January 2018.
On the face of it, what this means is that many of the dealings Acumen had with Mr J were in 
2018 and so after the hard deadline of 22 December 2017. However, we know Mr J had 
already opted for the BSPS2 ahead of that deadline and so Acumen would, or certainly 
should, have enquired into this fact as it was of critical importance. I have also seen that 
Acumen itself acknowledges it was engaging with Mr J as far back as 13 December 2017 
when it received some pension transfer information from him.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice. But 
because we know Mr J had already opted to join the BSPS2, Acumens advice to transfer 
away effectively removed that opportunity from him. Redress is therefore due to Mr J as if 
hed transferred to the BSPS2 as hed already indicated he had wanted to join. And it was 
Acumens recommendation that altered Mr Js pathway to eventually joining the BSPS2.
Acumen has also said, in its defence of this complaint, that so few details were known about 
the BSPS2, that it couldnt recommend it to Mr J. However, this simply isnt correct. Weve 
seen a great many similar cases to this one and so have a good understanding of the 
relevant timelines. And I know that by the time the advice was given  which was probably 
through January and February 2018, substantial details of the new BSPS2 had emerged. As 
Ive also described above, Mr J had not only received his Time to Choose letter about what 
his options were, hed already made the choice. And even if these things werent true, 
Acumens position would therefore be that it advised him to transfer away to a personal 
pension when it didnt have enough information to do so. Clearly that would also be wrong.
However, to be clear, Mr J had opted into the BSPS2 and there were many facts known 
already about how it was going to operate.
Financial viability 
Acumen referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Acumen used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in my view, these all point one way  that Mr J was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan. The critical 
yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the existing scheme, was described 
as 7.3%. For an earlier retirement, at the age of 55, the critical yield was 10%. 
Ive noted that in its own suitability report Acumen acknowledges that these critical yields 
would be unlikely to be achievable. Clearly, if it thought this, back in 2017, it would be hard 
for Acumen to argue now that achieving the critical yields were achievable. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. Acumen assessed Mr J as a high medium risk 
investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. This 
was only 4.5% per year for 20 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. For a retirement at the age of 55, the discount rate 
was only 3.9%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's middle projection rate was 5% but 
this hadnt been updated for several years.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Acumens own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr J would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term. As Ive said though, Acumen seemed to accept this.
Of course, according to Acumen, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme 
alone. Rather, Acumen said Mr J also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought 
about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, 
despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
Ive used all the information from the advice sessions to draw out the main themes on which 
Acumens recommendation to transfer was based. At the outset of the suitability report 
Acumen said Mr Js stated objectives were that he wanted to retire at around the age of 55 
although this might be phased in by reducing his working hours. It also said Mr J foresaw 
that an income of just £12,000 per year would be needed in todays money to support him 
in retirement and that he and Mrs J would eventually receive a state pension in their late 
60s. Acumen also said Mr J was keen on Mrs J being able to receive a legacy if Mr J died 
first and that this should be lump sum based, rather than an income.
Upon recommending the type of pension (and funds) he should transfer into; Acumen listed 
the rationale for transferring as follows: 
Acumen said the benefits in a personal pension could be taken earlier.
It said the tax-free cash lump sum at retirement was better.
It said there were greater freedom and flexibility of the pension funds.Acumen implied the death benefits were better in a personal pension. 
I have therefore considered all these themes. 
Retiring early / accessing tax-free cash
Ive taken into account that Mr J approached Acumen for advice because of the uncertainties 
he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF as he had already opted to 
go into the BSPS2. 
However, overall I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring away, rather than starting 
by assessing whether BSPS2 could meet Mr Js retirement needs and objectives. I think the 
adviser just promoted the more flexible arrangements which Mr J would find with a personal 
pension plan. 
Mr J was only 44 and still in good health. And the evidence Ive seen here is that  
understandably  he had no concrete plans yet for his retirement. In fact, I think its more 
likely he had only referred to the possibility of retiring at 55, so this was clearly an aspiration 
rather than part of a definite plan. Ive noted, for instance, that Mr J also said he would be 
prepared to continue to work beyond the age of 55 if he reduced his working hours. 
I accept, like most people, Mr J might well have wanted to give up working as soon as he 
could, but I dont think there was any persuasive evidence here that this was anything more 
than initial thoughts about a possible retirement, which at 44 was still some years away. So, 
when Mr J said hed only need around £12,000 per year when he eventually did retire, I think 
this could be no more than an educated guess at that point in his life. The adviser should 
have known there were still many permutations his life could follow.
Acumen also made several references to the two houses apparently already gifted to both 
Mr and Mrs J by their older relatives. The implication here was, I think, that Mr and Mr J 
stood to release significant financial assets in due course, comprising of well over £200,000 
in total. They also had their own home which was mortgage free and some savings.
Knowing of Mr and Mrs Js apparent moderate living costs and all these other assets, I cant 
therefore see why there was any rationale for transferring to a personal pension plan based 
on a need for having more capital preservation as Acumen referred to in the suitability 
report.
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Js retirement hopes were much more 
fixed than the mere aspirations set out by Acumen - and he really did comprehensively plan 
to retire early - I think Acumen should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal 
whilst being a member of the BSPS2 for example. I explain a little more about this later, but 
early retirement under the BSPS2 would still have been a realistic option for Mr J and 
Acumen should have used the details of the new scheme, which were readily available at 
the time. Retiring early from that DB scheme (the BSPS2) would simply have meant Mr Js 
pension benefits would have been somewhat different, due to him accessing the pension 
earlier and for longer. But I think the default position of the adviser was just to transact what 
Mr J felt was a good idea.
However, the adviser was being paid for this advice. And Mr J wasnt experienced in these 
matters. So, the advisers job wasnt to just wave all this through. Their responsibility was to 
act in Mr Js best interests and to recommend what was suitable for him. In my view, the 
adviser should have recognised that leaving a DB scheme in his circumstances wasnt the 
suitable option here and that Mr J was still comparatively young in pension terms. Acumen 
should have recognised there was no retirement plans that meant Mr J was definitely going to retire so early. And predicting what a retirement for him looked like, so far in the future, 
presented uncertainties. On this basis, leaving a DB scheme at the age of 44, with all the 
guarantees and benefits BSPS2 offered, was wrong
I think its likely Acumen also promoted to Mr J that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more 
tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But Acumen should have been telling Mr J at the time that extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his mid-fifties in his case, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other viable options Mr J faced; in 
my view this included opting for the BSPS2. However, from an age perspective, I think Mr J 
was far too young to be advised to transfer away from a DB scheme to obtain a modest 
income and a cash lump sum he didnt appear to need. It was simply far too early for him to 
make such a decision.
Flexibility and control
I cant see that Mr J required flexibility in retirement in the way Acumen suggested. In any 
event, flexibility was poorly defined by Acumen. As Ive said, it said capital appreciation 
was more preferable to Mr J but given his other assets, it didnt really explain why. And the 
implication that he could start taking his pension income at any time after the age of 55 
didnt, in my view, have any reasoning behind it as to why this was really necessary or why it 
was preferable.  
I therefore think this was no more than a stock objective used to help justify the 
recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that 
showed Mr J required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. This means 
Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr J wouldnt want to continue membership of a DB 
scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. 
Acumens analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr J could expect an annual pension of around 
£14,102 per year. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated for the earlier 
retirement, at aged 55, the full pension was still £7,665 per year. Mr J had said he might 
need £12,000 but as Ive said, there was no credibility in predicting this so far ahead of 
retirement. 
In any event, Mr J was currently contributing to a pension with his new employer and he did 
also have modest pension savings elsewhere. Its easy to discount these other pensions, but 
even if he retired very early there were still over 10 years worth of contributions and growth 
yet to be added to his new work-based DC scheme. And if he worked to his NRA, there 
would be over 20 years worth of contributions and growth still to be made.
Acumen didnt go into many details about this secondary pension provision, but given his 
notable disposable monthly income in 2017, Mr J could have been advised to contribute 
more to this new DC scheme, thereby making this a much more relevant part of his overall 
pension savings. So, it certainly isnt unreasonable to say that by retirement, which was still 
a long way off for him, Mr J could have built up a meaningful DC fund. In my view, the 
adviser should have comprehensively researched these opportunities and then incorporated 
them into their overall advice. Of course, Mr J himself had also explicitly said that he might even continue working beyond 
the age of 55, so this would have made this second pension even more relevant because 
hed be contributing for longer. And if he was still working part-time past the age of 55, he 
wouldnt need to be withdrawing any pension funds just yet, particularly if Mrs J was still 
working.
I therefore dont think theres anything showing Mr Js forecasted DB pension entitlements 
wouldnt have easily met his retirement income requirements, without any need to transfer 
from his DB scheme. Hed said his income needs were minimal, he still had time to add 
more pension provision in a DC scheme, and ultimately, he had told the adviser that he and 
Mrs J expected to have significant releasable assets in properties at some point. It seems 
Mrs J also had her own pension. So, I dont think Acumen adequately explained these things 
to Mr J as its advice simply assumed him transferring to a type of personal pension scheme 
to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt appear to need.
I think Mr Js circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. The evidence pointed to him still being 
able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have been an 
actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a 
growing DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr J could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a DC scheme over a reasonable period of time  
anything up to 20 years. So, if Mr J ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be 
able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr J had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr J was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the 
new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr J himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £223,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr J 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr J died. Mr J was married and although it seems Mrs J had a 
pension of her own, its value was relatively modest. So, I think its more likely the benefits 
found in BSPS2 would have been of reassurance to Mrs J if Mr J died. 
Looking at he documents we have from the advice sessions, I think the adviser probably told 
Mr J that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal pension, potentially tax-free, 
to anyone he nominated. I think there was clearly a discussion about this, so the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an 
attractive feature to Mr J. Within the BSPS2, Mrs J would receive broadly half of Mr Js 
pension if he died in retirement. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Acumen explored to 
what extent Mr J was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
There were significant death benefits for a remaining spouse in the BSPS2 both pre and 
post retirement. Mr J was only 44 and so an obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr J had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 55 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a male retiring at 55 would likely have many years ahead in 
which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to 
someone. Mr J could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC 
scheme. 
I cant say the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But again, the 
adviser failed to present all the relevant options about insurance to Mr J, because they were 
wholly focussed on transferring him away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension 
plan. I dont think this was good advice or advice that was in Mr Js best interests. At 44 
years old, a term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable product 
for Mr J if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum legacy for Mrs J (rather than an annual 
pension), or indeed anyone else. So, to this end, Mr J already had options ensuring part of 
his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Js situation. 
Concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr J, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His former employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and Acumen said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Acumen said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr J was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer. However, it was Acumens obligation to give Mr J 
an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. By the point of the 
advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was going 
ahead. 
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen 
should have reassured Mr J that the old scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as 
he thought. The income available to Mr J through the PPF would have still probably provided 
a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his attitude to risk and the effect 
of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Acumens recommendation to Mr J to transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Acumen recommended that Mr J invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J 
and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. 
He was giving up an opportunity of a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr J was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Acumen ought to have advised him 
against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be 
worse off in retirement.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr J still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. Hed already opted into this scheme. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension when he had the opportunity of moving into the BSPS2.
On this basis, I think Acumen should have advised Mr J to remain opted into the BSPS2. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr J would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Acumen disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr J, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr J to transfer out, and I think Mr J relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Acumens advice. I say this because hed already opted for the BSPS2. Mr J was 
also an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for most of his retirement 
provision at the time. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Acumens unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely remained as opted into joining the forthcoming BSPS2, rather than transfer 
to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Acumen should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Our investigator recommended that Acumen should pay Mr J for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr J in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
the majority of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material 
benefits would have impacted heavily upon Mr J. So I agree the recommended payment of 
£300 for distress and inconvenience. Acumen should pay Mr J this amount in addition to the 
redress Ive set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman