The complaint
Mrs W has complained to Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited about the quality of a 
car supplied to her through a Hire Purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2017 Mrs W financed a new car with a cash price of nearly £36,500 through VWFS. 
The credit agreement was for £30,750. Mrs W agreed to make monthly payments of (nearly) 
£409 over four years.
Mrs W first contacted her local dealer within a couple of months after buying the car. She 
was concerned about a grating noise made when the gears were shifted downwards. This 
particularly happened at low speeds. The dealer noted and accepted the noise Mrs W was 
experiencing.
After a further couple of months the dealer got back to her and confirmed the manufacturers 
view this was a characteristic of this model. There was no additional explanation why this 
would be the case.
Mrs W was dismayed at this. Shed specifically road-tested the car before choosing this 
model. This characteristic hadnt been a feature of the one shed taken for a test drive so felt 
shed been misled.
Mrs W had only completed 2,400 miles by this time. The dealer offered to buy back the car 
less £8,000. Mrs W didnt believe this met her rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
An independent engineer appointed by Mrs W in August 2017 agreed that the noise was 
unacceptable and may get worse. Mrs W was looking for a full refund for the car.
Mrs W took her complaint to both the ombudsman service and the Motor Ombudsman. We 
confirmed we were unable to consider her complaint whilst it was being considered by 
another dispute resolution service. A provisional outcome by the Motor Ombudsman against 
the dealers largely accepted Mrs Ws complaint. This proposed a range of outcomes which 
could lead to a resolution.
A further inspection of Mrs Ws car was carried out on 16 January 2019. It was tested over 
nine miles and the independent expert didnt believe overall that the noise was 
unacceptable.
The dealer stood by their proposed resolution of taking back the car at a reduced price.
Mrs W remained unhappy with this and reinstated her complaint against VWFS at our 
service.
DRN-1924470Our investigator took a look at things. He believed the car was not of a satisfactory quality 
when it had been supplied to Mrs W. He asked VWFS to take the car back and refund the 
deposit and most of the monthly payments bar two. There were a number of other costs 
which he also asked VWFS to refund.
Mrs W pointed out that, because of the pandemic, shed not had to pay out on her expected 
three year service but clarified other costs shes had to meet. These were also shared with 
VWFS.
VWFS shared a copy of the second report carried into the condition of the car in January 
2019. Our investigator didnt believe this caused him to change his mind. He still felt Mrs Ws 
car was not of a satisfactory quality.
VWFS asked for numerous extensions to allow this view to be considered internally. 
Although its been five months since the view, weve not received any response.
Ive been asked to consider Mrs Ws complaint and I believe I have all I need to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.  
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 4 April and 1 May 2020. 
This covers in depth the reports carried out and shared by VWFS into this identified issue  
which I accept they call a characteristic. I wont generally repeat some of the background 
points already made in our view. Im aware both parties have read and understood those. Its 
also true that all reports  Mrs Ws, the dealers, the manufacturer by recognising this is a 
characteristic, the first independent report and the later report  accept there is a noise and 
where this emanates. The main issue highlighted by the second report is whether this noise 
is within reasonable expectations.
I should also add Mrs W has continued to highlight the issue that no VWFS material 
suggests to prospective purchasers that there is a significant noise emanating from the 
synchronised gearbox. Nor was the test vehicle making this noise when she road-tested it 
nearly four years ago. As shes stated:
This implied representation by the manufacturer that there should be no noise emanating 
from the transmission has been found to be false and therefore gives rise to the right to 
reject the vehicle.Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point is VWFS supplied Mrs W with a brand new car with a purchase price of 
over £36,000. 
With this in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be of a high standard compared to similarly specified but more inexpensive new 
cars. This is a point Mrs W has continued to make. Essentially she wouldnt have expected 
the problems shes had with a premium car brand.
The issue Mrs W has described with the noise coming from the car is something which she 
reported in the first two months of using it. VWFS and the manufacturer acknowledge it is a 
characteristic in certain models. So it is clear to me that it hasnt been caused by Mrs W nor 
is it usually expected wear and tear.
The key question here is whether the issue renders the car, as supplied, of unsatisfactory 
quality. VWFS have pointed to it being an acceptable characteristic rather than something 
which would give rise to a case for rejection under the CRA. I have taken this into 
consideration.
I have thought about whether or not the way Mrs Ws car is handling is considered to be a 
normal and acceptable characteristic of that model or type of car. I have had regard to the 
fact that cars will handle in a particular way that will not necessarily be considered a defect. 
Depending on what type of car you choose (and to some extent how much you spend) there 
will be reasonably varying degrees of mechanical noise, vibration and smoothness.
However, while I accept that additional handling noise might be more common in certain 
types of car (such as the model which Mrs W purchased). I also recognise there will be 
situations where the particular nature of the issues experienced by a consumer can go 
beyond the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. This is relevant to the legal test in the CRA and one that I have had regard to when considering what is fair 
and reasonable here.
My findings are based on the particular circumstances of this complaint and specifically the 
situation concerning Mrs Ws car.
Safety and other relevant considerations
I appreciate Mrs W feels that shes lost all faith in the car. But neither the initial independent 
report from 2017 or the one carried out in January 2019 identified any safety issues. 
Although the initial report did make clear that the noise may worsen and there was an 
implication this may have an impact on the way the car operates.
However safety is not the only relevant consideration when Im deciding whether a car is in a 
satisfactory condition. Despite reassurances over safety  if certain issues with the car are 
making the driver feel unsafe or uncomfortable, or having some other kind of negative 
impact on the vehicle that is also important when considering the overall question of 
satisfactory quality. I must also consider what Mrs W has told us.
What the reports state
I have looked at the various submissions. It is clear that VWFS is relying on the second 
independent report. This doesnt deny the existence of a noise just whether the volume was 
acceptable or not. The engineer conducting the investigation also drove a similar vehicle 
from the dealers to compare and contrast.  
VWFS believe any noise is a characteristic of the vehicle.
However the first report made it clear that the noise was unacceptable and may get worse.
The Motor Ombudsman decided the car was not of a satisfactory quality although I accept 
this review was completed prior to the second independent report.  
But I cant ignore the first report and Mrs Ws evidence of the problems that exists.
What Mrs W has said
I note that Mrs W complained about this issue early on and has been consistent throughout 
about how it has affected her day to day driving. She clearly doesnt think what she is 
experiencing is normal, and it is causing her concern to a degree that she feels worried.  To 
such an extent shes taken out a further agreement for another car which she has been 
using as a replacement since November 2018.
Her car  the subject of this complaint  has been off the road and mileage earlier this year 
only stood at 3,580 although the car was three years old. While her submissions are not 
scientific or expert tests  they are something I have had regard to when grappling with the 
question of whether the car as supplied was of satisfactory quality based on the standard a 
reasonable person would expect.
In Mrs Ws early submissions she was concerned about a strange and unusual grating 
noise seemingly emanating from the transmission owing to its manifestation coinciding with 
gear downshifting, especially at low speeds.Satisfactory quality
This case is not clear cut. While there is a recognised issue there is clearly a dispute about 
how bad the problems are in Mrs Ws particular case. Mrs W has been credible and 
persuasive about how bad these are while the independent reports are not consistent with 
each other. I see no other reason why she would pack up a brand new car and substitute it 
with another if the problems were not sufficiently serious. Mrs W has had no enjoyment in 
using her car which was something she was originally hoping for.
Overall, I find the second report less persuasive in showing Mrs Ws car was likely of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied, especially in light of Mrs Ws credible testimony 
and the other evidence available. 
My overall impression is that these noises do not appear to be in line with what a reasonable 
person might expect from a car of this price and description. Im also aware  and nobody 
disputes this  that Mrs W was never warned of the potential noise this characteristic may 
entail. This, at least, would have given her an opportunity to make an informed decision.
I also note that Mrs W reported the issue early on. In this particular case, I dont think that 
VWFS has done enough to show that she hasnt got an inherent issue with her car that goes 
beyond what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking account of all the 
relevant circumstances including price and description.
My decision is on the balance of probabilities. On balance, for the reasons I have given 
above I think that Mrs Ws car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. 
And therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis I think she is entitled to have things put right.
Putting things right
All things considered, I dont think the solution proposed by the dealers is one that Mrs W 
should have to accept if she doesnt want to. There has been no suggestion that repairs 
should be carried out as the manufacturer believes the noise is a characteristic.
I think Mrs W should now be allowed her final right to reject the car. This would mean the car 
is collected from her, the finance agreement is cancelled and Mrs W has her deposit 
refunded (plus interest). Mrs Ws deposit contribution as reflected on the finance agreement 
is £5,657.68. VWFS was also asked to remove any negative information on Mrs Ws credit 
record (although Ive not seen any evidence there has been any).
I believe Mrs W has never used the car regularly. The evidence has shown the car has been 
registered as off road for some time. Our investigator believed VWFS should refund all 
monthly payments but two. Ive seen nothing to indicate this conclusion is incorrect.
Mrs W has also shared with us evidence of her other car-related costs. VWFS has not 
requested to see any of these.
Mrs W purchased additional items for the car which shes not got any use out of: two floor 
mats at £60 and sill protectors costing £34.20. Mrs W has asked me to consider paying for a 
car cover shes used to protect her car whilst its been on her driveway. But I believe this is a 
reusable item which may be used for another car so Im not adding this to the items being 
refunded.
She has also paid for insurance for the period May 2017 to June 2021. The four payments 
shes made are £467, £371.71, £346.92 and £377.76. VWFS wouldnt have been aware of 
the last payment as this was effective from 3 June 2020 but logically theyll have realised a further insurance payment was always due this June. A refund of the last payment can be 
based on the proportion of the years insurance Mrs W will have had to pay based on the 
date VWFS settle the complaint.
GAP insurance cost her £206.36 and the expert report £199.
Finally road tax was initially paid costing £145 and £150. The car has been registered as off 
the road since March 2019. The first year of road tax  costing £145  can be refunded 
proportionately as Mrs W used the car for two months.
Our investigator already confirmed to VWFS that Mrs W had not had to meet her annual 
service charge so they wouldnt be expected to refund this. Having recently been in touch 
with Mrs W I believe this situation remains the same.
Mrs W has asked me to consider whether VWFS should pay some of her replacement car 
costs and legal costs. Mrs W is having refunded the vast majority of her monthly payments 
related to this hire purchase agreement. This tries as much as is feasible to put her in the 
position she would have been in without taking out this credit agreement. In which case she 
would always have needed a car so I see no reason why I would ask VWFS to pay for her 
replacement car costs.
Our service does not require any party to hire legal support to bring any complaint to us. As 
stated earlier we are set up as a free (to complainants) alternative to the courts. Unless there 
were specific reasons  and Ive not seen any relevant here  it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to ask a business to repay a complainants legal costs.
And finally our investigator awarded £350 for the trouble caused to Mrs W. I am increasing 
this to £500. This reflects the time this has taken to resolve.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I instruct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mrs W;
refund her deposit of £5,657.68;
refund all but two of her monthly rental payments paid from April 2017;
remove any adverse data relating to the finance agreement from her credit file;
refund four insurance payments (being £467, £371.71, £346.92 and £377.76 (VWFS
only need to refund the latter payment on a pro rata basis);
refund GAP insurance costing £206.36 paid on 1 March 2018;
refund the cost of the expert report of £199 paid on 24 August 2017 or thereabouts;
refund road tax of £145 (on a pro-rata basis) paid on 1 March 2017 and £150 paid on
1 March 2018;
refund £34.20 for sill protectors paid on 27 February 2017;
refund £60 for floor mats paid on 3 March 2017; and
pay Mrs W £500 for the trouble caused.
VWFS should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If VWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman