DRN-3163420
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim she made under her 
furniture protection insurance policy.
References to Amtrust include its agents.
What happened
In late 2016, Mrs K purchased six dining chairs. She took out a furniture protection plan with 
Amtrust which provided cover for accidental staining and damage for five years from the 
date of delivery. 
In October 2020, Mrs K made a claim under the policy. She said shed placed the chairs in a 
line while she was vacuuming. She accidentally tripped and spilled a hot drink causing 
damage to all six chairs. 
Amtrust sent a technician to Mrs Ks home. He attempted to clean the chairs but was unable 
to remove the stains. He also completed a report for Amtrust, who decided to decline       
Mrs Ks claim. It said the damage wasnt covered because the technician had advised the 
staining on the chairs had happened during a build up over time. It wasnt consistent with a 
single incident. 
Mrs K raised a complaint with Amtrust. She disputed that it was a build up of dirt. She said it 
was a one-time stain. She said she was led to believe she would be given replacements or 
cash in a phone conversation with Amtrust.
Amtrust said Mrs Ks claim had been declined correctly, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. It said the claim handler shed spoken to over the phone, hadnt guaranteed 
Amtrust would replace the items or indicated that the claim had been accepted. Theyd told 
her they would call her with the next steps of the claim once they were in receipt of 
information theyd requested from the technician and the shop shed purchased the chairs 
from.
Mrs K remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mrs Ks concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Amtrust had acted fairly, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view. She initially said she would get her own 
independent report but decided not to because of the expense. She asked for her complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining Mrs Ks claim, Amtrust has referred to wording in the policys terms and 
conditions stating that any gradually occurring stain or damage, any gradually occurring 
general soiling which results in build up and any multiple stains occurring over a period of 
time is not covered.
Its important to explain that it isnt for me to decide how the damage was caused to Mrs Ks 
chairs. Ive needed to consider if Amtrusts decision to decline her claim was reasonable, 
based on the information available.
The technicians report says:
6 dining chairs. today i found all 6 dining chairs had stains on the seats and backs the 
customer stated it is from drinks and food from sitting at the table and eating, these are 
accidents but they are not a one off incident the stains I tempted to remove the worst ones 
on x2 seats but they have been absorbed by the fabric so they wont move at all (sic).
I can see that when Amtrust asked the technician for further information to clarify if he was 
able to identify stains from the spilt drink, he responded with:
Hi when i arrived the chairs were around the table nothing was mentioned to me about them 
being in a line and one spill had done this.  in my honest opinion they have happened over 
time and not a one off as some stains looked new some old and there was in grained dirt on 
them as well hope this helps (sic).
I appreciate Mrs Ks recollection of her conversation with the technician was different. But I 
think it was reasonable for Amtrust to have relied on the technicians assessment when 
deciding whether or not to accept her claim.
 
Mrs K has provided photographs of the chairs which appear to have been taken around a 
week before she says the damage occurred. She says these show that the chairs were in 
immaculate condition with no stains whatsoever. Its not clear if Mrs K provided Amtrust with 
these photographs when it was considering her claim. But theres only one photograph of all 
of the chairs together. The seats are mostly obscured and the picture itself isnt very clear. 
The other pictures show parts of individual chairs. So, even if they were shared with Amtrust, 
I cant say it should have accepted these as evidence that the only damage that occurred 
was due to a one-off incident.
Mrs K also raised concerns about the information she was given over the phone following 
the technicians visit. She says she was misled into believing her claim had been accepted 
and she would be given replacement chairs or cash. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs K has referred to and Im satisfied that the claim handler didnt 
guarantee that the claim would be accepted. He told Mrs K hed asked for further information 
from the technician and also asked the furniture shop if the same chairs were still available 
to be purchased. The claim handler said that once these two bits of information had come 
back, he would call Mrs K to discuss next steps.
I think Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
So, I dont require it to do anything further. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs K, 
but I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and will at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman