DRN-2543285
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt agree to reimburse him three 
months worth of monthly premiums hed paid for his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had the benefit of a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA (the policy).
The policy was covering ongoing medical treatment he was having. But in the Spring of 2020 
that treatment was suspended because medical facilities ordinarily used for privately funded 
treatment were being utilised by the NHS for treatment due the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr Hs policy was due to be renewed in June 2020 and because he was unable to access 
private treatment under his policy between March and June 2020, he thought it fair for AXA 
to reimburse him a sum equivalent to three months worth of premiums. He says hed 
intentionally selected the highest level of cover available (premier) so that he could be 
treated by his preferred consultant. And as AXA wasnt providing him with the service hed 
paid for, he doesnt think its fair that he was required to pay for the policy during that period.  
AXA didnt agree to this so Mr H chose not to renew the policy in June 2020 and complained 
to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As Mr H disagreed, his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Im satisfied AXAs decision not to reimburse Mr H for three 
monthly premiums hed paid for the policy between March and June 2020 is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
In early Spring 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This, understandably, temporarily affected 
AXAs ability to provide the full range of services it would usually be able to offer to 
customers under their medical insurance policies. I accept this unfortunately resulted in Mr H 
not being able to continue with treatment he required for a long-standing medical issue. I can 
imagine this was very frustrating for him considering the reasons why he says he picked the 
highest level of cover available was so the fees of a consultant could be covered as and 
when he required treatment for his long-standing condition. 
Whilst the services AXA ordinarily could provide under the policy were affected by the 
pandemic, it says some private services, in terms of diagnostics, and GP and specialist 
consultations were still available, to varying degrees. And AXA says it was still able to offer:
- consultations with specialists and practitioners over the phone and online (where 
clinically appropriate);
- cancer treatment at home (where clinically appropriate)
- phone and online assessments and treatment of musculoskeletal conditions
- access to its 24/7 Health at Hand helpline staffed by nurses, midwives, 
pharmacist;
- cash payment (up to £2000 a year) when a policyholder has free in-patient 
treatment under the NHS that it wouldve covered if the policyholder had the 
treatment privately.
AXA has also said that if a customer required eligible treatment or other services which were 
impacted by the pandemic at the time, they were able to register their claim to enable AXA to 
pre-authorise it. And as a result, treatment couldve been covered once private medical 
facilities became available again. 
Ive got no reason to doubt what AXA says about the services it was still able to offer under 
the policy towards the start of the pandemic. 
Mr H says he was not particularly interested in those benefits. He says the reason hed taken 
the level of cover he had was to cover his long-term and ongoing medical issue and he 
wasnt able to get treatment for this when he required it from a leading specialist. Whilst that 
may have been the case, Im satisfied that Mr H was capable of still deriving some benefit 
from the policy between the end of March 2020 and when the policy was due to renew in 
June 2020. 
I know Mr H feels AXAs offer of two months free premiums, should he renew the policy, 
was unfair. He says that new policyholders were being offered discounts as an incentive to 
take out private medical insurance with AXA. And that in his case, it amounted to blackmail 
because unless he renewed the policy, he wouldnt have received any rebate for the 
premiums paid during the early months of the pandemic (when AXAs services were 
restricted). But I disagree.
Once the impact of Covid-19 is fully understood AXA says it will review the wider impact on 
their customers, including Mr H. And if theres a reduction in its healthcares overall claims 
costs in 2020 and 2021 (combined), arising from delay in treatment due to the Covid-19 
pandemic - compared to 2019 - AXA has committed to pass back the difference to eligible 
customers. And this will be paid in proportion to the premiums individual customers paid 
(AXAs commitment). It hopes to pay any refunds to customers before March 2022 and 
AXA has also said that any calculation will be verified by an appropriate independent auditor. 
I know Mr H doesnt consider AXAs commitment good enough; he says its an attempt to 
extort premiums by bluster, manipulation and vague promises.  But I think AXAs intended 
course of action is reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Particularly because, as of 
June 2020 when Mr H made his complaint to AXA, the effects of the pandemic were ongoing 
- and its impact was uncertain (and remains so). 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of Mr Hs other comments including 
what he says about section 6.1 of the terms and conditions of his policy which says: in 
return for paying subscriptions, [AXA] will provide cover set out in the plan. 
I understand the point Mr H makes. And his inability to see his chosen consultant during the 
early months of the Covid-19 pandemic  or for him to benefit fully from the policy  was 
outside of his control. But it was also outside of AXAs control. It was due to the unprecedented and unforeseen impact of the pandemic resulting in medical facilities 
ordinarily used for privately funded treatment being utilised by the NHS for treatment. 
Ive also considered what he says about there being no mention of a forced majeure in the 
general exclusions of the policys terms and conditions, or any correspondence hes 
received from AXA.  And as such he says AXA cant rely on the sudden and unexpected 
impact of the pandemic to restrict the services its obliged to provide under the policy. 
However, Ive considered what the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint should be 
based on all the circumstances which includes, but isnt limited to, the policys terms and 
conditions. Having taken into account all the circumstances of this particular complaint, and 
for the reasons Ive fully set out above, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by not reimbursing Mr H three months premiums. Particularly given its offer of two months 
free premiums if he renewed the policy in June 2020 and AXAs commitment. 
Mr H says he paid for the policy with his credit card. So, he says he will make a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). To be clear, when determining 
this complaint, Ive focused on whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by not 
reimbursing Mr H for at least three months worth of monthly premiums. I dont consider that 
to be relevant to this complaint and I havent considered the merits of any claim Mr H may 
have under section 75.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman