DRN-4216164
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F have complained that Tremellen Jeffrey Allan Ltd failed to give them relevant 
advice.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F took out a Whole of Life plan in October 2006. 
In August 2016, the policy provider carried out their 10-year sustainability check.
It explained the £104.91 monthly premiums wouldnt support the £35,000 benefit
until the next review was carried out in 2021. Tremellen set out in writing what the options 
were for Mr F and Mrs F.
Mr F and Mrs F believe that they should have been given advice at this time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  they didnt find that 
Tremellen had done anything wrong. Mr F and Mrs F appealed. They said that they 
expected the Premier Advisory Service, which they were subscribed to, would include 
advice. They felt that the adviser had treated them unfairly.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine. I 
apologise for the time taken to reach this stage in our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint and focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. I recognise that Mr F and Mrs F will be 
disappointed by my decision, but for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our investigator:
Mr F and Mrs F had conversations with Tremellen to discuss the providers letter. 
Tremellen explained what the options were. Mr F and Mrs F asked Tremellen to find 
out what the benefit would be if they increased their premiums to £150. Tremellen 
provided this information. In September 2016, Mr F and Mrs F decided to reduce the 
sum assured to £16,202. Tremellen didnt advise them to do so  nor was it required 
to advise at this time. Rather it provided information for Mr F and Mrs F to make an 
informed decision as to how they wished to proceed. 
Im not persuaded that Mr F and Mrs F had paid for ongoing advice. Their client 
agreement said that the Premier Advisory Service was most suitable for clients who 
wish to receive an annual review of their affairs to ensure their investments continue 
to meet their needs and aspirations. On 17 June 2016 Mr F and Mrs F met with 
Tremellen but said they did not want a full financial review at that stage. I understand 
this was because of health problems Mrs F was experiencing.
However it is clear that the policy provider had sent Mr F and Mrs F enough 
information to reach an informed view, and Tremellen had answered further 
questions that they had related to that review. In all the circumstances I dont find that 
Tremellen failed to provide advice, acted contrary to the client agreement, or 
otherwise treated Mr F and Mrs F unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman