DRN-3344677
The complaint
Mr H and Miss C complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly 
handled a claim under their building warranty.
Mr H has led this complaint with our Service, so Ill mainly refer to him throughout.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known to all parties and has been discussed in detail by 
our Investigator previously. So, Ive summarised events.
In August 2018 Mr H moved into his new build property. Around October 2019 he 
discovered issues within an en-suite bathroom possibly caused by the extractor fan. 
This was reported to the builder (Company A) who carried out checks. 
Mr H appointed a specialist (Company B) to investigate. They said there was a 
thermal bridge within the house caused by a fault in construction and insulation to the 
four internal eves of the property  which led to the property not retaining heat 
properly, leading to paint peeling and mould.
Following back and forth between parties, NHBC became involved and engaged its 
resolution report process in February 2021. This directed Company A to address the 
insulation, mould and heat loss issues by March 2021. NHBC granted a small 
extension but the deadline wasnt met. 
So, NHBC took responsibility for the claim from 12 April 2021. It costed the scope of 
repairs to be £2,854.92. Mr H disagreed, saying this sum wasnt enough and 
complained about various issues, including the scope of works, additional associated 
costs, competency of NHBCs experts and requesting plans of the property.
NHBCs scope of works included works to the front elevation of the home, Mr H said 
this wasnt enough, and that all of the ceilings of the first floor needed replacement.
NHBC provided its final response on 26 July 2022, saying its proposals were fairly 
costed and sufficient to meet building regulations. It said the experts it appointed 
were suitably qualified. And the policy does cover alternative accommodation (AA) 
costs and removal of non-fitted furniture where necessary, but not fitted furniture. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this Service, saying NHBC should settle the complaint 
for a sum of around £78,000 which he said was necessary for appointing relevant 
experts and contractors alongside removals and AA costs.
Our Investigator looked into things. She said Company Bs report didnt persuade her 
NHBCs proposals were flawed or wouldnt meet technical requirements. And she 
said the costs Mr H had outlined werent supported by evidence to show they were 
necessary. She said NHBC wasnt required to share property plans, and she had no 
concerns about the qualifications of those involved.
But the Investigator did partially uphold the complaint, saying NHBC should pay for 
the fitted furniture removal. And that avoidable delays occurred around September 
2020, awarding £250 in compensation to reflect this. 
Mr H disagreed, providing a detailed response on why he felt NHBC should cover the 
additional repairs and his reasons for costs. He also obtained further commentary 
from Company B in January 2022, including smoke testing, in which he concluded all 
four eves were incorrectly formed and would need repairs to comply with NHBC 
technical requirements.
The Investigator said the additional evidence demonstrated there were issues with 
the construction of all four dropped eves amounting to breaches of NHBC 
requirements. So, she said NHBC should deal with the rectification to all four eves.
NHBC disagreed, saying the fitted furniture did not fall under the policy, and that the 
compensation awarded related to a period outside of the jurisdiction of this Service  
prior to 31 March 2021. It also said it disagreed works to all four eves were 
necessary, saying it would provide information to explain this. But we havent been 
sent anything further since February 2022. 
The Investigator looked again, she directed NHBC to accept the wider scope of 
repairs including all four eves, reconsider any associated costs submitted by Mr H, 
and settle the cost of the second report produced by Company B. She also agreed 
with NHBC she was unable to compensate Mr H for the period prior to the resolution 
report being produced.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim
Within its resolution report, NHBC identified thermal bridge issues and insulation that 
was incorrectly installed causing heat loss to the first floor. This specifically mentions 
potential problems with the eves that would need to be investigated and says it is 
unclear where a draught is coming from.
In line with the policy, NHBC took responsibility for repairs following Company A 
failing to action the damage within the required timeframe. So, Im satisfied all of the 
eves of the property fall within the scope of the claim in question.
NHBC has given its reasoning as to why it believed its proposed works would be 
sufficient for bringing the property up to meet its technical requirements.
NHBC has since been provided with Company Bs second report. This details why 
the specialists view was that all four eves are incorrectly formed, and that a more 
limited repair would amount to a breach of NHBC requirements. Ive included a 
section of this below.
all the drop eaves details have been incorrectly formed and all of these should 
be altered to ensure that the detailing complies with the approved NHBC 
details It is also worth recording that the proposal by the NHBC to only carry 
out remedial work to one side of the property would leave the property with, what 
is essentially, a non-compliant and under-performing building in terms of heat 
loss.
Taking into account the smoke testing and the strength of opinion given by this 
specialist, I find their commentary and evidence to be persuasive. And as Ive outlined above, NHBC hasnt provided any expert opinion or evidence in response to 
this. So, in these circumstances Im satisfied NHBC should agree to repair/replace all 
four drop eves in line with Company Bs recommendations.
Additional costs
Mr H has provided details of many costs he would like NHBC to cover. As our 
Investigator has outlined previously, we would expect costs of this nature to be 
supported by clear quotes and expert evidence where necessary if the scope differs 
from NHBCs proposed settlement.
In light of my above direction about the scope of works, NHBC will need to reassess 
the claim to consider what additional costs may be necessary. So, I do not think it 
would be helpful to direct NHBC to agree to any set sum at this time as this will be 
subject to change. 
But I direct NHBC to reconsider any claims related costs in light of this change of 
works, including storage and alternative accommodation where necessary. And any 
additional costs Mr H has sought in light of any further evidence hes provided. 
There was a dispute about the removal of fitted wardrobes. I would expect NHBC to 
consider the removal of any such items within any settlement it provides if this is 
necessary for an effective and lasting repair.
Company Bs second report has been significant in this claim in leading to a change 
of NHBCs position. As a result, Im in agreement with our Investigator that NHBC will 
need to cover the costs of this specific report  upon receipt of the relevant invoice.
Should any issues remain unresolved after NHBCs reconsideration, this may be a 
matter Mr H chooses to bring back to this Service as a separate complaint. 
Claims handling 
As our Investigator has outlined, this Service can only consider a complaint about a 
claim of this nature after a deadline within NHBCs resolution report has expired. So, 
while Im sympathetic to the stresses Mr H has experienced over a number of years 
prior to March 2021, I simply do not have the power to consider this period. 
Between the date of NHBC taking responsibility for the claim and its final response, 
Im satisfied the claim moved at a reasonable pace. I understand the disagreement 
about the scope of works will have been frustrating to Mr R, but NHBC relied on its 
expert opinions and like our Investigator, I dont think it had any reason to change its 
position on this until the January 2022 report Mr R obtained. So, I wouldnt look to 
compensate him for this time.
Mr H has questioned the competency and qualifications of NHBCs staff or agents. 
While its clear to me there is a disagreement between parties on the necessary 
resolution of this claim, Im not persuaded that the disagreement alone extends to 
support Mr Hs allegations. So, this isnt something Im going to make a direction on.
Mr H has sought specific house plans from NHBC. I consider this to be a matter 
between him and Company A and not connected to the Buildmark policy Ive been 
asked to consider.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct National House-Building Council to:
accept within its claim that all four dropped eves of the property will need to be altered to ensure that the detailing complies with the approved NHBC guidelines.
reconsider all necessary costs for an effective and lasting repair (including alternative 
accommodation, removal and storage of items, and costs put forward by Mr H) in line 
with the policys terms and conditions. 
reimburse Mr Hs costs in instructing Company Bs second report and smoke testing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman