DRN-2890409
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit 
card account and later increased his credit limit which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr W says Aqua didnt carry out any affordability checks on his credit card account 
application or on any of the later credit limit increases. He says he was in financial difficulties 
at the time and Aquas lending was irresponsible and unaffordable. Mr W would like all 
interest and charges refunded.
Aqua says the account was opened in 2017 and Mr W declared an income of £26,000 with 
additional household income of a further £26,000. It says it carried out appropriate checks on 
the application as well as on the later credit limit increases and that it calculated Mr Ws debt 
at the time as £200. Aqua says Mr W managed his account appropriately and made all 
required payments often in excess of required amounts. It says it checked Mr Ws credit file 
and that there was no adverse information recorded on it in the months before the 
application and that Mr W made required payments until 2019. The last credit limit increase 
was in 2018.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Aqua carried out appropriate checks on the application and on the later credit limit 
increases. The investigator thought Aqua was entitled to consider Mr Ws appropriate 
account management and lack of adverse information on his credit file. The investigator 
thought the financial difficulties were caused by Mr Ws wife being unable to work due to an 
injury.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he had other loans and credit card accounts at the 
time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the credit or lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than a loan 
or mortgage and so I wouldnt expect Aquas checks to have been as detailed as for those 
types of lending.
I appreciate Mr W says Aqua didnt carry out any checks on his application or on the later 
credit limit increases. But I dont think that is the case and Im satisfied such checks were 
carried out and that Aqua fairly considered Mr Ws income and calculated the level of his 
debts. I appreciate Mr W says he had other debts at the time, but I dont think he has 
provided any evidence of them or provided a copy of his credit file. Im satisfied that Aqua 
fairly took in to account the lack of recent adverse information on Mr Ws credit file before 
approving what I think was a modest credit limit of £300. So, I dont think Aqua made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by approving Mr Ws credit card application and that its lending 
decision wasnt unaffordable or irresponsible.
I have looked carefully at Aquas records and can see that Mr W managed his account 
appropriately before the credit limit increases in 2018 which I think he could have rejected. I 
can see Mr W made all required payments and normally paid significantly more than the 
minimum required payment. And that Aqua did carry out further checks on the credit limit 
increases and considered the account usage which I dont think suggested any financial 
difficulties. It follows that I dont think the credit limit increases were unaffordable or 
irresponsible.
Mr W has told us that his wife was unable to work and that he had to cover the household 
bills. I think on balance that was likely to have been the reason for Mr Ws financial 
difficulties and not Aquas lending decision. I cant fairly hold Aqua responsible for that 
significant change in Mr Ws circumstances. I also think Mr W made required payments for 
some time after the last credit limit increase which I think provides additional evidence the 
lending at the time was affordable.
Overall, Im satisfied Aqua did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ws 
credit card account and on the credit limit increases. It follows that I cant fairly order Aqua to 
refund any interest as Mr W would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman