DRN-4056473
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Capital One (Europe) Plc handled her request for a refund in 
respect of a holiday she booked for members of her family which didnt go ahead.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs S booked a trip consisting of flights and accommodation for her son 
and his partner with a travel agent Ill call Y. She paid £788 using her Capital One credit 
card. The trip was due to take place in April 2020.
In early April 2020 Mrs Ss son contacted Y to say his partner had been told to shield at 
home and asked it to contact him.
Mrs S said sometime after this she was told the flights had been cancelled by the respective 
airline. She contacted Y before the trip to explain this and asked it to help her get a refund.
In May 2020 Y wrote to Mrs Ss son to explain that refunds were taking longer than usual 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It offered him a refund credit voucher against the booking 
with an extra £100 towards any future holiday which it said would allow additional time to 
make a decision about future travel arrangements and also allow us more time to receive 
your money back from the airlines and onward suppliers, should you decide on a cash 
refund.
Mrs S said when her son tried to make a booking with the voucher in 2021 he was unable to 
get hold of Y and this has remained the position since then.
Mrs S asked Capital One to step in and help in June 2022. Capital One said it couldnt help 
as it was too late to recover the funds via a process known as chargeback. 
It also considered her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). But 
it didnt think there was a valid claim because it considered the holiday remained available 
for Mrs S to use.
Capital One credited Mrs Ss account with £50 because it didnt think it had explained its 
reasons for declining her claim very well initially.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 setting out why I planned to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ive extracted the most relevant parts below, which now also form part of this final 
decision:
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a 
supplier who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money 
from the supplier through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether 
its customer has a valid claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for 
a payment Mrs S made to be refunded. While it is good practice for a bank to attempt 
a chargeback where the right exists and there is some prospect of success, the 
circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for the bank to raise 
a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the relevant card 
scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
The relevant scheme rules in this case set out that a chargeback had to be raised 
within 120 days of the last expected date of delivery of the service  which in this 
case would have been when Mrs S expected the holiday to take place in 2020. Mrs S 
brought her complaint to Capital One in June 2022. If it had raised a chargeback at 
this point, it seems likely it would have been defended on the basis it had not met the 
necessary conditions of the card scheme in respect of time limits. So, its unlikely it 
would have succeeded. I dont therefore find Capital One treated Mrs S unfairly by 
not pursuing this route.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
One of these criteria is that the claim must relate to a transaction financed by a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. Broadly speaking in this case this means 
Capital One must have financed a transaction between Mrs S and Y.
The investigator said Capital One didnt finance a transaction between Mrs S and Y, 
rather, it financed one between the travelling parties and Y. However, I see things 
differently. Mrs S said she made the booking with Y over the phone. She has 
provided the booking confirmation email as well as some post booking 
communications that Y sent to her. These communications were addressed 
specifically to Mrs S and sent to her email address. The paperwork also refers to 
your booking for example when addressing Mrs S.
Ive also looked at Ys terms and conditions. These explain that the person in whose 
name the booking is made acts on behalf of all other guests and it becomes his/her 
responsibility for all payments.
Thinking about all of this, I think Mrs S was party to a transaction with Y that was 
financed by Capital One. So, it appears there was a DCS agreement in this case.
Given Mrs Ss complaint I therefore need to consider whether Y breached its contract 
with her.
Capital One said there was no breach of contract as the holiday was still available to 
take. It hasnt provided any evidence to support this however, so Ive not given it 
much weight. And the evidence I have seen suggests otherwise.
 
Mrs S emailed Y on 9 April 2020, told it the flight had been cancelled and asked for 
its help to obtain a refund. Mrs S doesnt have the communication from the airline, 
but Ive looked at some historical flight information online and it doesnt appear the 
airline Mrs Ss family were flying with were flying to their destination in April 2020. On 
balance, it appears the flights were cancelled.Ive looked at Ys terms and conditions, to see whether the cancellation of the flights
amounted to a breach of contract in this case. There is a section which deals with
amendments to the booking by Y or the supplier of the travel services. It says:
(Y) may make changes to your booking if the supplier/hotel asks us to do so, 
or in circumstances where it becomes a need. However most of the changes 
will be minor and we will advise you before your journey beyond our control 
we will provide you with alternative and we will not be liable to offer any 
commences. For any significant changes which are beyond our control.
I found it difficult to make much sense of the term. But a reasonable interpretation of  
it would appear to be that in the event Y needed to make a change to the booking, 
that was not minor and in circumstances beyond its control, it would provide an 
alternative.
Ive explained why I find the flights were most likely cancelled by the airline. So, it 
appears it had become a need for Y to make a change to Mrs Ss booking. Clearly 
cancellation of the flights was not a minor change. And Y had no control over the 
airlines decision to cancel the flights. So, in these circumstances it appears Y was 
obliged to provide an alternative.
An alternative in this case might reasonably have been replacement flights or 
something else.
Ive not seen evidence Y offered Mrs S new flights. Ive also considered whether the 
refund credit voucher was an alternative. However, its clear from the way Y 
communicated the offer of the voucher that it was intended as something that could 
be used while Mrs S decided if she wanted a refund. And as it turned out, it appears 
Mrs Ss son was unable to use the voucher to make a new booking with Y anyway  
despite contacting it on numerous occasions to redeem it.
So, I dont think it can be said that Y provided an alternative in this case. It appears
therefore that it likely breached its contract with Mrs S. As a result, it appears Mrs S 
as the booking party could have claimed for a refund of the amount she paid for the 
booking. 
Thinking about everything I find that Capital One treated Mrs S unfairly by declining 
to meet her claim for a refund. I find it would be fair and reasonable in this case for it 
treat Mrs S as if it had met her claim and pay her £788 plus interest from when it 
declined the claim in June 2022 until the date of settlement.
Capital One identified that it failed to provide adequate reasons for declining Mrs Ss 
claim when it first contacted her about it. It paid her £50 compensation for this. I dont  
find Capital One needs to pay Mrs S any more than this. It gave fuller reasons within 
a month (albeit ones I dont agree with) so it rectified its failing in that respect within a 
reasonable time.
Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision. 
Capital One said it had nothing to add. 
The complaint was therefore passed back to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Capital One nor Mrs S had any new comments or evidence to provide, I see no 
reason to change the findings I made in my provisional decision 
So, for the reasons I explained in the extracts from my provisional decision above, I still find 
that Capital One treated Mrs S unfairly by declining to meet her claim for a refund. And I still 
find the fairest way of putting things right is to treat Mrs S as if it had met her claim for £788 
and pay interest on this amount from when it declined to meet it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. To put things right Capital One (Europe) 
Plc must pay Mrs S £788 plus interest of 8% simple per annum from 23 June 2022 until the 
date of settlement*.
*If Capital One (Europe) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman