DRN-3153288
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that H J Roelofs (UK) Limited (HJR) mis-sold him a business protection
insurance policy.
What happened
In or around October 2015 HJR sold Mr L a business protection policy, which covered him
for a year. That policy was renewed in 2016 but lapsed in October 2017, as Mr L didnt
renew it.
In November 2018, so over a year later, Mr L contacted HJR as he wanted to take out 
another business protection policy. He asked for it to be backdated to September 2018 but 
after HJR said it couldnt arrange this, he agreed to take out the policy commencing 
19 November 2018 which covered him for a year. The policy covered Mr L for malpractice 
liability, product liability, public liability and business possessions. And it was renewed in 
November 2019.
In December 2019, Mr L received a letter of claim on behalf of a former client alleging
negligence, sexual assaults, trespass to the person and intention to inflict harm. Mr L
subsequently made a claim on the professional indemnity and malpractice liability section of
the policy to cover the defence of the claim hed been notified of.
The claim was declined on the basis that the claim against Mr L related to sexual
misconduct, which was excluded under the policy.
Mr L says the policy was mis-sold. He says the nature of the work he was doing  which
involved a form of sexual therapy  meant that the policy wasnt suitable for his needs.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Given that the outcome of this complaint is
closely linked to the outcome of Mr Ls complaint that the insurer unfairly declined his claim,
Mr Ls representative asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to
uphold Mr Ls complaint. An extract of which appears below:
HJR has confirmed that it advised Mr L to take out the policy in November 2018. So, not 
only did it have an obligation to ensure that it was suitable for his needs, it also had to 
provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the 
policy.
Based on communications received from Mr L in November 2018, Im satisfied that hed
informed HJR that the nature of the therapy he required cover for had changed. He said he
would no longer be practicing therapy which involved genital touch and would be focusing on
psychosexual therapy and bodywork techniques. The insured activities as detailed on the
schedule of insurance for the period November 2018  November 2019 are talk therapy and
bodywork. Those are the same insured activities listed on the schedule of insurance
covering the period November 2019  November 2020, after the policy was renewed.
In light of the insured activities, Ive considered whether the following exclusion made the
policy unsuitable:
the policy does not indemnify [Mr L] against any loss, liability, Claim or Defence
Costs arising out of, caused by, resulting from, in consequence of, in connection with
or in any way involving...
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
Any sexual misconduct of any nature, including sexual relations, sexual contact or
intimacy, sexual harassment, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation or sexual
discrimination, whether or not under the guise or in the course of therapy or
treatment. 
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
I dont know to what extent (if at all), HJR explored Mr Ls needs for the policy and its
suitability given the policy exclusions. There doesnt appear to have been much paperwork
from the time setting out the discussions and I havent been provided with a demands and
needs statement, for example.
But Im not persuaded that this exclusion made the policy unsuitable when it was sold in
November 2018 given the change in the areas, Mr L was practicing in. As I understand, Mr L 
wasnt engaging in sexual contact or intimacy as part of his therapy techniques from
November 2018. And its common, as in this case, for professional indemnity insurance to
only cover something which has gone wrong in the course of the business being carried out.
Further, even if the type of therapy Mr L was involved in did leave him open to allegations
and claims of malpractice of a sexual nature, the underwriter of the policy has confirmed that
it wouldnt have been able to remove the sexual misconduct exclusion  or provide another
policy which wouldve covered claims alleging sexual misconduct. Its said sexual
misconduct isnt an area it wishes to cover.
Further, the manging director of HJR has provided a statement in which he says:
A policyholder cannot, as a matter of principle, insure against their own criminality or
sexually inappropriate behaviour. Such cover does not exist and there are sound
moral and legal reasons for this.
Further and to the best of my knowledge the insurance policy [Mr L] had was the
only policy of insurance that was available at the time that would cover [Mr L] for the
therapies he was undertaking. Therefore, as sexual misconduct was excluded on this
policy, it could not have been covered by an alternative policy with another insurer.
Ive seen nothing else to suggest that Mr L wouldve been able to obtain another policy 
with a different insurance provider - which wouldve covered claims malpractice claims
involving sexual misconduct for his particular business. That being case, Im not currently
persuaded that the policy he was sold in November 2018 was an unsuitable
recommendation as its unlikely that Mr L wouldve been able to get cover for claims brought
against him involving sexual misconduct.
Further, Mr L still had the benefit of the malpractice liability section of the policy, which
subject to the remaining terms of the policy, covered him for claims which didnt involveallegations of sexual misconduct. He also had the benefit of the other sections of the policy 
which couldve been of great benefit to him, particularly given the premium hed paid for the 
policy (which was around £90 per annum in 2018, increasing to around £100 per annum the 
following year).
Ive also considered whether HJR shouldve advised Mr L to buy a run-off insurance policy
to cover claims which mightve been made under the policy taken out in
November 2018 for historical incidents relating to discontinued insured activities going
back to 2 October 2015 (the retroactive date set out in the certificate of insurance).
The statement of HJRs managing director also reflects that because Mr Ls insurance had
previously lapsed:
no run-off cover would have been available as there had been a break of cover
Further, as the claim falls within the sexual misconduct exclusion, even if run of cover
had been available, which is denied, the claim would not have been covered.
Given that Im currently satisfied that there wasnt a similar policy available to Mr L (as of
November 2018) which wouldve covered him for claims relating to sexual misconduct, Im
also currently persuaded that there wouldnt have been a run-off insurance policy available
to him to purchase to run alongside the policy which was sold to him in November 2018. So,
I currently accept what the managing director of HJR says about HJR not being able to offer
him any run off cover. So, even if this was something that shouldve been considered  but
wasnt  I dont think this had any impact in this particular case. Its likely that Mr L wouldve
ended up with the policy he bought, for the reasons already stated above.
I dont know whether Mr L was informed about the main terms of the policy in a clear, fair
and not misleading way, at the time the policy was sold to him  including the exclusion. I
can see that he was told about certain features such as the cost of the policy before the
policy was sold. And the insurance certificate sets out one of the conditions of the policy as
being: excluding discrimination, sexual misconduct. But its possible Mr L wasnt told about
the exclusion before he agreed to take the policy out and / or been given examples of what
amounts to sexual misconduct under the policy.
But for the reasons why Im intending to find that the policy wasnt unsuitable for Mr L, as
outlined above, Im not currently persuaded that if hed been given all the information that he
shouldve been in a clear, fair and not misleading way, he wouldve chosen not to have taken
out the policy.
For example, even if he had been given clearer information about the exclusion, Im not
currently persuaded that would have stopped him taking out the policy given that theres
nothing to suggest that he couldve taken out another policy which wouldve covered sexual
misconduct. He wanted a business protection policy. And its unlikely that any policy
wouldve covered sexual misconduct as a standard feature of professional indemnity and / or
malpractice liability insurance.
So, Im intending to find that the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr L. Even if I thought that the
policy benefits and exclusions hadnt been explained to Mr L as they ought to have been, the
available evidence doesnt persuade me hed have not chosen this policy or taken out a
different one.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further
information they felt was relevant.
Response to my provisional decision:HRJ confirmed that it had no further submissions to make. 
Mr L didnt agree with my proposed findings. His representative raised several points in reply 
on Mr Ls behalf. 
In summary Mr L says:
My provisional assessment of HJRs conduct is damning but despite my provisional 
findings, Ive concluded that it shouldnt be liable. This isnt a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances. 
I appear to agree that HJR breached its professional duties when selling the policy. 
But I go on to provisionally find that Mr L wouldve purchased the policy anyway, 
without evidence of any fact-find at all.
Its not clear whether HJR has provided our Service with evidence of the cover Mr L 
mightve been able to obtain from other brokers in the market if the policy HRJ had 
recommended to him didnt meet his demands and needs. HRJ being unable to offer 
a more appropriate form of exclusion to Mr L is irrelevant. Absent that evidence, 
there is no basis to conclude that, despite a professional breach by HRJ, Mr L hasnt 
been prejudiced.
By failing to advise Mr L what the policy did and didnt cover, he was deprived of a 
proper opportunity to consider his own position and professional activities during the 
relevant periods of cover. He mightve, for example, limited his practice, altered his 
activities or put additional risk management steps in place in circumstances where an 
onerous exclusion has been properly drawn to his attention and explained. 
A professional can insure themselves against civil claims against them arising from 
the subject matter of their practice such as professional negligence. For example, a 
doctor can (and routinely does) insure his or herself against a claim for battery where 
a patient alleges that consent given to an invasive procedure was negligently 
obtained and not, therefore, informed.
There is no principle of law or insurance practice which prevents a form of exclusion 
that better meets the needs of a practising therapist (had those needs been properly 
identified by HJR in the first place).
Absent of proper professional advice, Mr L was deprived the opportunity of taking 
alternative advice (if needed) and properly insuring himself against historic liabilities. 
Another run-off provider might have provided the relevant cover. Absent a proper 
investigation of the market, and consideration of what terms might have been 
available from other brokers/insurers, this is a clear example of a breach of HJRs 
professional duties. 
A competent broker shouldve advised Mr L that, by limiting the scope of his future 
claims-made policy, run-off cover would be required for his historic activities. If the 
insurer couldnt provide that cover, the correct advice would have been to source it 
from elsewhere. Theres no evidence this advice was considered by HRJ, let alone 
provided. This is a breach of HRJs professional duty.
In light of the further points raised by Mr L, I arranged for him to be sent the witness 
statement of HRJs managing director, referred to in my provisional decision for comment. I also asked Mr L if he was able to provide our Service with any evidence that:
in October 2015 and November 2018, there wouldve been a similar policy available 
for him to purchase as a sole trader  which didnt include a sexual misconduct 
exclusion. 
in or around November 2018, Mr L wouldve been able to purchase run-off insurance 
cover for claims relating to alleged acts which took place in previous years, in 
circumstances where there had been a break in insurance cover for over one year 
and which didnt include a sexual misconduct exclusion. 
Having spoken to another broker, Mr L confirmed that it was unable to identify a different
policy specifically covering licenced sexual therapists.
However, Mr L provided our Service with policy terms relating to other trades (including 
gentlemans clubs offering nude lap-dancing services), where he says insurers may have 
similar concerns. Namely the performance of sexual acts during lawful trade, and the risk of 
criminal sexual misconduct arising from those otherwise lawful sexual acts. 
Mr L says the alternative policy hes provided doesnt contain a specific exclusion relating to 
sexual misconduct. Instead the policy contains a deliberate acts exclusion which, he says, 
would exclude an insurers liability for sexual misconduct where the necessary criminal 
element of intention is established against the policyholder. 
However, he says this wording would not exclude a purely civil claim, brought in tort, by a 
customer against an employee/ the establishment theyre working for - solely by virtue of the 
relevant injury (whatever it might be) having arisen during the course of otherwise lawful 
sexual activity. 
Mr L also confirmed that without undertaking a full marketing exercise between a broker and 
other possible insurers it was unable to confirm whether Mr L wouldve been able to 
purchase run-off insurance to cover claims made relating to allegations of sexual 
misconduct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all further submissions put forward on behalf of Mr L. Although I havent 
addressed every point Mr Ls raised, I mean no discourtesy. Ive instead focused on the 
points that I consider to be most relevant to this complaint. 
And having considered everything afresh, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision (an extract of which appears above), Ive explained why I 
think Mr L wouldve still taken out the policy even if HRJ hadnt complied with its 
regulatory obligations when selling the policy to him. And, considering all of Mr Ls 
further submissions, and the other policy document Ive been provided with, Im 
satisfied thats still the case.
Mr Ls representatives have confirmed that they have spoken to another broker and 
given the nature of Mr Ls business, it was unable to identify a different policy 
covering the specific therapy Mr L was undertaking. Although, Ive been provided with another policy document  and Ive taken into 
account Mr Ls points about what it demonstrates - Ive placed less weight on the 
terms of this policy. Thats because it relates to a different line of business to the one 
in which Mr L practices. As such, Im not persuaded its a business protection 
insurance policy he couldve taken out to protect himself and his business.
I therefore remain persuaded that the policy Mr L ended up with was the
only business protection policy available at the time which would cover him for the 
therapies he was undertaking - as the managing director of HRJ has said in his 
witness statement. The policy contained the exclusion and sexual misconduct 
wouldnt have been covered by an alternative policy, with a different insurance 
provider, in respect of the activities Mr L was undertaking. 
As I havent been provided with any evidence that run-off insurance wouldve been 
available for Mr L to purchase in November 2018, I remain persuaded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Mr L wouldnt have been able to obtain this insurance to 
run alongside the policy which was sold to him in November 2018 - as the managing 
director of HRJ has said in his witness statement.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Mr L says HRJs failure to meet its 
regulatory obligations deprived him of a proper opportunity to consider his own position and 
professional activities during the relevant periods of cover. He says he mightve limited his 
practice, altered his activities or put additional risk management steps in place in 
circumstances where an onerous exclusion has been properly drawn to his attention and 
explained. 
However, when Mr L was sold the policy in November 2018 (which renewed in November 
2019), the insured business had changed somewhat. So, even if he wasnt given sufficient 
information about the exclusion in a clear, fair and not misleading way, it would seem from 
what he told HRJ at the time, the nature of the insured business had already changed by 
then and he wasnt intending to practise therapy which included taking part in sexual 
activities. 
And even if Mr L wasnt told about the exclusion when taking out the policy in October 2015, 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me on a balance of probabilities that he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the type of pioneering therapy that he appears to have been renowned for at 
the time. Mr L has only said he might have limited his practice, altered his activities or put 
additional risk management steps in place had he been made aware of the exclusion. 
I understand the point he makes but I think thats too speculative for me to reasonably 
conclude that hes likely to have taken such steps, which may or may not have prevented the 
allegations that were later made against him. And which he sought cover for under the policy 
which was sold to him by HRJ.
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint 
against HJR. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against H J Roelofs (UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman