DRN-3771294
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she couldnt cancel a fixed sum loan agreement that she took out with 
Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi, to finance an online educational programme 
for her children.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs C bought an online educational programme for her children from a 
supplier Ill call E. She paid for the course using a fixed sum loan from Duologi borrowing 
£4,716, at 0% interest and repayable over 60 months. 
Mrs C said the programme was sold to her at home by a salesperson of E. She said the 
salesperson told her the programme was a subscription-based service that she could cancel 
at any time.
Mrs Cs children used the programme until late 2020 when Mrs C asked E if she could 
cancel the subscription. E replied and said it couldnt help because Mrs C made her 
purchase using an interest free finance agreement and the cancellation period for that had 
passed. E referred Mrs C to Duologi. When Mrs C contacted Duologi she said it referred her 
back to E as it said it had no authority to cancel the agreement. 
Mrs C complained to Duologi in April 2022. Duologi didnt provide a substantive response to 
Mrs Cs complaint so she referred her complaint to this service. 
After learning of this, Duologi said Mrs C would have been taken through a comprehensive 
presentation of the products and finance options and that by signing the various documents, 
Mrs C confirmed her agreement and understanding of the arrangements. Duologi didnt 
believe the programme had been sold as a subscription-based service and it thought the 
paperwork Mrs C signed made it clear this wasnt the case. 
An investigator thought Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs C had been led 
to believe by Es salesperson that the programme was a subscription that could be cancelled 
at any time, and she wouldnt have entered into the agreement had she known that wasnt 
the case. He asked Duologi to cap Mrs Cs liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments 
due when Mrs C first contacted E or Duologi to cancel. 
Mrs C agreed with the investigators assessment.
Dulogi did not agree with the investigators assessment and asked an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It said, in summary:
There is no evidence at all to support that Mrs C bought a subscription and all 
of the sales paperwork makes clear it she was signing up to a finance 
agreement and the course could only be cancelled in the first 14 days.
It was reasonable to expect Mrs C to have read and understood any 
document put in front of her before signing it.
The investigator had unfairly dismissed its evidence and favoured an 
unsupported and unevidenced recollection from Mrs C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C paid for the educational programme through a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Duologi. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Duologi is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, E. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here.
Also, Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 56) has the effect of making E 
an agent of Duologi during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs C entering into 
the loan agreement. This means Duologi can be held responsible for the things E said or 
didnt say, and what it did or didnt do during the sales process. This would include all the 
discussions Mrs C had with Es salesperson on the day she agreed to buy the programme.
Duologi has provided a number of documents which it says were signed during the process 
of selling the programme to Mrs C. Mrs C hasnt said that these documents are not genuine 
or that she did not sign them, so Ive proceeded on the basis that these are documents she 
signed.
Its generally held that if someone has signed a document they are taken to have read and 
understood it. I think in most circumstances the documents Mrs C signed would have left a 
reasonable person with the impression that they had 14 days to cancel their purchase. So, 
the starting point here might be that Mrs C had understood and agreed that she would only 
have 14 days to cancel her purchase once she had received the DVDs and any associated 
materials from E.
However, while what has been set out in writing often represents what has been agreed 
between the relevant parties, it does not always reflect what was said during the 
conversations leading up to the contract being entered into. This is important, as it is during 
these verbal conversations where misunderstandings tend to occur, and sometimes these 
occur due to incorrect or false information being given.
Mrs C said she thought the programme was a subscription-based service from the way it 
was explained to her by the adviser. She has said she specifically recalls asking the adviser 
what would happen if her children returned to their age-related expectations and was told the 
payment could be cancelled at any time if the programme was no longer required. 
One could say that this was such a significant promise that Mrs C should have obtained this 
in writing so she could point to it in the event of a later dispute. Clearly, she did not, and this 
fact doesnt help her case. However, there are some factors in this case which weigh in her 
favour.
Mrs Cs actions and the way she described the programme when she no longer wanted it 
support what shes said she was told about the way payment would work. Mrs C contacted 
E, not Duologi asking if she could cancel her subscription. 
As was pointed out by the investigator the FCA wrote to credit brokers in 2020 outlining 
some key risks for them to consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering 
credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in consumers 
homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where sales took place 
without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual 
firms, but Im mindful of the fact that Es sale to Mrs C fit at least some of the criteria the FCA 
identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling: E brokered a credit agreement between 
Mrs C and Duologi in order to sell her a product, in her home.
Mrs C has also said that she wasnt afforded much time to read through the paperwork she 
was being asked to sign. I note from the audit trail of signed documents that all of the finance 
documents E asked Mrs C to sign were signed within two minutes of each other, including 
the pre contract credit information and the credit agreement itself. This in my view supports 
what Mrs C said about not having much time to read the documents. It seems that Mrs C 
was therefore more likely to rely on what she was being told by the adviser about how the 
agreement would work.  
Finally, this is not the first time this service has seen a case involving E. We have seen a 
number of cases where complainants have claimed they were advised by Es salespeople 
that they could cancel the programme at any time, or that they were using it on a pay as you 
go basis. There doesnt seem to have been anything connecting Mrs Cs complaint with the 
others weve received, other than the fact the products in question were sold by E. While this 
does not mean salespeople routinely gave incorrect information, it suggests to me that 
misunderstandings may have occurred not infrequently during the sales process.
Having considered the evidence and the factors Ive outlined above very carefully, I accept 
Mrs Cs testimony that she was given verbal assurances that she could cancel and stop 
paying for the programme at any time. This means I think she was given incorrect 
information about her cancellation rights. Mrs C doesnt appear to have wanted to have been 
tied into a long contract. From what she has said it appears she only wanted to use the 
programme to help her children get back to their age-related expectations so might only 
have required it for a limited period of time. So, I dont think shed have gone ahead if she 
had not been given this incorrect information. Due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs C can hold Duologi liable for the incorrect information 
provided by Es salesperson. So, it needs to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I dont think Mrs C would have agreed to enter the contract for the
educational programme and related services, had she not been given incorrect
information. However, I understand her children used the programme for a time, so I
think it is right that she pays something.
Its not clear to me what the current status of the loan is, but our investigator thought Mrs
C should pay up to the point at which she first tried to cancel. This looks to have been 
around 13 October 2020. However, looking at the lesson report thats been provided, it 
appears the programme was in fact used up until 14 December 2020. I dont think Mrs C 
should be responsible for any payments she was due to make after this point rather than the 
point she asked to cancel as its fair she pays for what was used.
Im therefore directing Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi to take the following 
actions:
Cap Mrs Cs liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as
of 14 December 2020. Anything above this amount must be written off and no longer 
pursued.If Mrs C has paid more than her capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the
date she made each overpayment, to the date she receives a refund.
If Mrs C has paid less than her capped liability then an affordable repayment plan
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mrs Cs credit file, and
mark it as settled from 14 December 2020. If Mrs C has not paid up to her capped 
liability then Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi does not need to mark the 
loan as settled until she has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mrs C for the return of any programme materials, DVDs and anything
else she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services
supplied under the contract.
*If Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Specialist Lending Limited 
trading as Duologi to take the action set out in the putting things right section of this 
decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman