DRN-3950151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited handled a sickness 
claim that Mr B made on a mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was off work due to having an operation in November 2019 and therefore made a claim 
on the policy. Mr and Mrs B returned the claim form in December 2019. The claim was 
eventually accepted and paid out in May 2021 following involvement from this service.
Fairmead accepted responsibility for some delays and so offered Mr and Mrs B £120 
compensation. But it said that part of the delay was the result of awaiting further information 
from Mr B.
Our adjudicator thought that Fairmeads acknowledgement of the delays it had caused was 
reasonable. But he thought that £150 compensation would better reflect the trouble and 
upset caused to Mr and Mrs B, to which Fairmead agreed.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was thinking of 
increasing the compensation further and asking the parties to provide any further evidence 
or comments they may have. Fairmead didnt respond further. Mr and Mrs B made some 
additional points that I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Fairmead originally told us that it didnt receive the claim form until 27 March 2020, 
it has since clarified that it was received on 11 December 2019 and that 27 March 2020 was 
the date it was first allocated for assessment. It then didnt start to assess it until 11 May 
2020.
The claim form was incomplete as the sections that needed to be completed by Mr Bs 
employer and doctor hadnt been filled in. Fairmead therefore began trying to contact Mr B 
by phone but unfortunately he never answered his phone. It did send an email on 20 May 
2020 but a mistake was made with the email address. After sending the email, Fairmead 
doesnt seem to have made any more attempts to contact Mr B and the claim was closed on 
7 September 2020 due to non-response.
It was reasonable of Fairmead to try and contact Mr B by phone in the first instance and then 
to email him when that was unsuccessful. However, as already mentioned, Fairmead used 
an incorrect email address. And Fairmead accepts that it should have written to Mr B when 
he didnt respond to calls or emails. It also should have written to him to advise that it had 
closed the claim.
Fairmead says it did not receive a letter that Mr B sent in August 2020, although Mr B says 
he has evidence of it being delivered and signed for on 18 August 2020. He also sent 
Fairmead another letter in September 2020. Its a shame that Mr B didnt call Fairmead, 
which is the preferred method of contact to discuss claims. However, its reasonable for Mr 
and Mrs B to expect their letters to be responded to.
It was only in February 2021, when this service contacted Fairmead on Mr and Mrs Bs 
behalf, that it started to assess the claim again. It still needed the missing information from 
the claim form and so wrote to Mr B on 6 March 2021 setting out what was required. 
It was two months later, on 7 May 2021 that Mr B sent Fairmead some of the information. He 
then sent the information from his GP on 20 May 2021. So I do not hold Fairmead 
responsible for this part of the delay.
Although Fairmead hadnt received the GP evidence at that time, it made a decision to 
honour the claim on 25 May 2021. It paid out £650 and, based on the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that Fairmead assessed the claim correctly, in line with the policy terms.
Clearly there were a number of errors on the part of Fairmead that resulted in delay. I need 
to give consideration to what the outcome would have been if things had happened as they 
should have. So Ive thought about what would have been a reasonable timeframe for it to 
assess the claim, recognising the delays that were incurred waiting for Mr and Mrs B to 
provide fuller information and the impact that Covid played during some of this period. 
Taking everything into account, if it werent for Fairmeads errors, I consider that the 
complaint could have been reasonably settled by the end of July 2020.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B say the information submitted by them 
originally was complete as far as they were concerned. They might feel that the supporting 
information they provided was sufficient. But as already mentioned, the employer and GP 
sections of the claim form had not been completed. Im satisfied that Fairmead was entitled 
to wait for the forms to be completed correctly. Mr and Mrs B say their GP thought what was 
being asked for was unnecessary. However, with respect, it was not their GPs decision to 
make.
Mr and Mrs B additionally say that, if delays were due to Covid, then Fairmead should have 
put in place an easement to their rules. However, it would be unfair to hold Fairmead 
responsible for something that was outside of its control.
Part of Mr and Mrs Bs argument is that they had to keep paying the monthly premiums 
whilst the claim was being assessed, whereas they would have cancelled it after the claim 
had been paid if it wasnt for the delay. As it was, the policy came to an end in September 
2020 anyway on the event of Mr Bs 65th birthday. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im persuaded by what Mr and Mrs B are saying here. 
Because, having just made a claim, its unlikely they would have thought theyd be making 
another claim again straight away. So its likely they would have looked at the cost of the 
policy and not considered it to be value for money for those last couple of months. So Mr 
and Mrs B are worse off as a result of the delays.
Therefore I think that Fairmead should pay an additional amount to compensate Mr and Mrs 
B for the two premiums they paid for August and September 2020, being a total of £143.80.
Mr and Mrs B also asked to be refunded the cost that the GP charged them for the medical 
information and they have reiterated this request in their response to my provisional 
decision. However, the policy is clear about what information needs to be provided and 
states that any costs would have to be borne by the policyholder. Mr and Mrs B say that Fairmead have conceded that the medical certificate wasnt necessary. However, thats not 
the case. Fairmead was entitled to wait for the necessary information. But because of the 
delays that had occurred, it eventually took a pragmatic decision to pay the claim without the 
medical certificate, which was a fair and reasonable thing to do. Ive thought further about 
what Mr and Mrs B have said, however Im not persuaded that Fairmead should refund the 
GP charge.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to pay total compensation of £293.80, being made up of £143.80 refund of 
premiums and £150 for trouble and upset. It can deduct any amount already paid to Mr and 
Mrs B from this figure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman