DRN-2379609
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs X say Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
The policy covered Mrs X, in case she was off work sick or lost her job. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest.
I sent Mr and Mrs X and Cumberland a provisional decision on 10 November 2020, to 
explain why I didnt think the policy had been mis-sold, but did think Cumberland had to 
pay back some of its cost. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Xs mortgage application had a section for PPI, which only recommended it was 
something they thought about. It offered them a clear choice about whether theyd like to 
take or turn down a policy. Mr X declined cover, whereas Mrs X chose PPI. Both parties 
signed this section, as well as signing the application as a whole to confirm their choices. 
Mrs X also signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI where she chose what 
kind of cover she wanted, separately to applying for the mortgage itself. The PPIs cost was 
set out separately to the mortgages cost, too  it wasnt part and parcel of the lending  and 
Mrs X set up a direct debit specifically for the policy. The PPI was not a condition of the 
mortgage either. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs X were misled into buying PPI, 
nor any wider problems with Cumberlands sales process from the time. So I think that 
Cumberland made it clear Mr and Mrs X didnt have to take out PPI, and that they chose to 
take it for Mrs X.
Cumberland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs X, so it had to check that the policy was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, it looks like Mrs X was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and 
wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. Mrs X had only limited cover 
through work, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her for 
far longer. Indeed, it looks like without PPI Mrs X couldve been in serious trouble had she 
had a long-term illness or redundancy.
I understand that family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Xs names 
only, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Cumberland had advised them to rely on 
other people to pay it. I also understand Mrs X felt secure in her role, but redundancies can 
and do happen, even in jobs that feel secure  so it seems very reasonable that she chose 
to insure herself. Mr X said he could have taken more work, but there was absolutely no 
guarantee that hed be able to find so much work that he could close the gap left by Mrs X 
losing her income, so it made much more sense to take out appropriate insurance such as 
this. Ultimately, Mrs X was the main earner, and if Mr and Mrs X fell behind on their 
mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
I understand Mr and Mrs X are particularly concerned about whether their advisor was 
qualified. Im afraid this isnt relevant  the question here is not about the level of 
qualification, but about whether the advice given was right or not. Here, Ive found that the 
advice was suitable, as I explained above. In any case, Cumberland have confirmed that this 
particular advisor was indeed a qualified mortgage advisor.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs X now feel that Mr X should have been covered. But the 
reason he wasnt was because they chose for him not to be. And its perfectly legitimate for 
only one party to choose to be covered with this policy. Indeed, it makes sense here that 
they focused on cover for Mrs X, as she was the main earner.
The PPI application and quotation clearly set out the policys cost and benefit. So I think 
Mr and Mrs X wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for the PPI if they kept 
it past the free period. And it looks like the policy was affordable for them. Cumberland did 
not have to tell them about other businesses policies.
It is possible that Cumberland didnt sufficiently point out all the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But as I said above, Mrs X doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those 
things. So I dont consider that this wouldve made a difference.
This means Cumberland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs X.
But Cumberland has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs X 
because: 
Cumberland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs X about that. Because Cumberland didnt 
tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Cumberland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.What I think the business should do
Cumberland should pay back to Mr and Mrs X any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Cumberland should pay back to 
Mr and Mrs X the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got 
was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Cumberland should also pay Mr and Mrs X 8%* 
simple interest on each payment, to compensate them for the time they were out of pocket.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs X can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Other points
I understand Mr and Mrs X are unhappy about the way the policy was administered after the 
sale, such as its pricing and cancellation. While I dont wish to disappoint them, in this 
decision Im only considering the sale of the PPI, and Im afraid I dont consider the 
administrative issues in the years afterwards to be relevant to that. I have asked our 
adjudicator to get in touch with Mr and Mrs X to see if theyd like to pursue the administrative 
concerns as a separate complaint, and  if so  to help them set up a separate case and get 
things moving.
I also understand Mr and Mrs X are unhappy with the way Cumberland dealt with their 
complaint  specifically that they contacted Mr X. I cannot consider this, as I can only decide 
complaints about regulated activities  for example, the selling of insurance. But handling 
complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear about Mr and 
Mrs Xs unhappiness with the complaints process, I cant consider that point. Mr and Mrs X 
may be able to make a complaint about any alleged data breach to the Information 
Commissioners Office, or ICO for short. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
25 November 2020. Cumberland didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs X did reply, which 
Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs X explained that they only covered Mrs X as they were given the impression that 
Mr X couldnt be covered, since he was self-employed. Mr X was able to be covered, so Im 
not sure what mightve given them that impression. Looking at the documents from the time, 
I think it was made sufficiently clear that joint accountholders and self-employed people 
could still apply for the PPI. Indeed, self-employed people were specifically included in the 
eligibility criteria that was listed when Mr and Mrs X applied. I cant see any evidence that 
Cumberland misled Mr and Mrs X into thinking otherwise, and indeed I cant see why 
Cumberland would do so. According to the application, Mr X felt Mrs Xs income was 
sufficient to cover things if he was out of work  it didnt mention anywhere that he thought 
he was ineligible.
So I cant see that Cumberland did anything wrong in setting up the policy for Mrs X only. 
I think it was most likely made sufficiently clear who could apply, it was a perfectly legitimate 
way to set up the policy, Mrs X was the main earner, and its what Mr and Mrs X asked 
Cumberland to do on both their mortgage and PPI application forms.Mr and Mrs X also pointed out that Cumberland didnt tell them about the commission it 
would receive for the policy. Per my provisional decision, that is why Im telling Cumberland 
to refund some of the commission and profit share it got.
What the business needs to do
Cumberland should pay back to Mr and Mrs X any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Cumberland should pay back to 
Mr and Mrs X the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got 
was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Cumberland should also pay Mr and Mrs X 8%* 
simple interest on each payment, to compensate them for the time they were out of pocket.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs X can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs X.
Cumberland Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs X any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done so, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X and Mrs X to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman