DRN-3259000
The complaint
R, a partnership, complains Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company 
(Evalon) has charged it transaction fees unfairly. 
R is represented by one of its partners, Mr R.
What happened
R sells goods, including through its website. In 2020 its website was targeted by fraudsters 
and hundreds of thousands of transactions were attempted. This resulted in R being charged 
about £5,000 in transaction fees by Elavon, its merchant acquirer. Mr R didnt think this was 
fair, so he complained. 
Initially Elavon declined the complaint as it said it had charged the transaction fees in line 
with its contract with R. It later reviewed the matter and said, in summary:
- R had agreed to the contract, which set out what fees would be payable. And Elavon 
had charged the fees correctly;
- Rs website doesnt have additional security for anti-fraud checks and it should 
address that; and
- Given the impact of this matter on R, it would offer £2,500 as a goodwill gesture to 
settle the complaint.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and thought Elavon had treated R fairly. He was 
sympathetic with the position R found itself in but found Elavon was entitled to charge 
transaction fees and therefore its offer of £2,500 was a fair one. 
Mr R didnt agree. In his view the volume of transactions should have trigged a failsafe and 
argues Elavon charging R, for something which would have cost it hardly anything, means 
its benefiting financially from the fraudsters actions. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
R appears to have been the victim of card testing. In brief, this is where a fraudster 
acquires many card details. They then use a merchants website to test the card details by 
putting through - using a computer program  huge numbers of small transactions. From this 
they know which card details they can use for larger transactions, and which ones have 
been cancelled/blocked.
R signed a contract with Elavon for merchant acquiring services. In brief, Elavon will process 
card payments for R, and in return, R will pay Elavon certain fees. The most relevant fee in 
this case is the minimum transaction fee of 3p per transaction. Ordinarily this fee isnt 
problematic given its low value. But here, the fraudster attempted hundreds of thousands of 
transactions. At 3p a time, that added up, costing R about £5,000. 
Mr R argues its unfair for Elavon to charge R transaction fees in these circumstances. But 
Elavon isnt responsible for the actions of the fraudster. Nor it is responsible for the security 
on Rs website. Transaction fees arent pure profit for Elavon  it too will have incurred a cost 
for processing so many transactions. 
Ive also kept in mind the underlying contract here is between Elavon and R - a commercial 
enterprise. Whilst this is a complaint about Elavon, responsibility for matters such as website 
and system security rest primarily with R. Had appropriate security been in place, it seems 
more likely than not the impact of this card testing on R would have been greatly reduced. 
Elavons offer of £2,500 is roughly half Rs loss. Bearing in mind what Ive said above about 
Elavons responsibilities and entitlements alongside those of R, its not an offer I consider I 
should interfere with and I find it a fair and reasonable resolution in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company has already made an offer to pay 
£2,500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company should pay R 
£2,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman