DRN-3050737
The complaint
Miss D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) accepted liability for an
accident on her behalf without showing her the evidence. She is also unhappy that Admiral
automatically took an additional premium for her policy after it had renewed.
What happened
Miss D took out car insurance with Admiral. In December 2019 they were notified that Miss
Ds car had been involved in a collision with a bus in October 2019. They contacted her and
she said that she didnt know anything about it. She provided photographs of her car.
Dashcam footage provided by the third party was viewed and Admiral considered Miss D to
be at fault and settled the claim. They informed Miss D but did not send her a copy of the
footage.
Miss Ds insurance policy was due for renewal in November 2019. Admiral sent renewal
documents and the policy renewed automatically. However, at the time of renewal Admiral
was not aware of the accident and so the claim was not included in the renewal quote. In
late December 2019 they informed Miss D that an additional premium of £732.48 was
payable due to the claim. She was given the option to cancel. Miss D did not contact Admiral
and £732.48 was automatically debited from Miss Ds account.
Miss D complained to Admiral saying she was not happy that they had accepted liability for
the accident on her behalf without allowing her to see the dashcam footage. Admiral said
that they did not have permission from the third party to show her the footage and therefore
couldnt do so. They pointed out that the policy allows them to deal with the claim as they
see fit and they were satisfied that they correctly accepted liability. Miss D did not raise the
issue regarding the additional premium at this point.
Miss D was not happy with Admirals response and brought her complaint to us. She did not
think it fair that Admiral settled the claim as a fault claim whilst she was not allowed to see
the evidence against her. She also complained that Admiral had taken £732.48 from her
account. Our investigator looked into the matter and Admiral agreed that this service could
look at both parts of the complaint together.
Our investigator agreed with Admiral that they could not disclose the dashcam footage
without consent from the third party, which they did not have. He also agreed that Admiral
were entitled to deal with the claim as they saw fit. He viewed the dashcam footage himself
and he thought that they had investigated it fairly. In relation to the additional premium, our
investigator thought that the calculation was fair, but said that Admiral should not have taken
this from Miss Ds account without her permission. He thought that the sum should be
returned to her.
Admiral said that they had properly informed Miss D of the premium increase and given her
an opportunity to cancel the policy if she wished. They said they had no contact from her and
therefore the policy premium was properly taken. They asked for the matter to be considered
by an ombudsman.
Miss D did not accept the investigators view either. She did not think that Admiral had acted
fairly in relation to accepting liability for the accident and not disclosing the footage to her.
She also asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2021. I said:
There are two parts to Miss Ds complaint, and I will deal with them separately.
The accident
My starting point is to look at Miss Ds insurance policy and the terms and conditions
attached to it. I can see from Admirals policy booklet, that General Condition 2 allows
Admiral to accept liability on Miss Ds behalf and to take over and settle any claim as they
see fit. This is common in car insurance policies. Admiral relied on this to accept liability and
settle the claim. It is not my role to decide who was at fault for the accident. However, I can
look to see if Admiral settled the claim in a reasonable manner and in line with the available
evidence. This will include whether the dashcam footage should have been disclosed to
Miss D.
Miss Ds concern is that the case has been settled and liability accepted when she did not
believe she had been involved in an accident. She has said that if she were able to see the
dashcam footage she would accept what it showed. I understand Miss Ds position.
However, the third partys solicitors have refused to allow disclosure, and I cannot require
Admiral to disclose the footage to Miss D in these circumstances.
I would like to reassure Miss D, however, that I have viewed the footage which is date and
time stamped. The footage is taken from a camera on the front drivers side of the bus and
gives a rear view. I can see that it was raining and that there was slow moving traffic on both
sides of the road. The bus appears to be stationary when Miss Ds car pulls out slowly from
behind the bus in order to overtake. Miss Ds car passes very close to the bus and, although
it is difficult to be sure, there appears to be contact between the front passenger side of Miss
Ds car and the rear drivers side of the bus. Miss Ds car pulls alongside the bus and 
overtakes. It does not stop. Stills taken from another bus camera show the registration 
number of Miss Ds car as it passes in front of the bus. I am satisfied from the dashcam
footage and stills that Miss Ds car was involved in the accident.
Miss D has said that no one else drives her car. She has provided photos and I can see that
there is what appears to be a minor scrape to the front passenger side door. Miss D says
that this was there prior to the date of the accident. Although I cant say the damage was
caused by the accident, it is consistent with the circumstances. I have also seen the third
partys account of what happened and an engineers report. Admiral looked at these, along
with the dashcam footage, stills, and photos provided by Miss D, in order to determine
liability.
From what I have seen, I think Admiral have acted fairly when considering the question of
liability and I cannot say that their decision to accept liability was unreasonable.
Additional premium
Admiral have not specifically considered this issue as misrepresentation - that is where a
consumer provides inaccurate or incomplete information when taking out or renewing an
insurance policy. Misrepresentation may have allowed Admiral to avoid the policy altogetherand would have made it difficult and more costly for Miss D to obtain insurance in the future.
As Admiral have not dealt with this as misrepresentation, I have not done so either.
Admiral simply say that once they became aware of the accident and the claim, the original
premium needed to be adjusted. Had they known about the accident at renewal, the higher
premium would have been charged from the policy start date. I do not think this is an
unreasonable approach. Miss D was advised of this in her renewal letter where it said if a
claim arises before your renewal date, we may have to amend this renewal offer. She was
also advised to check the renewal documents to ensure all the information was correct.
Whilst I appreciate that Miss D says she was not aware of the accident, it should have been
declared before renewal. If it had been, Admiral would have calculated the original premium
differently. When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a large number of
risk rating factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and
the likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking at many different factors. An
accident or claim is one factor they will consider.
Admiral has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how
Miss Ds price increase was calculated. I can't share that information, but Ive checked it
carefully. Im satisfied that the premium was calculated according to Admirals rating policy
and that Admiral treated Miss D in the same way it would treat other policy holders in similar
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether Miss D was prejudiced by the late adjustment in her premium,
and I cant see that she was. If Admiral had known about the accident, Im satisfied that the
additional £732.48 would have been charged from the outset. Miss D was properly notified of
the additional premium and given the opportunity to cancel the policy if she wished. She
chose not to do so. In any event, if she had, she would still have needed insurance for her
car and would have had to take out insurance elsewhere, declaring the accident to any new
insurer.
Miss D is unhappy that the additional premium was taken automatically from her account.
Miss D does not dispute that she was sent an email on 30 December 2019 notifying her of
the additional premium. I can see from this email that she was also warned that if she did not
cancel, the premium would be taken from her account automatically on 13 January 2020.
Miss D set up her policy with Admiral allowing for automatic renewal. There is nothing wrong
with the automatic payment of renewals or additional premiums provided the insurer has
properly explained what is going to happen. I have looked at Miss Ds renewal notice and
can see that she was told that the renewal premium would be taken automatically. She was
also advised that any future additional premiums would be taken from her account in the
same way. This is confirmed in General Condition 5 in the policy booklet. She was also
clearly advised of this in the email of 30 December 2019. At present, I do not think that it was
unreasonable for Admiral to take the additional premium automatically and do not intend to 
require them to make repayment. Also, at present I do not think that Admiral have acted
unfairly when dealing with either part of Miss Ds complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I have not received a response to my provisional decision from either Admiral or Miss D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman