DRN-4235620
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline her claim for legal 
expenses insurance. Shes also unhappy with the service they gave in handling her claim.  
What happened
Mrs R had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) as part of 
her home insurance policy. She wanted to take legal action against her employer. She took 
advice about that from an adviser. Mrs R said the adviser provided poor advice and caused 
her to miss a time limit that meant her case against the employer was out of time.
Mrs R claimed on her LEI policy for the costs of taking legal action against the adviser for 
breach of contract. Amtrust declined her LEI claim. They considered it under the contracts 
section of the policy. But they said it fell within an exclusion for claims Relating to your 
business, venture for gain, profession or employment. 
Mrs R disagreed and complained. Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint, so she brought it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought, broadly, that the claim Mrs R wanted to 
make against the adviser related to the advice they gave under a contract for services; that 
advice was separate from her contract of employment; and the exclusion didnt apply. She 
said Amtrust should progress the LEI claim and pay Mrs R compensation of £200 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Since Amtrust didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mrs R has had with her employer. I can understand the 
issues shes had with her adviser and the concerns shes raised about her LEI claim will 
have added to an already stressful situation. 
We expect insurers to consider claims promptly and fairly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules. Ill consider Mrs Rs complaint 
against that background. The starting point is the LEI policy.
Subject to its terms, conditions and exclusions, the LEI policy gives Mrs R limited cover for 
legal costs in relation to certain events. They include pursuing contractual claims under 
section 2 which says:
2. Contract
What is insured:
Costs to pursue or defend a legal action following a breach of a contract you 
have for:
a) Buying or renting goods or services for your private use.

What is not insured
Claims
 
c) Relating to your business, venture for gain, profession or employment
Amtrust is setting out the types of contract disputes for which they offer cover. These terms 
are common in LEI policies, although wording may differ from one policy to another, and we 
dont generally consider them to be unfair. 
Amtrust accept Mrs Rs claim falls within section 2. I think thats right since she was getting 
guidance from the adviser, which she was entitled to as shed paid her subscription, in her 
personal capacity. But Amtrust rely on exclusion c) to decline the claim. 
Mrs R wants to pursue the adviser for the breach of contract/professional negligence in 
relation to the handling of her employment claim, subscription payments she made to the 
adviser and compensation for personal injury resulting from the service she received. So, the 
question is whether Mrs Rs claim against the adviser relates to her employment and, if so, 
whether its fair for Amtrust to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. 
Amtrust point out the exclusion doesnt say the claim has to be against the employer; if it did, 
the claim would be covered under the employment section of the policy and not under the 
contract section; and since Mrs Rs claim against the adviser would be for negligent advice 
about the limitation date for taking legal action against the employer, it must be a claim 
relating to Mrs Rs employment.
Its true to say the exclusion is widely drafted. It could be said that, but for the employment 
dispute, Mrs R would never have contacted the adviser for advice. And Amtrust may be right 
that on a strict interpretation the exclusion applies here. But I think its fair to set aside a strict 
interpretation of the exclusion in the individual circumstances of this complaint to come to an 
outcome thats fair and reasonable. 
Mrs Rs claims against her employer and adviser are separate. They arise out of two 
different contracts. Her claim against the employer would relate to her contract of 
employment. Her claim against the adviser would be based on her contract with them for 
advice. It so happens Mrs R was seeking advice about her employment. But she could have 
approached the adviser for help in relation to several legal issues. Its legal arm provides a 
wide range of advice according to their website. If shed been asking for support on 
something different, the exclusion wouldnt apply. I dont think its fair Mrs R should miss out 
on cover just because the advice was about employment issues and hadnt yet been passed 
over to the advisers legal team.
Amtrust say Mrs Rs claim against the employer would be considered under the employment 
section of the policy. I think the purpose of the exclusion was probably to avoid claims 
relating to disputes between employers and employees being dealt with under the contracts 
section. But even if Im wrong about that, its not fair to direct Mrs R to that part of the policy. 
Mrs R doesnt want to claim against her employer. From what shes explained, its too late 
for that. And I understand Amtrust has already considered and declined a claim under that section. 
Whilst Mrs R would be hoping to recover from the adviser what shes lost out on in any claim 
she might have successfully made against the employer, her claim against the adviser is 
wider than that. She is also seeking compensation for personal injury. 
Amtrust say Mrs Rs claim for personal injury would depend on her proving she has a valid 
claim for professional negligence which is not covered under the policy. I havent seen a 
specific exclusion for professional negligence claims in the policy if thats what Amtrust were 
suggesting. They may simply be referring to their point that Mrs Rs claim against the adviser 
falls within the exclusion. The basis and strength of a personal injury claim can only be 
determined by solicitors advising on the prospects of success. But it wouldnt be fair to rule 
that claim out by declining cover before it reaches that stage. 
I also note theres a separate section in the LEI policy for personal injury claims which 
covers Costs to pursue a legal action following an event resulting in your personal injury 
or death against the person or organisation directly responsible. Claims Arising from 
medical or clinical treatment, advice, assistance or care arent covered. But there arent any 
other relevant exclusions. Its possible Mrs R has a valid claim under that section depending 
on the allegations she is making against the adviser and whether they meet the policy 
definition. Amtrust would need to consider that. 
Bearing the above in mind, I think it would be fair for Amtrust to deal with the claim in line 
with the terms of the policy ignoring the exclusion for claims relating to Mrs Rs employment 
under the contracts section.
Mrs Rs explained she was unhappy not only with the policy decision but also the way in 
which her claim had been handled. Shes told us Amtrusts handling of her claim caused her 
to relive the experiences shed had that led her to want to pursue her employer in the first 
place. And shes said the mistakes she alleges against the adviser affected her too. So, I 
can understand the rejection of her claim will have added to her overall distress.
Amtrust explained their delay in dealing with her complaint was because she hadnt made a 
formal complaint. Shed asked for details of the complaint process which they gave her. I 
dont think thats unreasonable. But its fair to compensate her for the impact the rejection of 
the claim has had on her. I think the £200 compensation our investigator proposed is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Amtrust should now progress the claim and pay Mrs R the compensation on the basis Ill set 
out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to progress Mrs Rs claim, ignoring the exclusion under the 
contract section of the LEI policy for claims relating to her employment, and in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. In addition, I direct them to pay Mrs R £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman