DRN-2362229
The complaint
Mr R complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has declined his home insurance claim for 
accidental damage to his retaining wall. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr R discovered that badgers had made a sett under a retaining wall at 
the bottom of his garden so he made a claim under his home insurance policy. He sent 
Fairmead some information and photographs of the damage and it appointed a loss adjuster 
to visit, inspect the damage and validate the claim. As a result of the visit Mr R thought his 
claim had been accepted. 
The loss adjuster reported to Fairmead that the damage hadnt happened gradually so felt it 
met the policy definition of accidental damage. At the end of April 2020, the report was 
referred to underwriters to check if cover was in place. Underwriters stated that damage to 
walls was specifically excluded under the accidental damage to buildings peril that the claim 
had been brought under. In mid-May, Fairmead told Mr R that his claim had been declined 
due to the wall exclusion.
Mr R complained to Fairmead about its decision and about the time itd taken to progress his 
claim. Fairmead looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt change its mind about the claim. It 
accepted that the claim could have been progressed better so it apologised and paid Mr R 
compensation of £50. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Fairmeads investigation, Mr R complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. She didnt 
think that Fairmead had unreasonably declined Mr Rs claim by relying on one of the specific 
exclusions under the accidental damage to buildings peril. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the policy terms and conditions 
made it clear that walls were included within the policy definition of buildings and that as a 
specially defined word it was to have the same meaning throughout the whole of the policy 
document. 
The complaint was passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, accidental damage 
etc.  is covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is 
caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can 
rely one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion 
it is its responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim. 
I dont think its in dispute that Mr R was able to show that the damage caused by the 
badgers to his retaining had been caused accidentally and fell under the accidental damage 
to buildings peril in the policy. 
I accept too that he felt his claim had been accepted after the loss adjusters visit but the 
decision on liability rested with the insurer. Once the underwriter had considered the claim 
against the policy terms it decided that one of the specific exclusions could be applied in 
order to defeat it.
I can see that under the accidental damage to buildings cover there is a section that sets 
out what is specifically not covered under this particular peril. This includes: loss or damage 
to swimming pools, hot tubs, tennis courts, drives, patio, paved terraces, walls, fences, 
gates and fuel tanks [my emphasis]. So, I think its clear that accidental damage to walls 
(amongst other things) isnt covered by the policy. 
Mr R disagrees. He says words in bold type have specific definitions. He notes that 
buildings is specifically defined in the policy. The policy says: 
Throughout this policy there are special words shown in bold type. Wherever we use these
words in this policy they will always have the following meanings:
Buildings
Your home and its decoration, fixtures and fittings attached to your home, sanitary wear,
fixed glass including double glazing, permanently installed swimming pools, hot tubs, hard
tennis courts, drives, patios, paved terraces, paths, walls, fences, hedges and gates, fixed
domestic water installations, septic tanks, pipes, cables and fixed domestic central heating
oil tanks. [my emphasis].
I note Mr Rs point that the policy says wherever it uses the word buildings in the policy it to 
means what is set out above  and that includes walls. Mr R says that means his claim must 
be covered. But if I were to accept what Mr R says then it would render the specific 
exclusion meaningless and pointless. And the same would apply to various exclusions 
across the whole policy. What would be the point of including them if the definitions section 
overrides them? 
Its up to an insurer to decide what risk it is willing to take on and what price to charge for 
doing so. And all insurers will  both specifically (to certain perils) and generally (across the 
whole policy)  exclude certain types of damage from cover. Fairmead is providing cover for 
accidental damage to buildings (as defined) but it is excluding cover in certain situations. 
Unfortunately for Mr R  and despite the policy definition for buildings extending to include 
walls  the damage caused accidentally by the badgers isnt covered. If the damage had 
been caused by one of the other perils in the policy  say fire or flood  then theres no 
equivalent specific exclusion. But clearly Fairmead didnt want to cover accidental damage to 
walls, or swimming pools, or hot tubs etc. So, it included a specific exclusion alongside 
accidental damage to buildings peril so it didnt have to. And we say its fair for insurers to be 
able to apply such exclusions as long as they are clearly set out, which I think this one is. 
So, taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think that Fairmead treated Mr R 
unfairly or unreasonably in the way it applied the policy terms to his claim to decline it. 
Ive noted that Mr R was unhappy about the progression of his claim but I can see that 
Fairmead has accepted that things couldve moved quicker, has apologised and has paid 
compensation of £50 to Mr R. Thats in line with awards made by this service in similar complaints. So, I think that Fairmead dealt with this aspect of Mr Rs complaint fairly and I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. Indeed, if Mr Rs complaint had crossed my desk 
without an award of compensation having been made its unlikely Id have awarded any 
more
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman