DRN-3253445
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim she made 
against her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2019 for unemployment.
Mrs S will notice that the name of the business has changed. This is because we had some 
difficulty identifying the correct underwriter for her policy and it was originally set up against 
the wrong insurer. The administrator of the policy has stayed the same and in practice it was 
the policy administrator who dealt with the claim and with the complaint.
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision in September 2021 in which I explained why I was considering 
upholding the complaint and in which I set out the following background information:
In 2010 Mrs S had entered into a debt management plan and was sold PPI at the same time 
that covered her monthly payments against accident, sickness or unemployment. Each 
month Mrs S paid a single amount of £124 to the debt management company (DMC) that 
included £13.78 for the insurance premium. The policy provided a monthly benefit amount of 
£124 to cover the payments to the DMC plus an additional £100 for essential expenditure.
In July 2019 Mrs S contacted Great Lakes to make a claim for unemployment. Mrs Ss claim 
was accepted by Great Lakes in August 2019. However, in September 2019 it told Mrs S 
that it was now declining the claim on the basis that she had not paid the premiums since 
April 2019 and that a condition of the policy was that a policyholder must continue to pay 
premiums during a claim.
When Mrs S complained to Great Lakes, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
However, it did apologise for delay and offered Mrs S £50 for any distress caused as a 
result.
Our investigator thought that Great Lakes had correctly declined the claim. However, he 
thought that it hadnt managed Mrs Ss expectations well and so recommended that the 
compensation be increased to £100, to which Great Lakes agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to premium payments, the policy document states that:
 You must continue paying your premiums when you are claiming benefit,
otherwise you will not be entitled to receive the benefit.
Mrs S had made her April 2019 payment to the DMC as normal. She was then made 
redundant with her last day of work being 6 May 2019. I can see from the evidence that has 
been provided that Mrs S immediately ran into financial trouble with no disposable income to 
live on. Consequently she was unable to continue her payments to the DMC and missed the 
payments from May 2019 onwards, having informed the DMC of her situation.
In June 2019 the DMC advised Mrs S that she could make a claim on the PPI policy and she 
contacted Great Lakes on 11 July 2019 to do so. Mrs S was able to provide the necessary 
information required to support the claim quite quickly and her former employer completed 
their section of the claim form and returned it on 31 July 2019.
Great Lakes didnt hold details of the policy itself or have information about the premiums. It 
therefore contacted the DMC on 8 August 2019 to ask for details of the monthly benefit 
amount. The DMC responded on 16 August 2019 to confirm that it was £224. 
Great Lakes then told Mrs S on 20 August 2019 that her claim had been accepted. Mrs S 
says that, on the basis of her claim having been accepted and being given an indication of 
the total amount she would receive (knowing the end date of the claim because she had 
started a new job on 12 August 2019) she borrowed money from family on the 
understanding she would be able to pay them back in full once she received the claim 
payout.
On 12 September 2019 Great Lakes contacted the DMC asking it to confirm if Mrs S had 
been paying the premiums since May 2019 and when the last payment was taken. I cant 
see that the DMC responded to this request. Instead, it was Mrs S herself that provided the 
information, having chased the DMC for it. Great Lakes then told Mrs S that it was declining 
her claim, citing the clause in the policy about having to continue to pay premiums when 
claiming benefit.
Mrs S says this is the first she had heard of this requirement. She says that when she told 
the DMC that she was struggling and could not make her usual payment, she was told that 
that is what insurance is for. She says that, if the DMC or Great Lakes had told her of the 
need to maintain payments, she would have ensured she complied.
Mrs S had never paid the PPI premiums directly to Great Lakes. She made a single monthly 
payment to the DMC who in turn paid the premium to Great Lakes. It was not made clear to 
Mrs S that ceasing the monthly payment to the DMC would jeopardise her insurance cover. 
Mrs S has made a separate complaint about the DMC in relation to this issue.
Great Lakes has accepted that there was a delay in asking the DMC for the policy details. 
Setting aside details of the premium payments for the moment, it seems to me that Great 
Lakes should have had all the information it needed by the end of July or beginning of 
August 2019 to start paying the claim. Clearly, the main benefit amount of £124 included an 
amount to pay for the premium. So had Mrs Ss claim started to be paid in August 2019, the 
monthly premiums would have been covered from that point onwards. The sticking point is 
that premiums were not paid in May, June or July 2019.
Mrs S wasnt in a position to carry on paying the premiums. She had never herself paid for 
the premiums directly. The premiums formed part of a larger single amount that she paid to 
the DMC each month, who in turn passed on the relevant amount to Great Lakes. Mrs S was 
not informed of an option to carry on paying only the premiums or the process by which she 
might go about doing that. And due to her dire financial situation, she was unable to continue 
with the arrangement to pay £124 per month to the DMC that would have ensured that her 
insurance premiums were maintained.I accept that, in other circumstances, a policyholder might be able to continue paying their 
premiums whilst their claim is assessed. And I also acknowledge that, as Mrs S didnt 
contact Great Lakes until July 2019, it was not in a position to inform her at the point that she 
lost her job that she would need to keep the premiums up to date.
However, the purpose of the PPI policy is to provide a policyholder with cover against 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Mrs S has acted reasonably throughout and, having 
paid her premiums for many years, it wouldnt be fair for her claim to fail simply because she 
was not in a position to pay the premiums once the insured event occurred. 
Great Lakes said it disagreed with my provisional decision to uphold the complaint. It said 
that Mrs S jeopardized its position because at no point did she inform it that she was unable 
to continue paying the premiums. It said it could only make decisions based on information 
received at first notification of the loss and that, in assessing the claim against the policy 
terms, it was correctly repudiated because premiums had to be maintained.
I appreciate that the policy states that premiums have to be maintained during a claim 
period. I also appreciate that Great Lakes initially didnt fully understand why Mrs S had 
failed to maintain the premiums. However, once Great Lakes did become aware of the 
reasons, as set out in Mrs S complaint, it should have taken those reasons into account. In 
the very particular circumstances of this case, I would expect Great Lakes to look behind the 
reasons for the premiums not being paid from May 2019 onwards, in the interests of treating 
Mrs S fairly.
I have thought very carefully about what Great Lakes has said but it has not caused me to 
change the conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Putting things right
The assessment of Mrs Ss claim should not be hindered by the unpaid premiums. My 
understanding is that Great Lakes had fully accepted the claim aside from this issue. 
Therefore it should now pay the claim under the remaining policy terms, disregarding the 
need for premiums to be paid during the claim period. However, it can deduct the amount of 
unpaid premiums from the claim payment.
In addition, Great Lakes should also pay the £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience that it previously agreed to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman