DRN-3807108
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down his 
business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in October 2020, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
Mr R held a business insurance policy with RSA. He contacted RSA to make a claim for
losses incurred after he was impacted as a result of the Governments response to the
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr R made three separate claims, one for a period of lockdown from 23
March 2020 and one for the period from November 2020 to December 2020 and then from
January 2021 onwards.
This decision deals only with the complaint about the second and third claims. I have
addressed the complaint about the first claim in a separate decision.
RSA said that when the policy renewed in May 2020, it contained a specific exclusion for
anything related to Covid-19. RSA said the claims arising after that date were therefore not
covered.
Mr R is not happy with this. He says it is not fair for a business to change a policy like this
while there was still a lockdown. Mr R says his business has suffered and he had to close
his shop and make staff redundant. The whole process has been extremely stressful. He
wants his claim paid and compensation for the time and stress involved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Rs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy renewed at the end of May 2020. At that time RSA added the following
amendment to the policy:
The following exclusion applies to all sections of Your Policy other than Liabilities
Insurance.
Virus, Disease and Pandemic Exclusion
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within Your Policy, Your Policy does
not cover loss, destruction or damage, or any costs or expenses of whatsoever
nature directly or indirectly occasioned by, arising from, caused by, happening
through or in consequence of, or otherwise attributable to
1. Coronaviruses
2. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
3. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)
4. Any mutation of or variation of 1), 2) or 3) above
5. any infectious disease that is designated or treated as a pandemic by the World
Health Organisation
6. Any fear or anticipation of 1), 2), 3), 4) or 5) above.
The wording is clear and unambiguous. I can see why this was disappointing for Mr R but
insurers are entitled to decide what cover they want to provide and are allowed to make
changes to policies. The exclusion means the second and third claims are not covered, as
there is no cover for any Covid-19 related loss under this policy.
I said I did not intend to uphold the complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
RSA has not added anything further. 
Mr R has responded and confirmed he does not accept my provisional findings. He says my 
provisional decision is not fair or reasonable and I am placing too high a burden on him as a 
customer and too little responsibility on RSA to treat customers fairly. Mr R has also made 
some further points, which Ive summarised below:
The Financial Conduct Authority High Level Standards Principles for Businesses say 
businesses should provide information to customers that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. Given that the pandemic was a live event in May 2020, he was not given 
sufficient notice of the intention to remove cover for coronaviruses from his policy 
and the change to his policy was not given sufficient prominence. 
 RSA should have contacted him by phone to tell him of the proposed change to his 
policy and how it would affect him. The fact it didnt means the policy should remain 
as before. 
 In any case, the policy in force between May 2019 and May 2020 doesnt limit the 
period for which he is covered. If an insured event happens during the period of 
insurance the insurer is still responsible for the effects of that event after the policy 
has ended. 
The first lockdown happened in March 2020, when he had cover that did not exclude 
Covid-19 and it was reasonable for him to expect to be covered under the same 
terms until the lockdowns for Covid-19 passed. The policy terms should not have 
been changed during the lockdowns. 
 There is also a causal link between the lockdowns, which means it would be fair and 
reasonable for cover to remain on the same terms as before the first lockdown.
 It is also unfair that because his policy renewed in May 2020, that he was not 
covered for later lockdowns. The renewal date is random and changing terms at 
renewal should not cancel out cover. 
Mr R has also provided a copy of the Hansard Societys Coronavirus Statutory Instruments 
Dashboard as further evidence in his complaint.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the information provided on the Hansard Society website. It is an analysis of the 
Statutory Instruments laid down by Parliament in response to the pandemic, including the 
parliamentary scrutiny of them before they were laid down and the errors and amendments 
that were made to some of them. Mr R has not stated how he thinks this impacts his claim or 
complaint. I do not consider that anything in this analysis affects the outcome of Mr Rs claim 
or complaint, which turns on the terms of his individual policy. 
I can understand why Mr R finds the position he is in unfair, as he has suffered financial 
losses through no fault of his own. However, that does not mean that RSA is responsible for 
those losses. Insurance policies do not cover everything that might possibly happen to a 
business. And, as stated in my provisional decision, insurers are entitled to decide what 
cover they are prepared to provide. Likewise, customers have a choice about which policy 
and which insurer they wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all (unless its a 
requirement, legal or otherwise).
As Mr Rs policy was an annual one, the contract he entered into in May 2019 came to an 
end in May 2020. That policy was then no longer in force and the terms no longer applied. I 
can see that some customers may have been fortunate, in that their polices may have fallen 
to renew later than this and so they may well have benefited from the previous terms for 
longer, but that does not mean RSA is not entitled to write its business how it decides. 
RSA did decide to change its terms and decided to exclude all claims relating to coronavirus. 
It sent a Notice to Policyholders which set out the policy wording amendment clearly and 
prominently. I think the notice is sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading to have alerted Mr 
R to the change. I do not agree that it would need to phone each policyholder to inform them 
verbally of such a change. 
Mr R also suggests that the terms in the May 2019  May 2020 policy should stand until the 
risks to the businesses like his caused by the pandemic had passed. I do not agree that this 
is a reasonable expectation. If a policyholder has a live claim at renewal, then indemnity may 
continue beyond the end date of the policy that was in force when the claim arose but that is 
not the case here. 
Mr Rs policy ended in May 2020 and was no longer in force. As stated Mr R had the option 
then to take the new policy with RSA, or take alternative cover elsewhere or no cover at all. 
From May 2020 the new policy terms, which exclude anything arising from coronavirus, were 
then in force. His claims made after this are therefore not covered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman