DRN-1635664
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
March 2004. Mrs L, who is represented by a third party, says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-
sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said the optional nature of the policy wasnt made clear  and she didnt know it 
had been added to her account. HSBC has said it would have required Mrs Ls consent 
before PPI could be added to her account. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into 
account all the evidence that is available.
Mrs L told us she cant remember how she bought the policy but she doesnt think HSBC 
made a recommendation that she should buy the PPI.  HSBC has provided me with a copy 
of Mrs Ls postal application. That means there most likely wasnt a recommendation about 
taking out the policy. But HSBC still had to give Mrs L enough clear information so she could 
make an informed choice as to whether she wanted the cover. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form Mrs L filled out. On the form, she had to 
sign separately to show she wanted to buy PPI, in addition to signing the form to show she 
wanted the card. Given that Mrs L made the decision to take the cover when she was filling 
out the form in her own time, I think she made the decision to buy the cover and have it 
added to her new credit card account. I also think it was also clear enough from the form that 
if she did nothing about it, the policy wouldnt be added.  
Ive seen that Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Its 
possible the information HSBC gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Mrs L has told us she was she was self-employed when she took out the PPI so she 
wouldnt have been able to benefit from the policy. However, the policy terms from that time 
wouldnt have made it any more difficult for Mrs L to make a successful claim as a self-
employed person than if she had been employed.Mrs L has also told us she didnt need the PPI as her husband would have taken over her 
role if she was sick. Whilst the offer of family help is always a good thing to have, personal 
and work circumstances can change very easily, so I dont think this is something that can 
be relied on as always being available.
So all in all I think Mrs L would have found the policy useful. 
All of this this means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So HSBC doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs L paid for it. 
But HSBC Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already been paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman