DRN-2855853
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is regarding correspondence about a mortgage he and his ex-wife hold with 
Santander UK Plc. In 2019 he started receiving correspondence about the mortgage after a 
gap of many years. It was addressed jointly to him and his ex-wife, which upset him and his 
fiance, who he lives with. He would like correspondence about the mortgage sent to him in 
his sole name, rather addressed jointly, but Santander has refused to do so. 
What happened
Mr P took out a joint mortgage with his, now, ex-wife. They divorced in 2002 and as part of 
the divorce settlement the property remained with Mr Ps ex-wife, who was to endeavour to 
remove him from the mortgage. Unfortunately, she was unable to do so. 
In 2008 Mr P asked that all correspondence about the mortgage be sent to the mortgaged 
property. He told Santander he didnt want any correspondence about it sent to his then 
current address.  Mr P has confirmed he received no further correspondence about the 
mortgage for more than ten years. 
In 2018 Mr P changed the address for his bank account and this was updated on 
Santanders central database. It wasnt updated on the mortgage account at that time, which 
Santander considers was an error. However, in the autumn of 2019 Mr P received a letter at 
his new home, addressed to him and his ex-wife. He has told us that his fiance was very 
unhappy about this and it caused both of them stress. Mr P complained and said he wanted 
any future correspondence about the joint mortgage addressed to just him to stop his 
fiance being upset. 
Santander said it couldnt do that and Mr P complained. Santander responded by upholding 
the complaint in part. It said the address on the mortgage account should have updated in 
2018 when Mr P most recently told Santander of a change of address. For this error, it paid 
Mr P the sum of £100. However, it said it had rightly addressed the correspondence to both 
of the accountholders.  
Mr P went back to Santander as he wasnt satisfied, and it provided a further response. It 
said that as the mortgage was in joint names, and both accountholders remain liable for it, 
correspondence is sent to them jointly. It confirmed that it had updated its systems and the 
mortgage would thereafter show on Mr Ps internet banking account and that it had changed 
the address for correspondence about the mortgage to a new address as requested.
Mr P was still dissatisfied with Santanders response and referred the complaint to this 
service. When doing so he explained that the address he was now having correspondence 
about the mortgage addressed to, was his sons address, which was some distance away 
and so not convenient. 
When we informed Santander that the complaint had been referred to us, it said that it 
believed the complaint had been made too late. This was because Mr P had been aware 
since 2003 that, despite correspondence being sent to different addresses, it remained 
addressed to both him and his ex-wife. As such, he should have raised his complaint earlier 
than he did.
One of our investigators considered Santanders objection and agreed that Mr P would have 
known that, following the divorce, correspondence had continued to be addressed to both 
him and his ex-wife. As such, he wasnt persuaded generic concerns about the formatting of 
the correspondence could be considered by this service because the complaint had been 
made too late. However, the investigator thought Mr Ps complaint about his request in 2019, 
and how Santander had dealt with it, had been made in time and we could consider that 
issue.
Santander accepted the investigators conclusions about our jurisdiction. Mr P didnt 
comment further or object to our conclusions and so was deemed to have accepted them.
The investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint about Santander refusing, in 
2019, to address correspondence in his sole name. He upheld the complaint as he didnt 
think it was reasonable that a letter was addressed to a person who didnt live in the property 
it was sent to. He recommended Santander made changes so that, whilst correspondence 
would still reference the other mortgagor in the body of the letter, the address pane only 
detailed Mr P. In addition, in recognition of the upset the matter had caused Mr P, Santander 
should pay him £100 compensation.
Santander didnt accept the investigators opinion. It said that his conclusions would involve 
it changing its correspondence system, which is not something this service had jurisdiction to 
do. It put forward that the best solution was for Mr P and his ex-wife to change the mortgage 
so that Mr P was no longer a mortgagor. As long as it remained in joint names, 
correspondence would be sent to them as joint parties responsible for the mortgage 
contract.
Our investigator considered what Santander had said, but it didnt change his mind. As such, 
Santander asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for decision. 
I had some further enquiries made about the changes to the mortgage account. Santander 
explained that when Mr P changed his address in November 2018, it changed the central 
database. This should have updated all of his accounts with the correct address. It appears it 
didnt do so, but rather left the mortgage account with the address hed asked 
correspondence to go to. 
However, when payments began to be missed in 2019, the correspondence about that issue 
was sent from a different department and it used the central database address. Hence Mr P 
began getting letters about the arrears situation at his then current address. Subsequently, 
during the course of the complaint, the mortgage account correspondence address itself was 
updated when Mr P provided a new address for correspondence to be sent to.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 May 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt from that decision. 
As part of my review of this complaint, I have considered our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. As both parties accepted 
those conclusions I wont comment further, other than to confirm that I will restrict my 
consideration to the complaint revolving around the 2019 correspondence and Mr Ps 
request for it to be addressed just him. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I would say that it is not unreasonable for Santander to contact Mr P about the 
mortgage, as he is still a joint accountholder and liable for the debt. Mr P doesnt seem to object to receiving correspondence generically, but rather he doesnt like it being addressed 
to him and his ex-wife. 
I can understand that, after not having received any letters about the mortgage in many 
years, receiving something out of the blue, which was about arrears would have been a 
surprise and possibly a shock. I can also see that the letter being addressed to him and his 
ex-wife, might have upset Mr Ps fiance initially. 
However, I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it sent those letters. In the 
situation where there are joint accountholders, both need to be kept informed. In addition, its 
not unreasonable for correspondence to be addressed jointly. Both parties have a right to 
see all of the correspondence associated with the account and addressing everything to both 
parties ensures they have that right. 
Whilst Mr P clearly wants the correspondence addressed differently, in the situation where 
Santander is doing nothing wrong, I cant make Santander change its systems to facilitate 
that request. I know this will disappoint Mr P, but I am unable to find that Santander did 
anything wrong or that it needs to change how it is addressing the correspondence for the 
mortgage account.
Santander accepted my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Mr P didnt accept it and said he was very disappointed that the investigators conclusions 
had been reversed. He considered it would be a simple change for Santander to do and 
feels the outcome of his complaint would fall to be described as once again the customer is 
unable to fight the Big Companies... 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps disappointment in my decision, but I can assure him that it is not a case 
of a big company winning because it is a big company. I can only uphold a complaint if a 
financial business has done something wrong. Whilst Santanders administrative processes 
might not suit Mr P at the present time, it hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
2 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman