DRN-2863370
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 28 January 2020, Mrs O took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs O policy covered her between 28 
January 2020 and 27 January 2021. On 10 March 2020, Mrs O added an optional Travel 
Disruption Extension (TDE) to her policy. In total, the policy cost Mrs O £101.99, which 
included a discount of £27.12. The premium included cover for Mrs Os medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs O got in touch with the broker in June 2020 to ask 
whether she could cancel it and get a cash refund.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs O a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered her the following options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This would be a 12 month 
policy at current market rates. A policyholder can choose to start the policy at any 
time within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with a potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Mrs O wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
told us that when she took out the policy, she was specifically told that shed be entitled to a 
cash refund.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 28 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs O a credit voucher, which took into account the unused 
cover remaining on the policy, including a pro-rata refund for the TDE. She didnt think the 
terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay 
Mrs S a cash refund of her premium.
Mrs O disagreed. She wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and felt that a cash refund would 
be a fair outcome.
We subsequently asked Great Lakes to recalculate Mrs Os offer by using the actual price 
shed paid for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the days 
that werent used. Great Lakes agreed to recalculate the settlement due to Mrs O.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O, I think Great Lakes offer is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs Os cooling-off period ended on 11 February 2020. But the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 22 June 2020. So the cancellation was significantly outside of 
the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use 
its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mrs Os contract with Great Lakes entitle her 
to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer of a credit voucher for 
the unused portion of her policy is fair and reasonable. And given the policy wasnt 
cancelled until 22 June 2020, I think its fair that the date of the cancellation of the 
policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
 Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 366-day period and 324 
days for the TDE if the policy hadnt been cancelled. Thats based on Mrs O taking 
out the core policy on 28 January 2020 and adding the TDE on 10 March 2020. The 
voucher represents the remaining, unused 220 days of cover for the whole policy, 
after it was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs O 
making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk, in 
line with the time on risk for core policy and the TDE. Im satisfied that this now leads 
to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because Mrs O hasnt indicated that she has no future plans to 
travel, or that she wont use the voucher. She simply thinks a cash refund would be 
more appropriate. So I think its likely she will be able to put the voucher towards 
another policy in the future. This means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are 
overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mrs O will be disappointed in my decision, Im 
not telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums and Im satisfied its current 
offer is fair. Id also explain that while Mrs O feels she was misled about how refunds would 
be paid when the policy was sold, this would be the responsibility of her broker. Thats 
because Great Lakes didnt sell the policy. So Mrs O would need to make a separate 
complaint about the sale of the policy to the broker if shed like this issue to be investigated.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the pro-rata credit voucher refund due to Mrs 
O by dividing the actual price she paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) 
multiplied by days not on risk. This must be calculated in line with the core policy beginning 
on 28 January 2020 and the TDE being added on 10 March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman