DRN-1073871
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about the service provided by D&G Insurance PLC (D&G) when he claimed 
about a fault with his washing machine under his appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had an insurance policy with D&G which provides for the repair of the machine if it is 
not working and replacement of it if it cant be fixed within 28 days. It also offers a daily 
payment capped at £20 per week in the event of a delay in repairing the machine of more 
than a few days  3 days in the event of a disabled person living at the property.
Mr P reported a fault with the machine on 24 June 2019 and D&G arranged for the 
manufacturers engineer to attend the following day, which they did but much later than the 
indicated time slot. 
Mr P rang D&G that evening to complain about the engineer being late and also that the 
machine had not been fully repaired as whilst working, washes were taking longer than they 
should. Mr P pointed out the machine was needed daily due to a childs disability. 
D&G upheld Mr Ps complaint about the late appointment and offered £10 in compensation 
even though appointment times were not guaranteed under the policy.
D&G advised it would need a further engineers report to confirm the problem with the 
machine and Mr P was unhappy about this. The next day D&G contacted Mr P and put him 
in touch with the manufacturer to arrange another visit. An appointment was made for 2 July. 
But this was cancelled with some confusion on the booking system as to why, and no other 
appointment was available before the 11 July. 
Mr P contacted D&G to complain about this delay.
D&G checked and found that an earlier appointment (before 11 July) was available. 
However, D&G decided as a gesture of goodwill and to avoid further delay and 
inconvenience that they would replace the machine and pay Mr P a further £25 
compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr P accepted and the new machine was delivered to him the following day.
On the 11 July D&G reviewed their decision and paid Mr P a further £20 in compensation.
Mr P was not happy with the service D&G provided and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr P disagrees with this 
and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
D&G arranged for a repair to the machine the day after it was reported and following this 
repair it was usable even though Mr P felt it was not working as it should. D&G arranged for 
Mr P to speak the manufacturer the next day and another engineer visit was arranged for the 
2 July  four working days later. 
When this appointment failed and was rescheduled (presumably by the manufacturer) to the 
11 July, Mr P contacted D&G to complain about this. D&G agreed to replace the machine as 
a goodwill gesture and did so the next day.
So, once it was aware of the additional delay, D&G resolved the matter the next day and 
only 10 days in total after the fault was first reported. This was well inside the 28 day time 
period set out in the policy.
The machine has been replaced and a total compensation payment of £55 has been paid for 
Mr Ps inconvenience even though the machine was usable for virtually all of the 10 day 
period.
So, in my view D&G has acted fairly in its handling of Mr Ps claim. It has replaced the 
machine before there was proof that it wasnt working properly, or that it couldnt be repaired 
if it was faulty. Consequently, I think D&G has treated Mr P fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before the
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman