DRN-3554062
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to properly safeguard his mothers, who Ill 
refer to as Mrs B, monies which were held in a trust account. Mr and Mrs B were both 
trustees of the account. Mr B says that she was coerced into transferring funds to another 
account to which other people had access. 
What happened
Prior to the transfer around £130,000 was held in the trust account. Mrs B attended a 
Santander branch with another individual, and the funds were transferred from the trust 
account and into a current account in Mrs Bs sole name. Santander told us that it 
subsequently put a block on Mrs Bs account. 
Mr B says that Mrs B lacks capacity, due to dementia, and was coerced to transfer the 
funds. He says the motivation behind this was so that other individuals, who had access to 
the current account could access the funds. 
Santander says that it recognised Mrs Bs vulnerability and took reasonable steps. It spoke 
to her alone  without the individual who attended the branch with her  to ensure she 
wanted to go ahead with the transfer. And, subsequently, ensured that a block was placed 
on her current account so that the funds would be protected until the background dispute, as 
to who should be in charge of Mrs Bs affairs, was resolved. 
However, Mr B maintains that Santander failed to recognise Mrs Bs vulnerability and put 
proper steps in place to ensure that she was safeguarded. 
Background to the complaint 
Mr B raised a complaint against Santander. Unhappy with its response Mr B referred this 
complaint to this service. Both Mr B and Mrs B have signed our complaint form. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and made a number of further submissions. Briefly, he said: 
We didnt obtain the right information from Santander.
The initial report from the branch has been doctored, Mr Bs phone call on the day 
with Santander evidences this, the CCTV from the branch would prove who 
authorised the transaction and how. A signature would have been required to move 
that amount of money. 
Santander should have acted to safeguard Mrs Bs funds, they were safe where they 
were, he had access to the funds but had never withdrawn them. 
Santander has failed to take responsibility for its actions on the day. 
Numerous false allegations have been made against him. 
Hes not asking us to decide who takes control of Mrs Bs finances, just that this was 
an unauthorised transaction made under coercion.
This is a case of domestic abuse. Santander failed to follow the March 2018 banking 
protocol.
Funds were transferred so that other parties involved could gain access to the funds, 
which they did. Santander did put a stop to it, but the situation would not and should 
not have arisen if it had undertaken proper due diligence. 
The other parties had access to Mrs Bs current account and the police wouldnt do 
anything because no funds had been withdrawn but the other parties have since 
withdrawn funds from the account. 
Mr B also submitted some case law in support of his position. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was escalated to me for review. I 
sent Mr B and Santander my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint 
should be upheld. I said that I would consider anything that either party wanted to add. Mr B 
disagreed with my findings and made further submissions. Ive carefully considered all of his 
submissions in their entirety, here Ive included a summary of what I consider to be the key 
points. Briefly, he said: 
In the provisional decision it was said that where the funds from the trust account 
should be held, and who is entitled to decide how these funds should be allocated, is 
linked to the background dispute, but the judge has said that the issue of who 
removed the funds from the trust account and who was entitled to do so was a matter 
between Mr B and Santander. 
The judge made no specific direction in respect of the monies that are the subject of 
this complaint. 
Mrs B was in no fit state to make the transaction on her behalf or on behalf of the 
beneficiary, so the question remains, how was this allowed to go ahead?
If Santander had any concerns, it should have blocked the trust account until it could 
investigate these. 
The individual who attended the branch with Mrs B, has transferred funds out of 
accounts held with other banks in a similar manner. 
Funds were transferred into the trust account to protect them, this is clearly the case 
as the additional funds had been in the account for months. It is clear from what has 
happened that the funds were removed from the trust account not to protect them but 
instead for the individual involved to gain access to the funds and move them into his 
sole name  as it now stands if Mrs B passes away, she and Mr Bs daughter will 
legally own nothing. 
If Santander had acted properly and not transferred funds out of the trust account, 
none of this would have been possible and the funds would be safe. 
He doesnt understand why we wouldnt obtain more evidence as to what happened 
on the day of the transaction that is the subject of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision; Ive largely repeated these below, 
but I have added to my findings in some places to respond to the submissions made in 
response to my provisional decision. 
As I highlighted in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided 
detailed submissions to support their position and Im grateful to them for taking the time to 
do so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not 
take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its clear that this is a frustrating and emotive situation. I understand that Mr B feels like he is 
being passed around by different organisations and I can sympathise with his position. I note 
Mr B accepts that it isnt for us to consider who should be in charge of Mrs Bs finances. As I 
understand it, this is the subject of ongoing dispute. Mr B has provided us with some new 
information about developments in that dispute, I havent commented on this as this doesnt 
fall within our jurisdiction. 
The police have been involved in investigating allegations relating to Mrs B  about her 
treatment by Mr B and the individuals Mr B says are trying to wrongfully obtain access to 
Mrs Bs money. Based on the information Ive seen to date, the police havent found any 
criminal wrongdoing on the part of any party. They appear, at this stage, to consider this to 
be a family dispute. 
It isnt clear that Mrs B has capacity to bring this complaint alongside Mr B. Indeed, the fact 
that she has dementia and doesnt have capacity is an integral part of this complaint. But, in 
any case, I think Mr B can bring this complaint  insofar as it relates to the transfer out of 
funds from the trust account  as trustee of the account from which the funds were 
transferred. As I understand it, either Mr B or Mrs B independently could make instructions in 
relation to the account that is the subject of this complaint. 
We can look into whether or not Santander acted fairly and reasonably in how it handled the 
transfer of funds from the trust account to Mrs Bs current account, but not the background 
dispute or anything relating to who should be in charge of Mrs Bs finances. As above, Mr B 
appears to accept this. We also cannot comment on what has happened to the funds since 
they were transferred into Mrs Bs current account. 
Ive not seen enough to conclude that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably in 
transferring the funds from the trust account to Mrs Bs current account. Once the funds 
were transferred a block was placed on Mrs Bs account to protect the funds until someone 
is appointed to take over Mrs Bs affairs. So, the funds were in a current account in Mrs Bs 
sole name and protected by a block in place until the background dispute, in so far as it 
relates to that account, was resolved  at which stage access to the account and the funds 
could be decided appropriately. 
Mr B has told us that the funds transferred to Mrs Bs current account have since been 
moved away and that she has been left without access to them. I cant comment on what 
has happened since the funds were transferred out of the trust account, that doesnt fall 
within the scope of what I can consider in this complaint. As Ive explained, what I can 
consider in this instance is very limited. Specifically, I can only consider  under the 
circumstances of this particular complaint  whether or not Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably in allowing the transfer of funds from the trust account. And Im not persuaded, 
on the evidence, that it didnt act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B feels that we should obtain further evidence. I understand his frustration given that he 
feels there have been a number of discrepancies in what hes been told by Santander. We 
have throughout the course of this complaint asked for additional information. Some 
information we have been able to obtain, some hasnt been available (such as a recording of 
the call Mr B had with Santander on the day of the transaction) and some we do not have 
the power to request given that it relates to accounts that we dont have the right to look into 
as part of this complaint under the circumstances. But, for the sake of clarity, even if I were to obtain further evidence and if this were to lead me to find that Santander didnt act fairly 
and reasonably, I would not make an award or direction. I say this because where the funds 
should be held and whos entitled to decide how these should be allocated is directly linked 
to the ongoing background dispute, which isnt something we can consider. 
Mr B raised concerns that the position weve taken in this case may have been influenced by 
allegations made by other parties to the ongoing background dispute. Thats not the case, 
although were not taking any view in relation to it, we have to be alive to the fact that there 
is an ongoing dispute which is relevant to the activities that are the subject of this complaint. 
And, that dispute isnt something that we have the power to look into. So, it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for us to reach a finding on where the funds should be held or, for example, 
to direct Santander to return the funds to the trust account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman