DRN-2067047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly declined a 
subsidence claim they made under their home insurance policy. Any reference to CIS within 
this decision includes that of its agents, contractors or representatives unless specified.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought their home in 2000. Prior to this, in 1996 the previous owner built an 
extension. In December 2018 Mr and Mrs G contacted CIS to make a claim under their 
policy for subsidence to this extension. CIS reviewed the damage and initially said 
subsidence wasnt the cause. But following some back and forth, it agreed subsidence was 
the cause and it would cover the claim.
Upon a further review, CIS declined the claim in full. It said the subsidence was caused by a 
nearby neighbours trees, and in light of the proximity of the trees and soil type, the affected 
extensions foundations hadnt been built correctly taking into account guidelines applied by 
a certain builder of new homes (I will call them NB). CIS concluded that had the extension 
had been built with deeper foundations, it wouldnt have been damaged by the subsidence. 
CIS agreed itd made mistakes in handling the claim to begin with and offered Mr and Mrs G 
£200 in compensation. They disagreed, saying the vegetation in question hadnt been 
present when the extension was built. They provided an estate agent photo to support this.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and initially didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said the property hadnt been built in line with relevant building regulations at the time so 
there appeared to be a fault in the design of the extension. So he thought CIS had fairly 
excluded the claim due to its faulty design exclusion under the policy. 
 
But our investigator reviewed the complaint again and said CIS had incorrectly relied on NB 
guidelines to determine whether the extension was built to the correct standards as these 
didnt apply to extensions. So he asked CIS to provide a copy of the Building Regulations for 
1996 (when it was built) which it has relied on.
CIS provided comments from a chartered engineer (CE). CE said the regulations in place at 
the time required buildings to be constructed so that ground movement by shrinkage... of 
the subsoil will not impair the stability of any part of the building. As the building had been 
damaged by clay shrinkage subsidence, he said it must not have complied with the Building 
Regulations. He also explained NB guidelines provide more detail than the regulations, 
which he described as a blunt instrument, which is why CIS had considered them.
CE also referred to the current regulations and highlighted a number of previous 
ombudsman decisions that had made reference to the NB guidelines. He concluded Mr and 
Mrs Gs extension had a foundation of 1000mm, and there were tree roots to a depth of 
1400mm. He said an arboriculturalist had confirmed three trees were present at the time of 
the build. And in his expert opinion, had the extension foundations been built to 1700mm (in 
line with NB guidance) the current damage wouldnt have occurred.
The investigator said CE hadnt explained how the relevant Building Regulations hadnt been 
met. And he said there was no specific mention in those regulations as to what the 
foundation depth should be  instead it simply said if a risk can be foreseen, the building 
should be constructed so the subsidence wont impair stability. The investigator said, while 
NB guidelines were more specific, they didnt apply. And nor did the investigator think the 
current rules were relevant. CIS responded to say that since at least 1965 building standards 
have required foundations to be capable of eliminating undesirable effects due to relative 
settlement or limit movements by controlling vegetation. 
CIS reiterated that subsidence damage occurring meant it was self-evident the standard 
wasnt met. And it said following NB guidance provides more precision and is favourable to 
policyholders. It said following Building Regulations alone would lead to claims being 
declined automatically when subsidence occurred. CE also said we should consider whether 
the design for the extension took into account the potential for subsidence  not just whether 
it complied with relevant regulations.
Our investigator reiterated CIS hadnt demonstrated the extension didnt comply with 
Buildings Regulations, and it wasnt enough for CIS to say the NB guidelines werent met. 
And he said it wasnt fair for CIS to say the design simply didnt meet the applicable 
regulations because subsidence had occurred, as there werent any specific depth 
requirements at the time. 
The investigator also said the extension had stood for 22 years before the damage occurred. 
He said this indicated the design wasnt defective  as it seemed likely the damage wouldve 
appeared much sooner if this had been the case. And as the extension had stood for this 
length of time without issue, he was satisfied the foundation depth was adequate, and the 
subsidence damage could be attributed to vegetation growth and not faulty design. 
The investigator concluded it was unfair for CIS to rely on the faulty design exclusion in this 
case and said it should consider the rest of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
As CIS disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And largely for the same reasons our 
investigator has given previously. Ill explain why.
In this case theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Gs home has been damaged by subsidence. 
Their policy covers subsidence damage, but specifically excludes damage that has arisen 
from poor design, defective materials or faulty workmanship.
CIS has said it believes Mr and Mrs Gs extension was damaged by nearby trees, and the 
foundation for this extension wasnt deep enough so it was poorly designed. As CIS has said 
this claim falls under an exclusion, the onus is on it to demonstrate this is the case.
As outlined above, CIS CE has relied on NB standards. I will not repeat these in full as 
theyre known to both parties. But CIS has said these show a minimum foundation depth of 
900mm was required for an extension. And, taking into account the nearby trees, NB 
guidelines wouldve recommended a depth of around 1,700mm. 
I want to be clear that NB standards and guidelines were not building regulations or equivalent to them when the extension was built in 1996. Instead they are standards set out 
by NB within its role of overseeing and supporting improvement of building practices in new 
homes.
Ive read the NB guidelines CIS mentioned, but I cant see Mr and Mrs Gs extension was 
subject to them. I say this as the extension was built on an existing property (not a new 
build), and Ive seen nothing to suggest the builder was required to take into account these 
standards. 
So I dont think its fair for CIS to rely on these guidelines when determining whether or not 
the extensions foundations were adequate. Ive gone on to consider the relevant building 
regulations in place at the time which say:
Ground Movement
A2. The building shall be constructed so that ground movement caused by
(a) Swelling, shrinkage or freezing of the subsoil; or
(b) Landslip or subsidence (other than subsidence arising from shrinkage), in so far as the 
risk can be reasonably foreseen, will not impair the stability of any part of the building
CIS has said the fact that clay shrinkage subsidence has occurred shows that the building 
wasnt correctly constructed. And it has said its use of NB guidelines is beneficial to 
consumers as it includes specific foundation depths that can be adhered to.
When this extension was built, Id agree the builder had a responsibility to ensure it was 
constructed to an appropriate standard  the building regulations from the time. Id expect 
this to include ensuring the foundation is capable of supporting the structure for a reasonable 
period of time, taking into account the circumstances. However in this case I think the 
interpretation that any damage caused by clay shrinkage subsidence would not be covered 
in any circumstances is a harsh one. 
I say this as the following page of the regulations quoted say requirement A2 will be met by 
recommendations and guidance within sections 1-4 of the document. From this Im satisfied 
A2 is broader than CIS has suggested with more detailed and specific information sitting 
behind it.
CIS CE said the foundations werent sufficient in light of nearby trees and Mr and Mrs G 
havent provided expert evidence to show the they were correct at the time of the build. And 
it has said it disagrees that the age of the problem has a bearing on the decisions made on 
the claim.
I acknowledge what CIS says here and Ive considered the evidence its provided. But its 
argument focuses almost entirely on NB guidelines which Ive outlined above simply do not 
apply. It follows Im satisfied the standards it took into account when declining this specific 
claim werent applicable. 
And as our investigator has outlined previously, the extension has been in place and had no 
issues in 22 years. CIS hasnt given any reasoning that would satisfy me why the damage 
didnt occur sooner if the foundations had been faulty for this entire period. And while CIS 
may disagree, in the circumstances of this case Im satisfied this length of time does add 
weight to the argument that this wasnt a faulty design. 
Overall, Im not satisfied CIS has done enough to demonstrate it was fair to rely on the exclusion its said applies. It follows I think it declined the claim unfairly.
To put things right, CIS should now accept the claim for subsidence damage.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited to accept the 
subsidence claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman