DRN-3086895
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited MBFS have unfairly 
charged her for damage to a car that she returned at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs S returned her car to MBFS in June 2021. A third-party agent was appointed to collect 
the car on 2 June 2021. Mrs S called the third party to make arrangements for the collection 
and during the call Mrs S says that she asked about removing her personalised number 
plate. Mrs S states that she was told it wasnt necessary as the agent would have trade 
plates. 
The car was collected on 2 June 2021 and Mrs S was sent an inspection report via email 
later that day which confirmed that there was no damage to the car. On 7 June 2021 the car 
was inspected by Mercedes and a further inspection report was sent to Mrs S. This report 
showed damage to the bumper, two dents on the right-hand panel and door and a charge for 
incorrect personalised number plates on the car. Mrs S was unhappy with these charges and 
complained to MBFS that the dents were not present at the point of the first inspection and 
she was advised that the number plate didnt have to be removed. 
MBFS replied that the charges were correct and in line with the vehicle return standards. It 
said that it was Mrs Ss responsibility to remove the personalised plate. Mrs S remained 
unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought that the damage could be seen 
on the first inspection video and it was unlikely to have occurred in the short time between 
collection and arrival with Mercedes. They thought that the number plate charge was fair and 
had been clearly explained to Mrs S.
Mrs S remained unhappy and thought that the charges were excessive and unfair and asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known and so I wont repeat them in detail here. I will concentrate on 
giving reasons for my decision in relation to the charges that are disputed by Mrs S.
Ive looked again at everything relating to this complaint and looked carefully at both 
inspection videos. I understand why Mrs S is unhappy about the charges and I can 
appreciate that it must have been an unpleasant surprise to receive the bill after she had 
been led to believe that there was no damage following the first inspection which was 
thorough and carried out in excellent conditions. I have taken into account the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines to decide what is fair and reasonable 
together with MBFS own vehicle return standards.
Dealing first with the number plate charges, although Mrs S was told that the collection agent 
would have trade plates and could drive the car with the personalised plate this is a different 
issue to returning the car with the personalised plates still on. The BVRLA guidelines set out 
that drivers should liaise with the finance company before the end of the agreement to 
arrange the transfer of the personalised plate. Because Mrs S returned the car without 
arranging the transfer, I think that the charges raised are fair and reasonable and I cant ask 
MBFS to remove them.
Turning to the damage to the right-hand quarter panel and door, I can see clearly in the 
second inspection video that these dents are on the swage lines. The BVRLA guidance 
states, Dents on the roof or swage line of any panel arent acceptable and this is also 
contained within MBFS vehicle return standards. I appreciate that Mrs S states that these 
are small dents but because of the location of them I cant say that it is unfair or 
unreasonable for MBFS to raise a charge as they arent fair wear and tear according to the 
guidelines. 
I agree with the investigator that the marks made by these dents can just be made out when 
viewing the first inspection video. I dont think it is likely that they occurred after the car had 
been collected. I think it is more likely that the first inspection didnt identify them correctly as 
chargeable damage. Whilst this is unfortunate, I dont think that the charges are unfair as the 
damage was identified to Mrs S very soon after the car had been collected.
In all the circumstances I think that the charges raised are fair and in line with BVRLA 
guidelines and MBFS own vehicle return standards. I do understand my decision will be a 
disappointment to Mrs S and I do sympathise with her frustration but I am unable to uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman