DRN-3603029
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt allow access to 
its account online.
What happened
The director of D explains that on 13 November 2021, he was unable to use the mobile app 
or online banking to access Ds account. The director had calls with NatWest about this on 
15 November 2021 and completed an online form. He says he was told that its access would 
be restored within three days. This didnt happen, and D only received a new customer 
number on 20 November 2021 and an activation code on 23 November 2021. He wasnt 
able to log in until then. He says that as D wasnt able to pay a subcontractor it lost an 
important client. He also says that this isnt the first time this problem with access has 
happened.
NatWest initially paid D £100 and then offered to pay £400 more. It said that it accepted it 
hadnt supported D. It added that D would have access to the account through telephone 
banking and its branches. It asked D to provide evidential documents to support the loss it 
said it made. When it submitted its business file to this service it said that its policy was to 
remove online banking if a customer didnt log in for more than six months. And that use of 
the app didnt count at the time. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything further. He hadnt received 
recordings of the calls about this and so accepted what the director had said about them. He 
said that D could have made alternative arrangements to pay a supplier and gone to a 
branch. The compensation was in line with our guidelines.
D didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director thought NatWests 
refusal to provide the calls was inadequate.  He hadnt seen a term that said he needed to 
log in to online banking within any set period. He had been a customer for over 24 years. He 
wanted to know whether the account was blocked or corrupted or if Ds customer number 
was deleted. No suggestion was made that he go to a branch. Ds work is time sensitive and 
there were upfront costs for working capital. The director said he couldnt move funds to his 
personal account to try and mitigate things. This has affected the value of D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our investigator I asked NatWest to search again for the call recordings and to 
provide more information about the loss of the online service for D. It was able to locate calls 
on the dates that D had provided apart from one the director had with the complaints team 
on 25 November 2011. It said that it didnt have any further documentation about what 
happened. And that a fix had since been added for this issue from February 2022 which 
meant that if a customer logged into the app that would be taken into account. 
I note that in a response to D from the complaints team dated 6 December 2021 NatWest 
said that the profile for D had been corrupted. But in its business file to this service its 
explained that online banking could be removed if a log in hadnt been made for over six 
months. NatWests now stated that the first explanation given to D was at best incomplete 
and is clear that the reason for cancelling Ds customer number was due to the lack of any 
online log in for six months. I appreciate that the director is unhappy as hed lost access in 
the past. He points out that this only seemed to affect D not his other businesses which hed 
only accessed through the app too. I understand that but I wont realistically be able to go 
any further behind NatWests explanation based on whats available.
NatWests referred to terms relating to online banking which state that access can be 
removed to protect a customer and for security reasons and that it will notify a customer of 
this action as soon as possible. This service doesnt have a role in setting such processes. 
But Im able to look at how those processes have been applied and the impact for D. I think 
its difficult to substantiate security concerns when D was using the app without issue. And 
NatWest has now changed its approach to count app log ins. So, any basis for removing 
access was in my view limited even if it was technically covered in the terms and conditions. 
And D wasnt alerted to the criteria applied or notified when this happened. 
I note that a new customer number was needed here, and this wasnt addressed within 
normal timescales. I have little evidence to show the specific steps NatWest took after 15 
November 2021 and what caused any delay.
Ive listened to the call recordings and consider D was proactive about the issue with access. 
It had calls with NatWest on 15 November 2021. And it completed a required form that day 
which even the person the director of D was speaking to said she hadnt seen before. 
Access in any event should have been restored in a matter of days and this didnt happen. 
The director had a discussion with NatWest on 18 November 2011 and had been waiting for 
a call back. By that point he told NatWest that D had already lost a client as he couldnt pay 
upfront costs to a subcontractor. He also made reference to not being able to make a 
telephone banking payment as D couldnt be recognised without a customer number. This 
point wasnt contradicted by the person he spoke to and so Ive no reason to doubt that this 
was the position. He spoke to the complaints team too that day and he explained the losses 
for D and that he couldnt properly use funds from another of his companies and didnt want 
to draw any more money out for himself considering his tax position. He said hed had 
£3,000 to pay and that the nature of the contract was time critical. This had been a major 
client and the loss would affect the value of the business.
I note that D stated in earlier correspondence with NatWest that the subcontractor was some 
distance away, that it didnt take card payments and the director was busy with other things. 
The director reports telling the client the account was locked and he had no guarantee when 
that would change. He wrote they ultimately thought I was lying to them which is why they 
immediately sourced another [] company and have given me the cold shoulder since.
I appreciate that but as D was aware that this work was in jeopardy Ive have reasonably 
expected it to take all possible mitigating actions. This could have included visiting a branch 
to attempt to make a transfer or accessing any other funds if available. Ive nothing to show 
that money couldnt be accessed in a branch: the issue was with online and telephone 
banking. And the implications of any necessary steps could have been reflected in any later 
claim for inconvenience or expenses.  
Having considered all the evidence Im not persuaded that NatWest should be responsible in 
any event for the loss of the client in this way. I dont think that it could reasonably foresee 
the consequences of D not being able to make online payments by 18 November 2021. Thats during a period when D says it knew that the online service might be unavailable for 
up to three days and it wasnt a guaranteed service. And I dont consider that NatWest fairly 
assumed any risks including for what is described by D as a rapid breakdown in the 
relationship with the client. And when the director spoke to NatWest on 18 November 2021 
the work had already been lost so there was nothing NatWest could it seems then do or 
suggest.
D was though clearly caused inconvenience by not having access to online banking until 23 
November 2021 and through the calls the director made about this. I cant consider the 
distress for the director as D is a separate legal entity and a company cant suffer distress. 
Ive taken into account our published guidelines. While Ive noted the time the director spent 
on the phone with NatWest we dont tend to make awards for units of time or use 
professional rates. Ive applied my own judgement to the overall position and having done so 
I think NatWest has already made a reasonable offer to settle this complaint. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. 
I appreciate the director of D will be very disappointed by my assessment. D is free to 
pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept my decision subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
NatWest has made an offer to settle this complaint and pay D a total of £500 which I find is 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc pay 
D a further £400 making total compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman