DRN-2395272
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), that he said he didnt authorise them to make
What happened
Mr D said he hadnt signed any instructions for Allay to pursue PPI claims on his behalf. But 
said from November 2019 they asked him for information for such a claim. He said he hasnt 
responded to Allay and is now being harassed to pay an invoice for a successful PPI claim 
hed never asked them to make.  He complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr D signed In August 2019, a letter of authority (LoA) instructing them to pursue 
a PPI claim on his behalf  to his lender Ill call L. The LoA noted the products to pursue 
were for loan, mortgage and credit card accounts. Allay said they messaged Mr D the day 
after they received his LoA to confirm receipt of the document. And that they forwarded this 
onto L. Allay said they sent notifications from November 2019 to Mr D about his claim and 
asked him to complete a PPI questionnaire, which he didnt return. 
Allay said Mr D hadnt cancelled his agreement with them. And when they were told by L 
that Mr Ds claim was successful, they asked him to pay their success fee.
Mr D wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allays terms were clear in they said theyd notify Mr D when they found 
PPI and submit a PPI claim  for him. As Mr Ds claim was successful, he said Allays 
success fee was justified.
Mr D didnt agree and said he hadnt signed the LoA and hadnt authorised Allay to act for 
him. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration as he doesnt agree that he asked Allay to look into 
whether he had any PPI, and he said he hadnt given them the information needed to 
progress his claim. 
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I 
have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. And I need to determine 
whether its more likely Mr D had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he had, whether 
he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr D has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Ds lender, and this detail was provided. 
So, on balance I think  Mr D completed the on-line form as the information was specific to 
him. On completion of the application, an LoA was generated, populated with this 
information. Allay has said the LoA cant be submitted without a signature being added. As I 
think Mr D completed the application, I have no reason to doubt that he added the signature 
to the form. Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA 
Mr D had agreed to them. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
I can see Allay sent a request to L the day after the on-line PPI application was completed 
to determine whether Mr D had a PPI policy with them. And in November 2019, L told Allay 
that theyd found Mr D had PPI on one of his accounts from February 1990.
I can also see an email was sent to Mr D (the same e mail address provided to us) that says 
Great News. And explains that PPI had been found. As Allay notified Mr D that PPI had 
been found, in line with their terms and conditions this would mean theyd submit Mr Ds 
claim to L.
This doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, as the claim needs to 
show the PPI policy was mis-sold. This is why in December 2019, Allay sent Mr D a PPI 
questionnaire to provide information to further support his claim. I know Mr D didnt return 
the form, but this wasnt a requirement for his claim to continue, it was to provide additional 
information to the lender  if needed  to support his mis-sold PPI claim.
I can see in June 2020  L told both Mr D and Allay that his PPI claim had been successful 
and the compensation they offered. I think this shows L accepted Allay had authority to 
represent Mr D in making his PPI claim, and they werent solely dealing with Mr D. So, Im 
satisfied Mr D authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing a PPI claim for him.
I will now look to see whether Mr D asked Allay to stop working for him. 
The terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us
And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, email or in 
writing.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr D asked Allay to cancel his agreement either within or 
after the 14 day cooling off period. And despite still getting updates I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr D asked Allay to stop or question them as to why they were still contacting 
him. The claim may not have been formalised according to Mr D, but its not enough that he 
simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd submitted his PPI claim to 
L and the claim was successful.
The agreement Mr D had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
And Allays fee as outlined above isnt based on the work they did but on whether the claim 
they submitted was successful or not. Allay submitted Mr Ds claim as their agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. And his claim was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr D agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. Mr D could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he 
cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by Mr D to act on his behalf and his claim was successful. This means Allay can charge their 
success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman