The complaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have refused to add his 
mothers carer to his car insurance policy due to her previous claims history.  He believes 
they should cover her. 
What happened
Mr A contacted RSA in May 2019 to add his mothers carer, Ms A, to his policy. RSA 
explained that as Ms A had three at fault claims within the last five years, she didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria to be added as a named driver. 
RSA then explained that if there were no more fault claims registered, they would be able to 
consider adding Ms A to the policy in May 2020, once one of the claims had dropped from 
her record. 
Mr A was unhappy with this  he felt Ms A should be added as she is his mothers carer and 
needs to be able to drive her to wherever she needs to go. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that RSA had acted fairly and correctly. She explained 
that many factors are taken into consideration when an insurer decides whether or not to 
provide cover, and that claims history is one of them. 
She said that due to the fault claims registered against Ms A  RSA were within their rights 
to not cover her. Mr A explained that the fault claims were incorrect, but our investigator said 
she had nothing to show that this was the case. 
Mr A remained unhappy and so his complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether RSA has acted unfairly in this case, I asked to see their 
underwriting criteria to check their driver acceptance eligibility. 
This has now been provided and it shows that any driver with three or more at fault 
accidents would be declined cover. 
Because of this, I cant say that RSA were wrong to decline cover for Ms A due to the fault 
claims she has registered against her. Its a matter of commercial judgement on their part as 
to what basis they are willing to provide cover. And if someone has a poor claims history its 
for the insurer to decide if they want to insure them.
DRN-1094311RSA has said that it will consider Ms A again in May 2020 if she has less than three fault 
claims, and I think this is fair.
Because of this, I wont be asking RSA to provide cover for Ms A in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman