DRN-3085214
The complaint
Mr T says he wouldve opted out of making contributions to his group flexible retirement plan 
had he received a letter from Standard Life Pension Funds Limited (Standard Life) setting 
out this option. He feels that money has been taken from him unfairly and he wants a refund.
What happened
The Government introduced pension reforms through the Pensions Act 2008. This required 
all employers to offer a workplace pension scheme by February 2018 and to ensure eligible 
workers were enrolled. The intention was to help more people save for their retirement. 
In April 2019 Mr T took on a job with a company Ill call C. By June 2019 C had auto-
enrolled him in a Standard Life pension plan. 
Mr T told us that in May 2020 C wrote to him with information about his Standard Life 
pension. He says this was the first time hed been properly informed about the plan. So, he 
thinks the money was deducted from his salary unfairly, and he wants a refund of all the 
payments. He says he never received a communication from Standard Life informing him he 
could opt out.
Standard Life says it wrote to Mr T on 4 July 2019 with some basic information about his 
pension. The letter included information that if he wanted to opt out of the arrangement he 
had until 3 August 2019 to do so. It says it didnt receive such a request and so contributions 
were deducted from his salary.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T disagreed and so his case has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities,
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows
that Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I recognise this will be disappointing for him. Ill 
explain why Ive arrived at my decision.
Firstly, I note that Mr Ts employer had an obligation to enrol him into a pension arrangement 
which it did. But C also had a duty to inform him this had happened. Ive not seen evidence 
that it wrote to him. I also recognise Mr T has said he raised various issues about his 
pension with his employer at the time. These are matters he may wish to address directly 
with C. However, since his complaint is about Standard Life, Ive only considered its actions. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter Standard Life says it sent to Mr T on 4 July 2019. As well as 
setting out information about his group flexible retirement plan, on the first page it did clearly 
set out his right to opt out of the plan and the deadline for doing this.
Both parties confirmed the address Mr T was living at in 2019. I can see this is the same 
address used by Standard Life for its correspondence with him. On balance, Im satisfied 
that Standard Life issued the letter to the correct address and so I conclude that its more 
likely than not it wouldve been received. And I cant reasonably hold Standard Life 
responsible if it wasnt successfully delivered.
If Mr T had opted out of his Standard Life pension plan within one month of being 
automatically enrolled, he wouldve been treated as if hed never joined, and any 
contributions made wouldve been refunded. Mr T could also have decided to have ceased 
payments after this period, but any contributions made up to that point wouldve remained in 
his pot until at least his minimum pension age.
Mr T sent us copies of his pay slips to review for between April 2019 through to April 2020. 
These showed his pension contributions to Standard Life started in June 2019 and ended in 
March 2020. I understand he left employment with C shortly after this. So, like the 
investigator, I think he ought to have been aware of these deductions and he had the 
opportunity to decide to stop contributions at any time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman