DRN-1252096
 
The complaint
Mrs D complained that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to notice that her provider had 
added critical illness cover to a life insurance policy it had previously sold her when it 
increased the premiums. Despite regularly raising her concerns it took Nat West six years to 
get to the bottom of this. While it has now admitted this error and its mistakes, she doesnt 
believe its offer of compensation is sufficient. She also complained about the policy's 
suitability given the ever-rising cost of premiums.
What happened
Nat West said Mrs D about complained about the reviewability of her premiums in 2006. It 
had provided her with a Final Response Letter (FRL), after rejecting her complaint, and that 
she had not pursued this matter at that time. It was therefore now too late for this service to 
look into this same issue.
It accepted the provider made a mistake and that it had not spotted this or got to the bottom 
of it despite Mrs D raising numerous concerns. It said the provider had offered to reconstruct 
the policy on the basis that critical illness cover had never been added and had given Mrs D 
three compensation options (including a return of part of her premiums and reducing 
them going forward). It understood Mrs D had accepted one of these options so the only 
outstanding issue was its failure to spot the problem and proactively resolve it. In relation to 
these it was offering Mrs D a total of £1,300, which included £600 to pay for the cost of 
receiving advice about which option to choose. It felt this offer, along with the providers 
redress options, was fair and reasonable.
Mrs D said the offer wasnt sufficient to cover the fact that shed had to contact Nat West 
numerous times over the years about a number of issues; her concerns had either been 
ignored or not fully addressed, and all this had caused considerable stress and 
inconvenience.
An investigator at this service said that Mrs Ds complaints about the reviewability of the 
premiums and about the providers redress were being split into separate complaints. She 
acknowledged that Nat West had made a number of errors, had not fully responded on 
occasions and that this had all caused signified worry and inconvenience. But, on balance, 
she felt its overall compensation offer was reasonable.
Mrs D did not agree, and said:
For 20 years shed been paying excess premiums, amounting to £9,800 yet the 
provider is now removing £2,000 from its compensation. Why?
She wants a full refund without any deductions
She is now being pressurised by the provider into accepting this offer
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
It's important to reiterate that Mrs D's complaint about the provider's redress offer - the three 
options - is now the subject of a separate complaint (and against the provider). So I am not 
assessing, in this decision, the financial impact on Mrs D of paying excessive premiums over 
the years and whether the provider's offer fully and fairly compensates her for that. 
Equally, her claim that the policy was unsuitable due to the reviewability factor is also being 
addressed via a separate decision.
This decision solely concerns whether Nat West's offer of £1,300, in total, in lieu of its 
various mistakes is reasonable. I am satisfied that it is fair, and in line with the broad 
guidelines this service sets out covering this issue.. The third party's error was serious and 
Nat West should have spotted it far earlier. But it is the responsibility of the third party to put 
that right and offer suitable compensation, including any trouble and upset payment that is 
appropriate.
Finally, I'd also like to reiterate that it is not for this service to punish a business, as Mrs D 
understandably appears to suggest., but simply to ensure it pays appropriate redress (puts 
things right) offers reasonable compensation for errors and poor service. 
My final decision
As I am satisfied that National Westminster Bank Plc's offer is reasonable, I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman