DRN-4055482
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money he lost as the 
result of a third-party scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 14 December 2022 covered 
the detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ps testimony. But, in summary 
in October 2021, Mr P received a message and a call which appeared to be from his other 
banks fraud team. Having checked the numbers - which appeared genuine - he called back 
and was put through to who he thought was the fraud department but who, ultimately, turned 
out to be a scammer. The scammer persuaded Mr P that his account was under attack and 
he needed to move his money to a safe place. Mr P moved all his money to his Starling 
account and on from there (via eight separate transactions totalling £11,231.56) to the 
scammers account. Shortly after, Mr P realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported 
it to Starling.
Starling felt that Mr P had been provided with an effective warning when making the 
payments and said he hadnt conducted sufficient checks before proceeding. It also felt it 
took appropriate steps to try and recover Mr Ps funds when he reported the scam, but the 
funds had already been removed.
Our investigator upheld the complaint from the first transaction onwards. She felt that Mr P 
had a reasonable basis for belief and that he didnt ignore an effective warning.
Starling didnt agree  it said that although it could see why Mr P had a reasonable basis for 
belief  it felt its warning was effective. It didnt think any vulnerabilities Mr P had affected Mr 
Ps capacity to protect himself from the scam.
As the case couldnt be decided informally, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, broadly for the same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
But, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster,
it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even
though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr P in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect Mr P from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr P was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
speaking to his other banks fraud department, and this wasnt the case. But this isnt 
enough, in itself, for Mr P to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
the victim of an APP scam, like Mr P. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish those exceptions apply. They are:
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: 
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay, 
othe payment was for genuine good or services, and/or that
othe person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
I am also mindful that when Mr P made these payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before it processed a payment, or in some cases declined to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Did Starling meet its obligations under the CRM Code? 
The CRM Code says that effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the customer is initiating the payment instructions.
I dont think Starling ought reasonably to have identified a risk with the individual payments 
Mr P made  given the sums involved. And so, I dont think Starling was required to provide 
an effective warning under the CRM Code, or that it has failed to meet its obligations under 
the CRM Code by not doing so. That said, Starling says Mr P was provided with an effective warning at the time he set up 
the payee details. It has provided us with the actual wording Mr P saw, along with a video 
sample of how a warning similar to this would have been visually presented.
Did Mr P ignore an effective warning?
I appreciate the warning was relevant to the scam which Mr P fell victim to, but I dont think 
this warning is effective  especially in the context of the circumstances of a safe account 
scam.  Visually its not an impactful warning. Theres a lot of text within the warning, which 
during a safe account scam could be difficult to follow. The warning is also not particularly 
direct, personal or clear which is essential in a safe account scam  particularly so given the 
level of coaching thats often involved in this type of scam and the fact the consumer 
genuinely thinks they are speaking to the bank. 
I also dont think the explanation of spoofing is clear enough. I dont think it really gets across 
the point, that scammers can make phone numbers look like the genuine banks phone 
number or a very similar one - which is a common safe account scam feature. It also puts 
the onus back on the consumer to identify whether its a scam by saying if youre not sure 
the payment is genuine when in fact, it should be more direct in confirming that such 
scenarios are highly likely to be or will be a scam. 
Overall, I dont think the warning was effective  so I dont think Mr P ignored an effective 
warning.
Did Mr P make the payments without a reasonable basis for belief?
Starling seems to have accepted the investigators conclusion on this aspect of the CRM 
Code but for completeness, I agree with the investigator and broadly for the same reasons.
Mr P says he received a text message from a number which appeared to be from his other 
banks fraud team. Mr P says he searched the number on the internet and found that the 
number was his other banks genuine telephone number and was also the telephone number 
which appeared on the back of his debit card.
Mr P says he then received a telephone call from a different number that also looked like 
another genuine telephone number belonging to the bank. He says he did not answer that 
call but, after checking things out, called them back. Mr P says the number he called had an 
automated message which confirmed he had been put through to the banks fraud team. Ive 
seen the numbers he was contacted by and can see they were made to look like the banks 
genuine contact numbers. I think all of this reassured him he was speaking to the genuine 
bank. 
I appreciate to the trained eye and with the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some 
red flags but I have thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr P to do 
bearing in mind the pressure he would have been under in the moment of the call like this. 
On balance, I believe that it was difficult for Mr P to think clearly in the moment and once in 
the call he had little opportunity to make further enquiries. In all the circumstances, I dont 
think his response was unreasonable.Should Starling have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr P?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im not going to go into detail here because under these considerations, I would still reach 
the same overall conclusion as I have under the CRM Code. That is, I would still expect 
Starling to refund the transactions in full. In terms of the outcome here the only relevance of 
this point is in respect of the date from when interest should be paid on any refunds.
I dont think the first two transactions would have caused Starling any concern. The 
payments were relatively small (although I appreciate it is a lot of money to Mr P) and did not 
look unusual or suspicious based on the account activity. Banks cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But I 
think when Mr P made a second transfer 11 minutes after the first and then a third transfer 
happened two minutes after that, Starling ought to have been concerned that a pattern was 
emerging synonymous with safe account scams. The first transfer had also been proceeded 
by a large credit into the account and the recent historical activity on the account was 
minimal. I think this looked unusual and suspicious. Starling ought to have been concerned 
and intervened by stopping the third transfer until it could speak to Mr P. I think if it had done 
- it would have broken the spell by bringing to life what this type of scam looks and feels like. 
 
Did Starling do enough to recover Mr Ps funds? 
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness 
Ive also thought about whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Mr Ps funds once 
it was made aware he was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made at 17:05 
on 5 October 2021 and the last payment at 18:58. The scam was reported at 21:08 and 
Starling contacted the beneficiary bank at 22:33 the same day. The beneficiary responded to 
Starling saying no funds remained and Ive seen the evidence that all but 58p was removed 
within half an hour of the last transaction. This is not unusual as scammers usually remove 
funds within minutes or hours. From what Ive seen Starling have done what it shouldve to 
try and recover the funds for Mr P but have been unable to obtain a refund for him.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P, Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund all the transactions 
To compensate Mr P for being deprived of the money he lost, Starling should add simple 
interest1 at the rate of 8% per annum to the above on the following basis:
 
ofrom the date his claim was declined to the date of settlement for transactions 1-2
ofrom the date of transfer to the date of settlement for transactions 3-8
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr P a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I requite Starling Bank Limited to put 
things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman