DRN-3752804
Complaint
Miss B has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. Amongst other things, she said the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss B with a loan for £6,250.00 in August 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 57.9% and a term of 60 months. This mean that the total amount to be repaid of 
£19,597.80, including interest, fees and charges of £13,347.80, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of just over £325. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Bs complaint and he thought that Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss B with her loan. So he thought that Miss Bs complaint should 
be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss B had a significant 
amount of existing debts. While there has been some suggestion some of them were to be 
consolidated, the interest rate and term of this loan meant that this was going to be an 
incredibly expensive option.
Furthermore and more importantly the bank statements Everyday Loans obtained showed 
that Miss B had returned direct debits. Miss B was also overdrawn on this account, was 
using a payday type lender for additional overdraft borrowing and she was clearly also 
making payments to debt collectors. 
Im mindful that all of this took place in the context of Miss B having what was clearly a 
fluctuating income. And all of this leaves me persuaded by what Miss B has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible Miss Bs 
apparent difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my 
experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable 
or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Bs 
version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Bs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss B. As Everyday 
Loans provided Miss B with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss B has ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss B lost out because of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss B by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss B made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£6,250.00 originally lent. If Miss B has already repaid more than £6,250.00 then 
Everyday Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Miss B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if there are any, 
from the date they were made by Miss B to the date of settlement;
if, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Everyday 
Loans should remove all adverse information it recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman