DRN-3651551
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments from her account that she 
says she happened after her card was stolen. Shed like the transactions to be refunded.
What happened
Miss K holds a current account with Santander. In February 2022 she received some money 
into her account, from her partner and from a refund she was due. She says she was 
checking her balance at an ATM as her phone battery was low. After she finished at the 
machine and put her card in her jacket pocket somebody asked for directions, and she 
believes she was pickpocketed while she was distracted. The thief then went on to make 
transactions she didnt authorise, including ATM withdrawals and in a casino. She says she 
became aware of this when Santander sent her messages about the payments later in the 
day.
Miss K reported this to Santander, but they declined to refund her. They said the genuine 
card and PIN had been used for each transaction, and as such they shouldnt be liable for 
the transaction.
Unhappy with this answer Miss K referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained that generally banks should refund transactions on an account that the consumer 
didnt authorise. But in this case, he felt it was more likely than not Miss K authorised the 
payments herself. He said he didnt think it was likely someone would be able to learn the 
PIN in the way Miss K had described. He also said Miss K had made an undisputed payment 
to one of the disputed merchants a few days earlier. Overall, he didnt ask Santander to do 
anything further.
Miss K disagreed, saying she didnt know how precisely her card was taken. She said she 
wasnt in the area at the time of the transactions. She also said she wanted to the service 
from Santander looked in to. As no agreement was reached the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 say, in summary, that a bank should generally 
refund a consumer if a payment comes out of their account that they didnt authorise. Ive 
seen from the technical evidence provided that the payments in dispute were authenticated 
using Miss Ks genuine card and PIN, so theres no dispute about the transactions coming 
about because of something like a technical error. 
The key consideration for me whether its more likely than not Miss K or someone on her 
behalf made the transactions. If so, then they would be considered authorised and it would 
be reasonable for Santander to hold her liable.
Having scrutinised the evidence available, and the wider circumstances of the complaint, Im 
satisfied the transactions in dispute were authorised by Miss K. 
Its possible that a sophisticated thief would look to distract Miss K after observing 
her enter her PIN. But I note that as Miss K remembers this interaction it was unusual 
enough that you may expect a reasonable person to check their person afterwards 
for their card. Especially as someone would have needed to be close enough to her 
to observe her enter her PIN, and pickpocket her card afterwards. But it doesnt 
seem that Miss K did until she contacted Santander some three hours later. 
The balance on the account was considerably higher than it regularly was previously. 
Miss K has said her partner had sent her some money. But I note shed also recently 
deposited a large sum into the account, which had seemingly been transferred out to 
other accounts in her name. A portion of the money also appears to come from 
another account in her name. This doesnt support her story about why this money 
was in her account at the time. Another explanation was the money was transferred 
in in anticipation of being removed and reported as fraudulent.
Looking at the account history, it doesnt appear this was Miss Ks regular account  
there are no bills paid out or wages paid in. It hadnt been used for several years 
prior to the disputed transactions. So, it seems a very unusual choice of account for 
Miss Ks partner to pay in to, and to receive a refund from a company. And after 
checking her balance Miss K doesnt seem to make any attempt to use any of this 
money, which I find unusual in the circumstances.
If the card was taken shortly after Miss K left the ATM, then it is still approximately 20 
minutes before the thief attempted to make us of the card  in an area where there 
would be abundant ATMs or opportunities to use it. I would generally expect a skilled 
thief, who would be able to distract Miss K and take her card without noticing, to try to 
spend as much as possible in a short period of time as the longer they wait the more 
likely it is the card owner would find out whats happening and cancel the card. But in 
this case the pattern of payments appears unhurried, taking place over several hours 
before the card is cancelled.
One of the transactions was to a casino, where Miss K made an undisputed 
transaction two days previous. Considering the lack of use of this account up to this 
point I find it would be a remarkable coincidence that an unknown thief not known to 
Miss K would go to the exact same place she had used the exact same card only 
recently.
Taking all this into account, along with the wider circumstances of which I am aware, Im not 
persuaded that these transactions were carried out by an unknown thief. I think they were 
more likely than not either carried out by Miss K, or someone on her behalf. Im satisfied that 
they were likely authorised, and as such its fair for Santander to hold her liable for them.
Having reviewed the correspondence and notes Ive not seen anything to suggest the 
service provided by Santander was subpar or unreasonable. I can see they investigated 
Miss Ks claim in a reasonable timescale and provided her with an answer. I dont consider 
the service provided to have led to any detriment to her, and as such Im not asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman