DRN-3088336
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his payments, and he was subject to 
unnecessary checks.
What happened
On 15 January 2021, Mr F was the victim of a fraud. Lloyds took the necessary action to 
stop it. On 4 February 2021, there was a credit of £15,000 into his account. On 5 February 
2021, Mr F tried to make a payment of £4,500 to a friend. It was blocked by Lloyds. He 
called Lloyds and was asked to go to a branch with his ID. The payment was then made.
Mr F complained. He said he spent a long time trying to get through to Lloyds. And then - the 
checks were intrusive. He then had to spend a lot of time to travel to the branch to provide 
his ID. And  this was in the middle of the pandemic, at a risk to his health. Subsequently, he 
tried to make another payment to the same person, and that was also blocked. So, he had to 
call Lloyds again and go through the same checks. He lost two working days to sort the 
transfers out.
Lloyds said the checks were necessary to prevent fraud, as the payments had been flagged 
as potential frauds, so they had to check they were genuine. Their branches were adhering 
to safety procedures, including social distancing and face masks during the pandemic. The 
wait times were regretted, but these were also a result of the pandemic. They apologised for 
the inconvenience that Mr F had suffered and paid compensation of £50.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that when Mr F called Lloyds, they 
werent comfortable with his answers, and therefore asked him to go to their next level of 
security checks  which was to visit a branch with photo identification. When Mr F attempted 
a further payment some days later, to the same person, it was again blocked, and he had to 
go through similar checks. But she said that this was all part of Lloyds security checks  
which they had to do to prevent fraud. She said the payment of compensation of £50 by 
Lloyds was reasonable.
Mr F asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr F is coming from  he feels that having gone through some questioning 
when he called Lloyds, he then had to go to a branch  where similar questions were asked. 
And then  when he later wanted to make another payment to the same beneficiary, he went 
through the same thing again. He thinks this isnt necessary  and it took a lot of his valuable 
time.
Its an unfortunate fact that there are a lot of frauds in the banking system  and all banks, 
including Lloyds, must have processes and checks in place to stop them. If they dont, then 
customers stand to lose money. So  ultimately, Lloyds are trying to help customers with 
their checks. And  I can see that when Mr F was the victim of an attempted fraud in January 
2021, Lloyds stopped it by taking action. 
We cant tell Lloyds what their checks should be. But they told us that Mr Fs payment of 
£4,500 was blocked because it was flagged as a potential fraud. This was because it was an 
unusual amount, and  I can see there was a large and unusual credit of £15,000 paid into 
his account the previous day, on 4 February 2021. There had also been an attempted fraud 
on Mr Fs account the previous month. So  I can see why the payment in question was 
blocked pending further checks  Lloyds wanted to make sure it was genuine, and not a 
fraud. When Mr F first called Lloyds, their call handler wasnt comfortable with his answers 
and they therefore asked him to go to a branch with his identification. Thats up to Lloyds to 
decide and make a judgement on, but I can see why they did that.
Mr F has also complained that another payment to the same person was also blocked, 
several days later. While I can see that Mr F might feel that was also unnecessary, Im afraid 
that if Lloyds fraud system flags any payment as a suspected fraud, they must run their 
checks  each payment is treated separately. On the second occasion, Mr F passed Lloyds 
checks on the phone.
Im sorry to hear that Mr F spent a long time on the phone, and in visiting the branch. This 
was inconvenient for him. But I cant say that Lloyds did anything wrong, and they had to 
complete their security checks. And so  the payment of £50 they made was reasonable for 
what happened.
I can appreciate how Mr F feels, and so he will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not 
going to ask Lloyds to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman