DRN-2933147
The complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty put incorrect information on his credit file. He 
says his credit file shows he has missed loan payments when this wasnt the case. He says 
it has taken him a lot of time and effort to get his credit file corrected. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr H on 30 April 2016. 
This was an arrangement where Mr H could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. He would 
need to repay a minimum of 5% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued 
interest or charges, or £50 whichever was the lower.  
The arrangement had an initial credit limit of £300. Draftys records show that Mr H used the 
account between 30 April 2016 and 9 February 2017. Its been established that Mr H had 
problems repaying the loan. He arranged to settle it with the help of a third-party 
organisation. The account was closed on 9 February 2017. 
Despite this, Mr H has provided an excerpt from his credit file that shows that it was being 
reported that he missed payments to this account from August 2019 to February 2020. 
Drafty has looked at Mr Hs complaint about this issue. It firstly said that it was correct to 
report the missing repayments in 2019 and 2020. But Drafty later acknowledged this 
information was incorrect. Drafty has now said that it hasnt reported anything to any credit 
reference agency about this loan since February 2017. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought it was likely, given the 
correspondence she had seen, that Drafty had provided misleading information. She 
recommended that Drafty pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience this would have 
caused him. Drafty agreed with what the adjudicator said.  
Mr H didnt agree with this. He thought the compensation should be higher. That is between 
£200 and £500. He also wanted this loan removed from his credit report and all of the 
information about the facility from the credit reference agencies. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
It isnt entirely clear to me why Mr Hs credit file showed that he had missed payments in 
2019 and 2020 on a loan that was closed in 2017. But Drafty didnt disagree with our 
adjudicator when she said that it was likely to have some responsibility for this. And I agree 
that this is likely to be the case, given the correspondence I have seen about this issue. And 
its unfortunate that Drafty said reporting the missed repayments on his credit file was correct 
in response to the complaint. So, I agree that Drafty hasnt got everything right here. 
So, the main issue I have to consider here is whether the compensation is adequate to put 
this right. 
When thinking about compensation for this kind of mistake its reasonable to bear in mind 
that things do go wrong from time to time and this is part and parcel of dealing with Financial 
(and other) businesses. As this is the case it is important that any mistakes are put right, so 
they dont cause a consumer any further inconvenience. I think its fair to say this has 
happened here. I understand Mr Hs credit file is now correct.  
Its also worth noting that I cant make an award on the basis that it will punish the business. 
Any award needs to be made taking onto consideration how this has affected Mr H alone.
And whilst Mr Hs credit file showed some incorrect information I havent seen that he has 
suffered a financial loss because of this. And Mr H hasnt said that this is the case at any 
point. So, I wont make an award on this basis. 
Mr H needed to spend some time to resolve this and I appreciate this will have been 
frustrating for him. But as Ive said above it isnt unreasonable to expect to have to do this 
from time to time. Because of all of the above I think the amount of compensation the 
adjudicator recommended is fair. I think Drafty should pay Mr H £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience this issue caused him. 
  
Putting things right
Drafty should do the following. If it has already taken some of the steps below it doesnt need 
to do them again. 
Drafty should ensure that any credit reference agencies it reports to are informed this 
account was repaid on 9 February 2017.  
Any another adverse information recorded after 9 February 2017 for this account 
should be removed.
Pay Mr H £100 compensation. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman