DRN-3424171
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SOL) declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S booked a trip abroad  with him being due to travel in April 2020. He 
made two separate bookings. One for his flights  which he booked directly with an airline. 
And the second with a company abroad to provide accommodation and activities. 
Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt able to travel on holiday as planned. This was because his flights 
were cancelled, as a result of the global coronavirus pandemic. Mr S did receive a refund for 
these flights. But he wasnt able to get a refund of the deposit paid for his accommodation 
and activities. He said the company providing these elements of his trip were still operating 
in April 2020, despite the pandemic  and so it wouldnt offer him a refund for his booking.
Because of this Mr S made a claim under this travel insurance policy. SOL looked at this and 
declined the claim. It said the policy Mr S had specifically excluded claims that arose from 
pandemic or epidemics, as declared by a government or the World Health Organisation. And 
it noted Coronavirus had been declared a pandemic prior to Mr S holiday  and was the 
reason for its cancellation. So, it wasnt able to provide any settlement in this instance. 
In addition to this, it highlighted that the policy excluded cover where there was a change of 
plans due to a supplier. SOL said the airline was a supplier, and it had made a change which 
stopped Mr S going on his trip. So, it said this exclusion in the policy meant it couldnt settle 
the claim either.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, and so raised a complaint about the matter. SOL responded 
and maintained its position. Because Mr S remained dissatisfied with this, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
When referring his complaint to this service Mr S highlighted that he had booked his trip in 
October 2019, when Coronavirus wasnt declared a pandemic. And said that at no point did 
SOL contact him, to advise him his policy was invalid.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She noted 
that the policy specifically excluded losses resulting from a WHO declared epidemic or 
pandemic. And she noted that at the time the holiday was cancelled, the WHO had declared 
the Coronavirus a global pandemic. It was because of this pandemic that Mr S flights were 
cancelled, and he couldnt attend his trip. So, she was satisfied SOL had acted fairly in 
noting the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that hed booked the holiday before the pandemic was declared, 
and so cover under his policy should be in place. He also referenced a position in respect of 
business interruptions claims, and that a similar approach should be taken to this claim. 
Lastly, Mr S noted that he continued to pay premiums for the policy after the WHO declared 
a pandemic  and questioned why those payments were still taken. 
Because Mr S didnt agree his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr S  its clear he feels strongly about the 
matter. But I have considered all information provided when coming to my decision. 
However, in this decision Ive only referred to what I consider necessary to illustrate my 
reasoning. 
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether SOL, in declining Mr S claim, did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did.
I say this because Im satisfied SOL acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr S 
policy. Ive seen Mr S policy documents, which detail the cover the policy provides. And Im 
aware that whilst Mr S policy does cover cancellation claims, there are exclusions to this 
cover. One such exclusion is as follows:
YOU are not covered for
()
8. any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any 
Government and/or the World Health Organisation.
Given the above, Im aware that if Mr S loss arose from a government or WHO declared 
pandemic, the claim isnt covered. This isnt an unusual term in policies of this nature. So, 
Ive thought about whether Mr S situation falls into this exclusion. 
I understand that the WHO declared a global pandemic on 11 March 2020. And the reason 
for Mr S cancelled flights no longer going ahead was because they were cancelled due to 
the pandemic. And it was this that meant Mr S could no longer go on his holiday. As this was 
the case, Im satisfied the reason for the loss was the declaration of a pandemic, in line with 
the above. And so, I think SOL acted fairly, in line with the policy terms, when declining Mr S 
claim.
Mr S has said that when he booked the trip, in October 2019, there was no global pandemic. 
And I do acknowledge this was the case. However, this doesnt change the outcome of this 
complaint. For a claim to be covered the reason the holiday was cancelled needs to 
something covered by the policy. So, its that which is relevant, rather than the situation at 
the time of booking. And as above, the cause of the loss was the categorisation of the global 
pandemic.
Mr S has raised that his premiums continued to be collected after the WHO declared a 
pandemic. And he feels this was unfair, when the policy no longer provided cover. But I dont 
agree. It is usual for policies to contain exclusions, such as the one. And so, it is the case 
that not all claims will be covered by a policy. Having considered the policy, it did still provide 
cover for various risks, including after the pandemic was declared. And so, I dont think SOL 
has done anything wrong here. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Society of Lloyds to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman