DRN-3953722
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society misled them about an exchange 
rate, which resulted in a loss of nearly £5,000. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P investigated the most efficient way that they could transfer €250,000 to the UK 
in a foreign currency. They say they contacted a third party company on 9 June 2022, who 
had previously carried out transfers to their overseas bank. The third party quoted them an 
exchange rate of €1.165 to £1, which was similar to what the financial press was showing as 
€1.1694 to £1, but the third party company said Mr and Mrs P would need to open a relevant 
account with them. 
As Mr and Mrs P held an account with Nationwide, Mr P contacted it to get an indication of 
the exchange rate, and he says Nationwide said they would receive £214,498.68, which 
worked out at €1.1655 to £1. As this was similar to the financial press and the third party 
company, they decided to transfer the funds to their Nationwide account. On 21 June 2022 
they checked the financial press, which quoted the exchange rate as €1.1636 to £1. They 
expected a similar rate for Nationwide, so they proceeded with the transfer. But the rate they 
received was at €1.1825. They believe they were misquoted the exchange rate when they 
contacted Nationwide on 9 June, which led to them transferring the money to Nationwide 
resulting in a loss of £4,822.55 compared to the separate exchange rate on 21 June. Mr and 
Mrs P made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. It said when Mr P rang on 9 June 
2022, the call handler looked at the current exchange rate online, but he informed Mr P that 
this was just a rate he was obtaining online to give Mr P an idea of the exchange rate at the 
time. It said the call handler advised Mr P that there was no guarantee he would get this rate 
when he received the payment. Nationwide said Mr P received poor service on a webchat he 
had with it on 23 June 2022, so it would credit Mr and Mrs Ps account with £25. Nationwide 
said it had advised Mr P on each occasion he rang that it was unable to provide him with the 
exchange rate which would be applied to the transfer as this is provided to it by a third party 
bank. Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. He said when Mr P called 
Nationwide on 9 June 2022, the call handler said he couldnt tell Mr P the exchange rate, but 
he could look online to find an estimate. While Mr P thought the call handler was checking 
Nationwides exchange rate, the call handler didnt say this as he was looking at an 
unconnected website to give Mr P an indication of what the foreign exchange rate was. Mr 
and Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said they believed the 
call handler quoted the commercial exchange rate rather than the tourist rate, not knowing 
which rate he was quoting. They said the rate between 9 June 2022 and when they received 
the payment had varied minimally, so if the misleading exchange rate had not been quoted 
they wouldve used a third party bank instead to receive the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr P had with Nationwide on 9 June 2022. Mr P asks if he 
was receiving the payment that day, could the call handler tell him what exchange rate he 
would get. The call handler says unfortunately not, because I dont do it here, I dont know 
what the exchange rates would be. Mr P asks have I got some idea of finding out what the 
exchange rate will be today? and the call handler says I can have a quick look on the 
internet, again, this wou..this wouldnt be sort of guaranteed, it would just be what the 
exchange rate is currently showing, so depends on again, if it comes over as the business 
rate or the sort of like the tourist rate as well. But if youre looking to send 250,000 you said 
yeahand thats Euros to Sterling. Err were looking again  just take this with a pinch of 
salt, were looking at £214,498.68. Mr P asks is that a business rate or a err or a tourist 
rate? and the call handler replies Im not too sure, like thats just on the the website Ive 
gone to that theyve given us that information and Mr P says fine, thank you. 
So here, the call handler has been clear that he hasnt got access to what the Nationwide 
exchange rates are. He said he could go on the internet to show what the rate was currently 
showing. He didnt say that he would go on Nationwides intranet (which would be an internal 
site showing their policies and procedures) or Nationwides website. He was using the term 
the internet to give Mr P an indication of what the current exchange rate would be. But Mr P 
believed the call handler was looking at Nationwides exchange rates and not generic 
internet exchange rates which he would be able to look at himself. The call handler did not at 
any time say these were Nationwides exchange rates on this day. But he did say earlier in 
the call that he didnt know what the exchange rates would be. 
So Im persuaded that Mr P should have realised the call handler was talking about generic 
exchange rates on the internet to give Mr P an indication of what he would receive based on 
the foreign exchange rates quoted online. Otherwise if the call handler would have been able 
to access Nationwides exchange rates so simply, then he would have been able to tell Mr P 
the exchange rate he would get straight away, when Mr P had asked for this. But when Mr P 
asked if the call handler had quoted the business rate or the tourist rate, the call handler tells 
Mr P that he wasnt too sure. And therefore Mr P ought to have been aware that the generic 
rate online that the call handler had quoted him could be different if it was the tourist rate or 
Nationwides standard exchange rate.
As the call handler had quoted a foreign exchange rate online and not from Nationwides 
systems  as he didnt have access to this from Nationwides systems, then this is why the 
exchange rate was similar to what Mr P had seen in the financial press and the third party he 
used for his overseas transfers. But I cant say Mr P was misled by the call handler. 
Nationwides terms and conditions show it will convert an incoming foreign currency payment 
into pounds sterling using its standard inbound exchange rate  not an exchange rate in the 
financial press or on a third party website (like the call handler looked at). The terms are 
clear that its standard inbound exchange rate may vary, depending on the payment type. 
Nationwide paid Mr and Mrs P £25 for Mr Ps experience on the webchat and for not being 
able to locate the complaint they raised. Mr P was inconvenienced by having to chase this 
up with Nationwide and he hadnt finished his chat with a previous web agent when the chat 
was disconnected. Im satisfied that the compensation was fair and its in line with our 
guidelines for compensation. So it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything further. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman