DRN-3146776
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt sent him the 
balance on his credit card account of £300.
What happened
Mr L says he closed his Barclaycard account in November 2019 with a credit balance of 
£300. He says Barclaycard told him he would receive a cheque for the balance, but he didnt 
receive it. Mr L says he made numerous telephone calls to Barclaycard about this issue and 
was promised call backs which he didnt receive. And was lied to. He says this problem has 
caused significant stress and anxiety and would like the money refunded as well as interest 
and compensation.
Barclaycard says the cheque for £300 was sent to Mr L in December 2020 and he cashed it 
on 24 December 2020. It has apologised for the delay and paid £50 compensation. It also 
says it tried to cancel the cheque but later realised it had been cashed. Barclaycard has also 
apologised for failing to call Mr L back and has offered £25 compensation for that.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator asked Mr L to look at his bank account 
statements. Mr L confirmed the cheque has been cashed. The investigator thought the 
overall compensation offer of £75 appropriate and thought Barclaycard had apologised for 
the delay and failure to call Mr L back.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and says he has lost work as a result of what took place and 
says he doesnt want other Barclaycard customers affected by this sort of issue. He says he 
didnt receive Barclaycards letters of apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision and I hope he 
appreciates that I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for the letters not being received 
by him as its not responsible for the delivery of the mail.
I appreciate Mr L says he closed his Barclaycard account in November 2019 with a credit 
balance of £300. I have looked at Barclaycards records and Im satisfied the account was 
not closed then and there wasnt a £300 balance. I can see from Mr Ls account statements 
that he received a credit of £300 from a holiday company at the end of July 2020 and that 
would have appeared on his August 2020 statement. So, I dont think Mr L had been asking 
Barclaycard for the £300 to be refunded to him from November 2019 or that he was waiting 
from that date for the refund.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard sent Mr L a cheque for the £300 in December 2020 and that 
the cheque was cashed on 24 December 2020. I dont think it clear why Mr L didnt 
remember that as I can see that he maintained he hadnt received the cheque when he 
brought his complaint to us in May 2021. I appreciate Mr L may well have spoken to 
Barclaycard about the whereabouts of the cheque and I also accept that Barclaycard ought 
to have been able to tell him that it had been cashed. But I think it likely that many of Mr Ls 
calls to Barclaycard were about something that he ought reasonably to have known about 
and that he had received his money.
I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive Barclaycards letters to him. But Im satisfied 
Barclaycard has fairly apologised for the delay in providing him with information about the 
cheque and has fairly apologised for the failure to call Mr L back. The key issue is the level 
of compensation and Im satisfied that Barclaycard has paid £50 for the delay and offered a 
further £25 for the failure to call Mr L back. Im satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable and 
takes into account the fact that I dont think Mr L suffered any direct financial loss and I have 
not seen any evidence of call costs to Barclaycard. I have also made clear that I think a 
number of those calls are likely to have been caused by Mr L not realising he had received 
and cashed the cheque in December 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this complaint and I will of course leave 
it up to Mr L to decide if he wishes to accept the offer of a further £25 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of a further £25 compensation. Mr Ls acceptance of that offer would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman