DRN-4141058
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
Mr S is represented in this case, but for ease I will refer to Mr S throughout.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr S bought a motor insurance policy covering his high value car. He 
bought this online via a price comparison website.
In August 2022, Mr Ss car was stolen, and he made a claim.
UKI declined his claim because his car didnt have an active tracking device fitted. UKI said 
Mr S needed to have this on his car for it to be able to provide cover for the car being stolen.
Mr S complained. He says he wasnt aware he needed to have a tracking device fitted. He 
bought the policy online and he says UKI didnt tell him about the tracking device 
requirement until after hed bought the policy, which he says is unfair.
Mr S said his car had the ability to be tracked by its manufacturer using its built-in GPS 
system. He says he was told by the manufacturer that the police needed to request this. Mr 
S asked the police, who told him UKI needed to do it. UKI then called the manufacturer but 
said it ended the call due to an excessive call wait time.
UKI said it had provided Mr S with the information that he needed to have a tracking device.
This included on his policy schedule, on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
and in the policy booklet.
UKI says it gives customers 14 days to check that the policy is suitable for their needs and 
they can cancel the policy during this time.
It refused to consider Mr Ss claim any further. But it did agree its service during the claim 
had been poor because Mr S had been promised call backs, and it offered him £50 
compensation.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants UKI to settle his 
claim, and pay compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought UKI 
had reasonably done enough to bring the tracking device requirement to Mr Ss attention. He 
also thought UKI had tried to find out the cars location, which would have been done straight 
away by an active tracking device. Because Mr S hadnt checked his policy documents, UKI 
were entitled to rely on its exclusion and not pay Mr Ss claim.
Mr S didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
In dealing with Mr Ss complaint Ive considered many different issues that have been raised 
by him. Having done this, Im intending to reach a different decision from our investigator 
about the service he had from UKI.
But its important that I say that Im not intending to uphold what I think is the main part of his 
complaint, about the rejection of his claim. Ill explain why.
Buying the policy
Mr S bought the policy in September 2021. He bought it online via a price comparison 
website.
This is important because I can see from his evidence that Mr S has used UKIs own website 
to demonstrate that he wasnt asked or told about the tracking device requirement during the 
sales process.
But that wasnt the website he used to buy it from, and I think its fair to say that the sales 
process is likely to have been different to some degree.
In addition, Mr S checked the sales process after the claim had happened, which is likely to 
have been a year or more after he originally bought the policy. This would often mean that 
the sales process being followed on the website has changed, and its also possible that 
UKIs underwriting requirements have changed in the intervening period.
I also asked UKI to provide a copy of the buying process for Mr Ss policy, but it wasnt able 
to obtain this.
These factors are all very important, because we dont have a definitive version of Mr Ss 
sales journey in September 2021. Mr S has provided evidence that UKIs website doesnt 
currently inform an applicant about the requirement for a tracking device and subscription, 
but that doesnt necessarily mean that it didnt at the time.
But I dont think that matters. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss policy documents he was 
provided when he bought the policy and I can see that the necessity for a tracking device 
was included in them.
Its mentioned on the policy schedule on page four, which says:
Endorsements
A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network subscription 
for Theft cover to apply.
Its also in the IPID on the first page:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
We will not pay a claim if your car is stolen and any tracking device, which we 
insist is fitted, has not been set or is not in full working order
Its also referenced in the policy wording on page 14:
Using tracking devicesWe won't cover any loss or damage if we required a tracking device to be installed on 
your car and:
It hasn't been fitted.
The policyholder, main driver or anyone else named on the policy is aware 
that it's not working.
The device is not connected to a network because a subscription or service is 
not active.
The driver recognition device for any tracking device is left unattended in or 
on your car.
If we need you to use a tracking device, you can see this under 'Endorsements' in 
your car insurance details. [this relates to the policy schedule above]
I can see that these documents were issued to Mr S by email dates two days before his 
policy started.
In later correspondence, Mr S has said that if the requirement for a Tracking device had 
been made clear at the quotation stage, he wouldnt have purchased this policy. He knew 
that other insurance companies wouldnt have required him to have, and be using, a tracking 
device.
It seems to me that Mr S knew that it was a possibility that an insurer might have made it a 
requirement of his policy to have a tracking device fitted and in-use. So, while I agree that 
we dont have definitive evidence of whether he was told about this during the sales process,
I think I can agree that he was told about this as part of his policy documents.
Given that he was aware there might have been a need to have a tracking device, I think Mr 
S should have taken the opportunity to read and understand his policy carefully. If he had, 
then he would have realised the tracking device was required, and he would have been able 
to cancel it before it started, or shortly after during the cooling-off period.
Mr S has also made several legal arguments in his response to the view. Ive reviewed the 
points hes made and have considered the relevant regulators rules  the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS sets out UKIs obligations when providing 
a customer with information about a policy.
ICOBS 6.1.5 (1) states:
A firm must ensure that a customer is given appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed 
choice about the arrangements proposed.
ICOBS 6.1.6 (1) states:
The appropriate information rule applies:
at all of the different stages of a contract and includes pre-conclusion and post- 
conclusion, and also when mid-term changes and renewals are proposed
Ive said above that I dont think we have definitive evidence about the actual sales process to say whether Mr S was told about the requirement before he bought the policy. But I dont 
think that matters here, because I can see that UKI did supply Mr S with the information he 
needed to make an informed choice. Its important that I say even though it was only two 
days before the policy started, it was Mr Ss choice to wait until that point before buying the 
policy.
Im satisfied that UKI gave Mr S enough time to consider its cover, and he had sufficient time 
to source alternative cover if he was unhappy with the cover offered by UKI.
Manufacturers tracking device
I can see from Mr Ss claim details that his car had a device fitted by the car manufacturer 
which had the ability to function as a tracking device. This device needed a subscription to 
the manufacturers service to operate fully, but the manufacturer could access the device 
using its own systems, even if the subscription wasnt active.
The endorsement Ive talked about above says that:
A tracking device must be fitted to this car and have a current network subscription 
for Theft cover to apply.
It seems to me that merely having a device fitted isnt enough here. UKI say it must have a 
current network subscription, and I can see from Mr Ss description of events that he didnt 
have this.
Ive said above that I think UKI did show the condition to Mr S in his policy documents and 
hed had time and opportunity to make sure he was happy with this. I realise this decision 
will greatly disappoint Mr S, but I think UKI has treated him fairly in declining his claim.
Claims service
When Mr Ss car was stolen I can see he made many calls to UKI, the police and the car 
manufacturer in an attempt to locate the car. The manufacturer said it knew where the car 
was, but could only tell the police. The police in turn said that UKI could get this information 
from the manufacturer.
UKI then called the manufacturer but UKI abandoned the call. From the evidence I have, UKI 
say it did this because locating the vehicle wasnt part of its claims service. Mr S has said 
UKI gave up the call after being on hold for about ten minutes.
Ive thought carefully about this. Mr S was in the position where his claim had been declined.
He was no doubt under a great deal of stress and he was contacting third parties who had 
access to seemingly useful information. I understand UKIs position that it doesnt contact 
third parties to locate vehicles, but in this situation where it had a customer who had a 
declined claim, but active and accessible information about where his vehicle might be, I
think UKI should have done more to speak to the manufacturer and help Mr S.
If the location was shared, there is still only a possibility that the car could have been 
recovered. But Mr S had no way of obtaining the cars location from the manufacturer, and 
only UKI at that point was able to. So, for UKI to try once and abandon the attempt seems to 
me to show a poor level of customer service.
Ive thought carefully about this because, as Ive said above, I think Mr S was reasonably told about the need to have an active tracking device fitted and he failed to do this. If hed 
had an active tracking device, theres much more likelihood that the car may have been 
recovered quickly when itd been stolen.
So I think Mr S is responsible for much of his own distress in this case, but I think UKIs 
actions in not chasing up the manufacturer contributed to it.
I think UKI has caused him significant distress and inconvenience by not doing more to help 
him during the claim. I intend to ask UKI to pay Mr S additional compensation of £250 for 
this.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr S responded accepting that he didnt have an active subscription to the tracking device. 
He also said the manufacturers device, which is an emergency SOS system, doesnt require 
an active subscription and was operational after the theft. 
He says that the SOS system would effectively function as a tracking device if UKI had acted 
on it, and so it effectively met the requirements of UKIs tracking clause.
He questions whether UKI acted carelessly or recklessly by not speaking to the car 
manufacturer who had access to the GPS data about where the vehicle was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Mr S for the very upsetting experience he has had firstly from the theft 
of his car, and then finding out that UKI declined his claim.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr S points out that I didnt consider some of the 
points hed made. If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not 
commented on every individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching 
what I think is the fair outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
Mr S has maintained his position throughout that he wasnt told during the sales process 
about the requirement for a tracking device to be fitted to the vehicle, and an active 
subscription in place. 
But Ive not seen evidence of this.
The evidence I do have shows me that the IPID, policy schedule and policy wording all 
contained clear references to the fact that a tracking device must be in operation. I said in 
my provisional decision that these were issued to Mr S. Mr S confirmed hed had these, and 
the policy had been in force for nearly a full year before the car was stolen.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss point that the cars emergency SOS system was a 
tracking device. But there are clear differences between a pro-active tracking device and the 
type of SOS system fitted. If the existence of the SOS system was sufficient to conform with 
UKIs (and other insurers) requirements, then I think I can reasonably say that the policy 
document would deal with this decisively.There are mentions in the file saying that Mr S didnt have an active subscription to the SOS 
system either  which is why the car manufacturer wasnt able to share the cars location 
with him.
Having considered all of these points, I dont think Mr Ss contention that the SOS system is 
a tracking device is enough. Ive looked at the manufacturers website and I can see it is a 
service that requires an account to be set up, and for full use of the services a subscription 
needs to be entered into. 
UKIs policy requires the existence and use of a tracking device, with an active subscription, 
and I cant say Mr S has complied with this requirement.
Because I think UKI did tell him about the need for the tracking device, and because Mr S 
didnt comply with its requirements, I cant reasonably ask UKI to pay Mr Ss claim.
I appreciate the scale of Mr Ss loss is substantial and my decision will be a great 
disappointment to him. 
But I do still think UKIs service should have been better, particularly with the abandoned call 
to the car manufacturer. UKI has agreed with this, so my decision to award a total of £300 
for his distress and inconvenience will stand.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I direct UK Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr S a total of £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by its 
claims service. This includes the offer of £50 compensation UK Insurance Limited has 
already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman