DRN-3190520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money they lost when Mrs C fell victim 
to a scam.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were due to fly abroad with their family. However, a mistake had been made 
on the spelling of the name on their daughters ticket. Wanting to rectify that, Mrs C looked 
up the number for the airline and found what she thought was a genuine customer services 
number. It turned out the number was fraudulent, on a fake website and in use by a 
scammer.
Mrs C was told there was a charge for making an amendment to a ticket. And so she 
provided her card details to verify who she was and to enable the charge to be paid. Mrs C 
was required to approve the payment via her banking app. But she was told the payment 
hadnt gone through. What followed was a series of increasing payments, each of which Mrs 
C had to approve via her app, but on each occasion she was told they hadnt gone through. 
And she was told that any difference in the cost of the amendment and the amount taken 
would be refunded to her.
The transactions are as follows:
Date Time Transaction Amount £ Amount $ Balance 
remaining
4/11/2019 10.04am e-commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac£193.77 $250 £2,238.14
4/11/2019 10.07am e-commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac£542.56 $700 £1,695.58
4/11/2019 10.11am e-commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac£1,550.18 $2,000 £145.50
4/11/2019 10.12am Failed e- commerce 
to Sarbatdabhalac£1,544.47 $2,000 £145.50
4/11/2019 10.13am Failed e- 
commerce to 
Sarbatdabhlac£772.23 $1,000 £145.50
4/11/2019 10.14am Failed e- 
commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac£386.12 $500 £145.50
4/11/2019 10.15am Failed e- 
commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac£193.06 $250 £145.50
  4/11/2019  10.21am e-commerce to 
Sarbatdabhalac  £77.22  $100  £68.18
  12/11/2019 n/a Reversed payment £77.22
Mr C noticed the payments going out of their account. He froze his card within the app and 
called Monzo at 10.16am to alert it to payments they hadnt made going out of their account 
- it doesnt appear he was aware Mrs C was making the payments at the time. Monzo 
ordered a new card, but whilst that was happening the final payment went through, which 
was later refunded.
Monzo declined to reimburse the transactions as it said they had been authorised and Mrs C 
hadnt taken reasonable measures to keep her details safe. And it stood by its decision when 
Mr and Mrs C complained.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He concluded the payments were authorised 
but that the third transaction was unusual, uncharacteristic and part of a pattern of payments 
in a very short amount of time that ought to have alerted Monzo to something going wrong. 
He therefore asked Monzo to refund the payment of £1,550.18 plus 8% simple interest. But 
he didnt find the payments prior to that ought to have alerted Monzo to possible fraud.
Monzo disagreed that it should have intervened. But it also pointed out that at each payment 
Mr and Mrs C were sent a series of push notifications showing them payments had been 
made. And even if the push notifications didnt arrive, the feed would have shown the 
payments had been made. And it had previously noted the URL address was not that of the 
airline but an entirely different entity.
The matter was referred to me for review and determination, but I needed further information 
from the parties:
Monzo  when the call from Mr C took place and a recording, a copy of the push 
notifications and copy of what the app would have shown to indicate who was being 
paid. This information has been provided by Monzo (and referenced above).
Mr and Mrs C  Mrs Cs thoughts on being told by the scammer payments werent 
going through but the bank was telling her otherwise. Answer  she trusted the airline 
when being told payments werent going through.
What did Mrs C think when the merchant name was Sarbatdabhalac and not the 
airline? Answer  the airline doesnt always show as that in the app. Examples were 
provided
Why did Mrs C accept an explanation that a larger payment needed to be taken with 
the difference refunded, given most people reasonably understand this isnt how 
genuine merchants operate? Answer  legitimate merchants often charge them and 
reimburse the amount. Examples of this were provided.
Why Mrs C was nervous? Answer  they wanted to ensure their daughter could fly 
with them, and the call kept disconnecting which added to the stress of the situation.
  
I issued my provisional decision on 15 October 2021, reaching a different conclusion to the 
investigator. Monzo has confirmed receipt of the decision and said it has nothing further to 
add. Mr and Mrs C have also received the provisional decision. Although they are 
disappointed with the outcome, as they feel it penalises them for the fraud, they want to 
bring this to a close and so accept the outcome under protest. I have considered the responses to my provisional decision. As no further evidence or 
arguments have been provided and accepting that Mr and Mrs C are disappointed with the 
outcome, I see no reason to alter my provisional findings. I therefore make them final below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C found what she believed to be the airlines website when she searched for it on-line. 
And when she called the number provided, she believed she was speaking with it. When told 
there was a charge for making an amendment to a ticket, Mrs C provided her card details to 
the scammer to carry out a transaction. This likely included the long card number, the expiry 
date, the CVV on the reverse, and when the payment was requested, Mrs C needed to 
confirm it in her app. By proving her card details to the scammer, Mrs C has provided 
apparent authority for transactions to be carried out, each of which she ultimately consented 
to by confirming each transaction in the app.
The payments were therefore authorised even though Mrs C was the victim of a scam. She 
made the payments as set out above. Although she didnt set out to get scammed, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to these transactions, and general 
banking terms and conditions, Mrs C is presumed liable in the first instance.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mrs C consented to the first payment of $250 or £193.77 at 10.04 am. Given the previous 
operation of the account this payment is unremarkable. The account had been used 
previously for similar amounts, and for foreign transactions. Im not persuaded there is 
anything about this transaction that ought to have alerted the bank to potential fraud. And I 
find similar about the second payment for $700 or £542.56 at 10.07am.
However, Im not persuaded the same could be said for the third transaction of $2,000 or
£1550.18 at 10.11 am. I fully accept Monzos point that the account hadnt been in operation 
long and so building up an understanding of the usual pattern of transactions was ongoing. 
But it seems to me its the pattern of transactions on the day that ought to have alerted it to 
the potential for fraud on its customers account. I say this because:
This payment was the third payment to the same person in a matter of minutes. This 
of itself is quite unusual.The amount was far higher than the previous two payments. And was the third on an 
increasing scale. Making a number of increasing payments over a very short space of 
time is a hallmark of fraud, as the scammer will be attempting ever larger 
transactions to obtain as much money as possible in the shortest amount of time.
The payment almost cleared the full balance of the account. Whilst the account has 
been left with low balances before, that has usually been as a result of a culmination 
of transactions over a number of days or weeks, not one day.
I accept that account holders can and do make legitimate transactions that might be unusual 
for them or operate their account in way that might not be typical. But I find the third payment 
was so unusual that Monzo ought to have been put on notice of potential fraud and so make 
further enquiries.
But Monzo didnt make any enquiries or ask any probing questions about why the 
transactions were being made. Had it done so, I have no reason to doubt that Mrs C would 
have told them about their predicament with the flight ticket and that she was constantly 
being told that payments werent going through. Putting to one side any arguments about the 
scammer asking for higher amounts than were needed (which Ill come on to shortly) Monzo 
would, at the very least, have been able to tell Mrs C that her two earlier payments had 
actually gone through, contrary to what she was being told by the scammer. Had it done so, I 
dont think she would have proceeded with the third payment and Mr and Mrs C wouldnt 
have lost £1,550.18.
I have considered that Mrs C was on the phone such that even her husband couldnt contact 
her about the transactions, and so Monzo might not have been able to either. But Monzo 
could have halted the payment until such time as it satisfied itself the payment was for 
genuine goods or services.
Although I have found that Monzo ought to have done more that isnt the end of the matter. I 
have also considered whether Mrs C should bear some responsibility for the situation in 
which they found themselves.
Banks arent the only party responsible for keeping customers money safe  the customer is 
too. And I think Mrs C was in possession of information during this process that ought to 
have alerted her to the risk that she was being scammed.
Mrs C was told there was a charge for amending a ticket. This of itself isnt unusual. But 
when she was told the first payment hadnt gone through and she needed to make a second 
higher payment she ought to have questioned this before simply proceeding. A legitimate 
merchant wouldnt ask a customer to make a payment for a higher amount than was due, 
only to refund the difference. There is no plausible reason for a merchant to do this and I 
think most reasonable people would understand that.
Although Mr C has provided evidence which he believes shows merchants doing this, Im 
afraid it doesnt. The evidence provided shows merchants refunding the actual amount 
taken; it doesnt show legitimate merchants taking higher amounts from their account only to 
refund the difference back.
On each of the transaction requests, Mrs C was sent a push notification asking for 
confirmation of the payment request. I have set out below (two of the notifications from that 
day) what I understand the push notifications to have said:
Tap to approve or cancel your $250 payment at Sarbatdabhalac IN £193.06 ($250) at 
SarbatdabhalacYouve spent £203.06 today.Tap to approve or cancel your $700 payment at Sarbatdabhalac IN £540.56 ($700) at 
SarbatdabhalacYouve spent £743.62 today.
This shows, contrary to what Mrs C was being told by the scammer, that the payments she 
was approving were in fact going through  given the amount she had spent today was 
increasing by comparable amounts. Although Mrs C has told us she believed what she was 
being told, she hasnt provided a plausible reason as to why she gave more credence to 
them than her own bank.
Finally, as can be seen above, the payments werent showing as going to the airline she 
thought she was paying. I fully accept that some merchants show differently to some degree. 
And the information Mr C has provided does show that this particular airlines name isnt 
always shown in full. But it is shown in part along with what appears to be a booking 
reference and a symbol demonstrating the category of holidays. I think there is a substantial 
difference to how other payments to this airline were shown and what Mrs C would have 
seen when making these payments, that she ought to have been on notice she might not 
have been paying the right party.
I find that there was sufficient information in Mrs Cs possession that she ought to realised 
the situation as presented simply wasnt plausible such that she ought to have known there 
was a risk in proceeding. I therefore find that Mrs C is partly responsible for their losses. It 
follows that I dont find it fair for all of the responsibility for their loss to be assigned to the 
bank, or therefore that it should reimburse all losses that flow from the third payment.
Summary
I find the bank should have done more when Mrs C made the third payment request. And as 
such I require it to reimburse some of Mr and Mrs Cs losses. But I also find Mrs C should 
also bear some responsibility for those losses.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Limited to reimburse £775.09 representing 50% of Mr and Mrs Cs losses. I also require it to 
pay interest on that amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman