DRN-3550979
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) did not update his telephone 
number and blocked his account, which resulted in him losing out on interest as he was 
unable to transfer between his accounts.
What happened
For part of the year, Mr B lives overseas. Prior to him travelling overseas, he rang NS&I on 
19 September 2020 in order to change his telephone number. Mr B had been previously 
locked out of his NS&I online access and he knew they would need to ring his telephone 
number in order to reinstate his access to his accounts. 
Mr B says he wanted to transfer money in October 2020 to get the highest rates of interest, 
so it was important that he could gain access to his accounts online while living overseas. 
When Mr B spoke to NS&I, he says that he successfully passed their security questions, but 
when he informed the call handler he wanted to change his telephone number, the call 
handler asked him further security questions, which Mr B couldnt recall the answers. Mr B 
says that the call handler told him he would send a form out for Mr B to change the security 
questions, but Mr B was going overseas the following day, so he wouldnt be able to 
complete the form.
Mr B attempted to login to his account from overseas in October 2020, but his account 
access was blocked. He says the call handler did not inform him that he had blocked his 
accounts as a result of being unable to answer the extra security questions. Mr B rang NS&I 
and spoke with a call handler and his manager in order to rectify the issue, but he says they 
were unable to help him. 
Mr B sent NS&I a letter in late October 2020, but due to being overseas, the letter did not get 
to NS&I until December 2020. NS&I responded and asked Mr B for a proof of signature. Mr 
B says that he gave up trying to rectify the issue until he returned to the UK. But this was 
further complicated by pandemic restrictions based on the country he was residing in at the 
time. Mr B made a complaint to NS&I, explaining his financial loss (including the loss of 
interest for not being able to transfer his account to a higher paying account and his call 
costs from ringing overseas) and having to make an unplanned return to the UK from a 
restricted country during the pandemic.
NS&I initially did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said that they were unable to act upon 
his requests for security reasons. NS&I said if he wanted a temporary password to be sent to 
his overseas address then he would need to complete and return a change of address form 
along with a forgotten security details form. NS&I explained that in order for him to transfer 
money between his accounts, the transfer could be done via a form. 
Mr B had responded to this letter and said that the call handler he spoke to in September 
2020 didnt tell him the account would be blocked and that he told the call handler that he 
was going overseas, so the call handler sending him a form would be useless to him.
NS&I partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. They said they would credit £35 to his bank account 
and they agreed that the call handler could have given him a more thorough and extensive 
explanation of what the next steps were in order to gain access to his account. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. NS&I offered him an additional £50 to resolve his 
complaint, but Mr B rejected this. Our investigator said he thought this offer was fair as NS&I 
had blocked the account after Mr B had failed their security process. Our investigator said 
that NS&I had explained in their response to Mr B what he needed to do in line with their 
terms and conditions.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he had lost out on interest as a result of not being able to log into his 
accounts and transfer money from his account paying 0.01% to his account paying 0.15%. 
He said he made it clear in the letter he sent NS&I (and on the call in October 2020) that his 
intention was to move his funds into the higher paying account from 24 November 2020. 
Mr B said he understood the need for a signature to close an account, but not to make an 
internal transfer. He said that NS&I could have emailed him the form for the proof of 
signature but based on delivery timeframes, it took about six weeks each time for each party 
to receive the other parties correspondence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to the September 2020 phone call that Mr B had with NS&I. While Im satisfied 
that NS&I were entitled to block Mr Bs account based on him failing their security process, I 
agree that NS&I could have explained this to Mr B and set out the next steps clearly. 
But as Mr B was going to be living overseas for six months, the call handler would not have 
been able to change Mr Bs telephone number or address over the phone after he had failed 
the security questions, so NS&I wouldnt have been able to send a temporary password to 
the overseas address. 
On the September call, the call handler did explain to Mr B that he could cash in his 
account by filling in a form online. So Mr B could have had access to the funds in his 
account, even though this was not his desired outcome. The call handler gave Mr B the 
website address to access this form. So the funds did not have to be left in an account 
earning a lower rate of interest as Mr B could have had this money paid to his nominated 
bank account (and then be free to choose to deposit this where he wanted to in order to earn 
more interest). 
Ive then considered what happened when Mr B tried to log into his account in October. As 
he was unsuccessful, he rang NS&I and spoke to a call handler and their supervisor. 
Unfortunately this call is not available for me to listen to, so I cant rely on that here. But I 
dont doubt Mr Bs version of what happened on this call. Mr B says that the call handler and 
the supervisor was unable to help him. I wouldnt expect the call handler/supervisor to 
amend Mr Bs address on the call/update his telephone number considering he previously 
failed security and his account was blocked. Its probable that the staff Mr B spoke to 
encouraged him to complain to try and resolve the situation, but thats what Mr B did the 
following day. Mr B wrote NS&I a letter dated 27 October 2020 and explained the situation. He informed 
them of his temporary address, his telephone number and asked them to send out a new 
password. He also asked if there was a balance on his account on 24 November 2020, for 
them to close the account he specified and to pay this into another of his internal accounts. 
But due to the postal system, NS&I didnt receive this until December 2020. 
As NS&I did not have a copy of Mr Bs signature on file to issue him a new temporary 
password, they sent him a witness signature form to complete in order to act upon his 
instructions. 
But Mr B did not complete the witness signature form which NS&I sent to him (which Mr B 
refers to as NS&I asking for a proof of signature). Based on their internal procedures, they 
needed to receive the witness signature form in order to carry out his requests. So as Mr B 
did not return this to NS&I, they would be unable to act upon his instructions. 
Mr B said on his complaint form to our service that as NS&I had changed his address to his 
temporary address, he gave up at that time until (his) return to the UK. So as Mr B did not 
fill in this document, and return it to NS&I, I cant say that NS&I were responsible for Mr B 
not being able to transfer money into his higher paying account. I know Mr B has said that 
they could have emailed him the form, but Im not persuaded this would have made a 
difference, as when he received the form by post he didnt complete it and send it back. 
So Im not persuaded that NS&I should backdate the interest to 24 November 2020 based 
on Mr B intending to transfer one account to a higher interest paying account on this date (or 
to pay any costs he incurred). I say this as he didnt return the witness signature form that 
NS&I asked him to complete.
Ive considered what would be a reasonable amount of compensation that NS&I should pay 
Mr B for not informing him his account was blocked and for the October call 
handler/supervisor not being able to assist him. I know he thinks they should backdate the 
interest, but as Ive explained, Im not persuaded that this is proportionate, when he didnt 
return a completed witness signature form.
Im satisfied that £85 in total is a fair amount of compensation. I know Mr B will strongly 
disagree with this, but this would recognise the poor customer service he had when he rang 
NS&I, as they were unable to help him and did not tell him his account had been blocked. 
This is broadly in line with what I would have awarded him if NS&I had not offered him any 
compensation. So it follows Ill be asking NS&I to pay the extra compensation they offered.
My final decision
National Savings and Investments has already made an offer to pay an extra £50 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that National Savings and Investments should pay Mr B an extra £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman