DRN-3751790
The complaint
Miss M complains about several transfers from her account with Barclays Bank UK PLC that 
its refused to refund.  
What happened
Miss M made 44 transfers from her bank account to her ex-partner that she says she was 
coerced into making. 
Miss M said her partner convinced her to transfer money to start his own business. Miss M 
says she hasnt been repaid any of the money and has since taken out a restraining order 
against her ex-partner after he made threats to her. 
Miss M asked Barclays to refund the money, but it said it was a civil dispute between her 
and her ex-partner. So, Miss M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator said that as the amounts were small and not unusual activity for the account, 
she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly or done anything wrong when it hadnt agreed to 
stop or refund them. 
Miss M responded to the investigators view and said because of the large amount of money 
she sent, Barclays shouldve noticed and stopped the payments. Our investigator considered 
this point but didnt change their view. 
So, the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying it sounds like Miss M has been through a very tough and 
challenging time, and Im sorry she has found herself in this situation. Its also very clear 
from the information Miss M has given us that she feels very strongly about her complaint. 
Ive read through the information in its entirety, and having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss M, but I hope after 
listening to my reasoning, she will understand how and why I reached my outcome.
Although Barclays are required to process authorised payments as requested by its 
customers, it does have some additional obligations to intervene to protect its customers 
from financial harm due to theft and fraud. 
Banks like Barclays are required to be on the lookout for transactions that have an increased 
risk of being connected with fraud  for example, payments that were unusual or out of 
character. 
The transactions Miss M made were relatively small and, in my opinion, not out of character 
for her account activity or spending. So, Im not convinced that it shouldve been clear to 
Barclays that Miss M was at risk of financial harm or that she was being coerced into making 
the payments. 
I understand Miss M has said that the total amount transferred was large, and that Barclays 
shouldve stopped the payments for that reason. But Miss M has gone on to say that she 
wasnt aware she was being coerced until after her ex-partner left her and she didnt get the 
money back  this is described in her testimony when she says her partner financially 
abused her, but she didnt realise until later. Miss M also thought she was lending the money 
to her ex-partner, and it would be returned later. So even if Barclays had reached out and 
asked Miss M if she were comfortable making the payments, I think its most likely she 
wouldve said yes. 
Miss M said she made Barclays aware that she was coerced into making the payments 
when she raised the complaint. As this was some time after the payments were made, it 
wouldve been too late to stop the money leaving the account. I also dont find it 
unreasonable that Barclays have refused to refund the payments through its fraudulent 
payments process, given the information regarding what the payments were and it being 
clear they were not part of a fraud. 
I understand Miss Ms partner may have made comments about harming himself if he didnt 
start his business. I can only imagine how troubling this mustve been for Miss M to hear, but 
I must look at what Barclays wouldve known or been able to identify about the situation at 
the time. Without Miss M reaching out to Barclays to notify the bank about the position she 
was in, I cant fairly conclude it wouldve been able to identify or stop the payments being 
made. 
Its worth noting that the reference used on the payments was variations of Miss Ms 
partners name. I say this as this further satisfies me that there was no obvious trigger 
Barclays wouldve seen on these payments to put the bank on alert that something may 
have been wrong. 
Miss M has said that she had to take loans to keep up with the payments. Having looked 
through Miss Ms account history, I cant see that she has been in what the business would 
class as financial difficulty. As Im only looking at the complaint against Barclays, and not 
those that lent to her, I dont find that these loans wouldve had any impact on what Barclays 
would be looking out for when monitoring Miss Ms account. I say this as large amounts of 
individuals will take out loans and I wouldnt expect Barclays to contact those individuals to 
ask why. I understand Miss Ms situation in some respects is different, but Im still unable to 
fairly say that Barclays have done anything wrong when it hasnt asked questions regarding 
credits coming in. 
I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss M and that she feels 
strongly about her complaint. But I must look at whether Barclays did anything wrong in 
sending the payments or in failing to step in to carry out checks before allowing them to be 
processed. Overall, Im satisfied that it didnt make any error or act unfairly in doing so. And 
as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Barclays dont need to now refund the money Miss 
M sent to her ex-partner. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman