DRN-4131253
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
handled her chargeback claim.
What happened
Miss M purchased an item online but when it was received it wasnt as described. Miss M 
requested a refund from the retailer and asked to return the item. The retailer didnt provide 
return details and instead offered Miss M a voucher. Miss M said she didnt want a voucher 
and said she wanted to return the item for a refund. Miss M didnt receive a response from 
the retailer so she raised a chargeback with AESEL.
AESEL asked Miss M to provide proof that a refund had been agreed by the retailer and 
applied a temporary credit to her account. The retailer disputed the chargeback and AESEL 
reapplied the amount previously credited to Miss Ms balance and advised Miss M that the 
dispute had been closed in the retailers favour.
Miss M provided evidence to AESEL showing that she had contacted the retailer within 7 
days of receiving the item but hadnt been able to return the item because the retailer hadnt 
provided details of how to return it. Following this, AESEL re-opened the chargeback and 
applied a credit to Miss Ms account.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She said she wasnt sure of the outcome of her 
chargeback claim and said that every time she opened the dispute the transaction was 
credited and then re-applied by AESEL. Miss M said there was total confusion as to whether 
the amount shed paid for the item would be credited to her account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the chargeback should have been found in 
Miss Ms favour the first time because Miss M had evidenced that the wrong item was 
received and that shed been entitled to return the item, but the retailer had failed to facilitate 
this. The investigator said that AESEL hadnt handled the chargeback claim well and had left 
Miss M unsure of the outcome. The investigator said that AESEL should pay compensation 
of £100 to Miss M, along with the credit to her account for the transaction.
AESEL didnt agree. It said that as part of the chargeback investigation, where an item was 
not as described, the item had to be returned. AESEL said that Miss M had provided 
evidence that the item wasnt as described when she made her chargeback claim but said 
she hadnt provided evidence that the retailer had failed to provider return details. AESEL 
said it was only when the chargeback was re-opened that Miss M had brought this evidence 
to light.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against possible chargeback reasons to see what evidence is required and under 
what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for 
the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit claims and will only do so if they believe 
they have evidence which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be successful. This 
service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a 
chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Miss Ms request to AESEL to raise a chargeback to see whether AESEL 
handled the chargeback fairly.
The initial chargeback claim was raised on 14 November 2022. Miss M provided evidence to 
show that the wrong item had been received and that shed contacted the retailer within 7 
days of receiving the item asking for details of how to return the item for a full refund. The 
correspondence between Miss M and the retailer showed that the retailer hadnt provided 
details of how to return the item for a refund and had instead offered a voucher to Miss M, 
which she had made clear that she didnt want.
Ive considered the evidence provided by Miss M to support the initial chargeback claim. 
AESEL has said that Miss M hadnt provided evidence to show that the retailer hadnt 
provided returns details. However, I think Miss M did provide evidence of this. If AESEL had 
considered the correspondence between Miss M and the retailer it would have seen that the 
retailer had failed to respond to a request from Miss M to provide returns details. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think AESEL could have determined the chargeback in Miss Ms favour 
based on the evidence she had supplied.
Although AESEL determined the chargeback in Miss Ms favour when the chargeback was 
re-opened, this was on the basis of the same evidence that Miss M had supplied previously. 
I cant see that Miss M provided any new evidence when the chargeback was re-opened.
Taking everything into account, I think the chargeback could have been handled better by 
AESEL. The chargeback was subject to delays caused by AESEL not considering the 
evidence provided by Miss M properly. This has caused trouble and upset to Miss M for 
which I think its fair to ask AESEL to pay compensation. 
AESEL has told this service that it settled the chargeback on a goodwill basis and credited 
Miss Ms account, but it doesnt appear that Miss M was made aware of this which has 
caused her further confusion. Miss M still isnt clear what sum has been credited (if any) and 
AESEL will need to clarify this with Miss M. I think AESEL should credit the full purchase 
price of the item (if it hasnt done so already). 
Putting things right
To put things right, AESEL must:
Confirm to Miss M that the sum of £87.73 has been credited to her account and provide her 
with a statement showing this
Pay compensation of £100 to Miss M for the trouble and upset caused to her by the handling 
of the chargeback
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
must take the steps Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman