DRN-3387624
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about the cost of a pet insurance policy sold to him by Alpha 
Underwriting Limited.
What happened
Mr N took a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog in February 2020. The policy was sold to 
him by Alpha. Mr N was initially quoted £286.49 for the year but after the policy started, the 
insurer found that Mr N had entered the wrong breed of dog on the online application forms, 
so it increased the price to £825.73, which it says was the correct premium for the correct 
breed of dog. Mr N paid this premium by monthly instalments. 
When the policy was due to renew in February 2021, Mr N was quoted £3,309.20 for the 
year. Mr N said he couldnt afford this and was forced to cancel the cover. He said hed 
taken the policy with the intention to cover his pet for her lifetime, which was now not 
possible. His dog was diagnosed with terminal cancer in April 2020 and he was priced out of 
cover. He wants his policy reinstated at a price in line with the first years premium. 
Alpha said it could offer lower lifetime cover for a lower premium but as it does not set the 
premiums for cover, it could not do anything more.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think that Mr N had been given 
sufficient information about the potential increases in price of the policy when he took it out. 
She recommended that it pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr N accepts the Investigators assessment and has not added anything further. 
Alpha does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
It says:
the renewal price is set by the insurer and so should not be reflected on it as an 
independent broker. 
The insurer wanted to avoid the policy due to the misrepresentation of the breed but 
it agreed to continue the cover (at the higher premium) after Alpha asked it to review 
its position. 
Mr Ns misrepresentation at the outset is being condoned and rewarded and it is 
being penalised.     
It is not clear Mr N would have kept the policy anyway, as eight months into the 
policy, he missed a premium payment due to financial difficulties, and it was agreed 
this would be deducted from the claim payment.
The Investigator explained the compensation she recommended was not to do with the 
misrepresentation of the dogs breed but simply about whether sufficient information had 
been given to Mr N when he took out the policy that the premiums of this policy could 
increase in the significant way that they did when it renewed in 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alpha Pets is an insurance broker and intermediary, not an insurer. So it sells policies and
might help with their administration but doesn't provide the cover itself, which is the
responsibility of the insurer. Alpha does not therefore set the premium. I am only therefore 
addressing the sale of the policy and can make no decision about the fairness or otherwise 
of the policy cover and the premium itself. This has already been the subject of a separate 
complaint against the insurer. 
In any event, it is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the
premium that they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer
presents. We have no power to make an insurer lower its charges. Similarly, individual
consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they wish to take insurance
with, or not take insurance at all (unless its a requirement, legal or otherwise).
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any
medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment, for when the policy was taken out or
renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered. But lifetime
policies like the one Mr N took out, will cover any conditions they develop on an ongoing
basis for the rest of their lives, as long as the policy continues. The pet is usually covered
up to a set amount each year, until the policy limit is reached and on renewal of the policy,
the limit is then refreshed. Providing this cover is expensive, so they tend to be more
expensive than other types of pet insurance on the market, and the yearly cost of these
lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the
premium could be and I cant impose one.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover
being provided, the cost and any significant terms or conditions. The information provided to
the buyer must put them in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to
take the policy. To fulfil this responsibility, we would expect a seller to explain clearly any
significant terms. This may be verbally or by providing clear documentation. In relation to a
lifetime pet policy, we would expect the information about the cost of the policy to include the
potential for significant increases in the price, given the specific type of cover being provided.
This means that while the insurer is normally responsible for the policy documentation, Alpha 
has an obligation to further explain anything which is not sufficiently clear in the documents
produced by the insurer. There is mention in the policy document of possible future premium
increases. On page 21 and 22 of the policy document, it says that the premium might 
increase as a result of any claims made. I do not think this on its own was sufficient to inform 
Mr N of the potential long-term cost implications of this type of policy, and the potential for 
premiums to increase as significantly as they did here. 
I need to now consider what difference it would have made, if any, to Mr Ns position if he
had been given sufficiently clear information about this when he first took out the policy.
Mr N didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. But
those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered with
a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if a
pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place. In this instance it seems Mr N was looking for a lifetime policy. And as premium rises of this 
type are common across the market I think its likely that Mr N would have still bought this 
policy, as thats the type of policy he was looking for. And, as mentioned, his dog has a 
terminal condition, which hed likely have had to pay for himself if he had chosen not to take 
the policy. 
Overall therefore, I don't think hed have done much different even if Alpha had given him 
more information at the point of sale. Hed either have not taken the policy, but would have 
had to bear the cost of treatment of any ongoing conditions himself, or he would have still 
taken this or another lifetime policy.
Mr N says he is being priced out of the market and this is unfair. However, as stated insurers
are entitled to set their own prices and it is not unfair or unreasonable that they increase
those to reflect the risk they are taking on. I understand that Mr N had to make a difficult 
decision to no longer insure his dog, as he could not afford the renewal premium, but that is 
not as a result of anything Alpha did wrong. Alpha suggests Mr N may have had difficulty 
keeping the policy, even if the premium had not increased, but I do not consider this has 
been established. Mr N might have taken the decision to continue the policy, if the premium 
had stayed the same, even if it was a financial struggle given his dogs health condition at 
that time, but the increase in premium was so significant this was not possible. 
However, I do understand that the significant increase in premium in 2021 came as 
something of a shock to Mr N, and if Alpha had given him more information at the outset 
about the likely effect of claims on premiums, then he wouldn't have been so surprised by 
the increase. So I agree with the Investigator that some compensation is appropriate to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused. I also agree that the sum of £350 is 
appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Alpha Underwriting Limited and require it to pay Mr N the 
sum of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman