DRN-3417064
Complaint
Mrs E and X have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs E and X bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs E and X into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs E and Xs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs E and X, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Mrs E and X settled their loan early by taking a 
refinance loan with an alternative provider. Our adjudicator said Shawbrook should also take 
into account the refinance loan in order to fully compensate Mrs E and X for their losses. 
Shawbrook agreed to our adjudicators findings and said it would make an offer to settle the 
case in accordance with our established approach to redress where loans were settled early 
using refinance. However, it has not done so  and despite multiple chasers, Shawbrook has 
not made an offer. 
As the case hasnt been settled, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
As Shawbrook has already agreed with our adjudicators findings that the solar panels were 
misrepresented to Mrs E and X, I do not need to consider that here. I will only decide how 
the case should now be settled. 
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Mrs E and X
Shawbrook agreed to compensate Mrs E and X for both the Shawbrook loan as well as the 
refinance loan they took with an alternative provider to settle their Shawbrook loan early. I 
can see Shawbrook said it had all the information it needed to work out redress but only 
asked Mrs E and X to confirm the settlement figure for their refinance loan to enable it to 
complete the redress calculation. Mrs E and X have confirmed the settlement figure of their 
refinance loan, but no offer has been forthcoming from Shawbrook. Shawbrook has not 
provided us with an explanation as to why it hasnt settled the case in accordance with our 
established approach to these types of cases. 
I can see no reason why Shawbrook hasnt settled this case as it agreed to do. So having 
thought about everything, and as previously explained by our adjudicator,  I think that it 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs E and Xs complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mrs E and X from the solar panels over the 15 year term of 
the loan so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, and any 
future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs E and X have paid more than they should have, 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse Mrs E and X accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs E and X by way of explanation.  
As previously explained, Mrs E and X have settled their loan by refinancing and have 
supplied evidence of the refinance to Shawbrook, so Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs E and X paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs E and X receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs E and X paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs E and X receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mrs E and X the difference between the amount now owed and the amount they 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs E and X first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs E and Xs complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman