DRN-3200811
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Allied World Assurance Company 
(Europe) dac (Allied World) have unfairly declined its claim for professional indemnity 
insurance. 
Mr L, who is a director of L, brings the complaint on Ls behalf. For ease of reading, Ill 
mostly refer to Mr L, where I mean his company L. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some key events here.
Between February 2017 and February 2019 Mr L held professional indemnity insurance with 
Allied World.  Following on from this, Mr L purchased a policy from a different insurer Ill refer 
to as H.  
In January 2018, one of Mr Ls clients sought help to apply for a benefit under a government 
scheme. However, the deadline was missed and the application rejected. Mr L appealed that 
decision without success. I understand a further application was successfully submitted. But 
by the time this happened, the benefit under the government scheme had reduced. 
In February 2020, Mr L received a letter from a solicitor acting for this client. It claimed 
around £2,000,000 in damages, which it said was a result of Ls negligence in missing the 
deadline. Mr L made a claim to his insurer at the time, H. 
H declined the claim for a variety of reasons, which included that Mr L ought to have known 
that the circumstances surrounding the missed deadline for his client were likely to give rise 
to a claim against him. And as that had happened prior to the inception of the policy with 
them in February 2019, it wasnt something they would cover. 
Following a complaint to H and the involvement of our service, Mr L also made a claim to 
Allied World in February 2021. Allied World also declined the claim. The crux of their reason 
was that the policy they provided was a claims made policy. They said this means cover 
was only available for claims notified to them within the period of cover. As the relevant 
policy expired in February 2018 and the claim was made in February 2021, they said they 
were unable to assist. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. In 
summary, she acknowledged that Mr L ought to have notified Allied World of a situation 
which might lead to a claim in January 2018. But she didnt think Mr Ls failure to do so had 
caused any prejudice to Allied World. So she recommended that Allied World consider the 
claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy as if it had been notified within 
the period of insurance. 
Allied World disagreed. They said the policy was clear that it operated on a claims made 
basis. They didnt agree that they should consider the claim and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision. 
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ls policy schedule says: This is a claims made policy. Except as otherwise provided 
herein, this Policy covers only Claims first made against You during the Period of Cover. 
It goes on to say:
6.1 Notification
It is a condition precedent to liability under this Policy that You shall notify Us in writing as 
soon as practicable and no later than 3 months after Knowledge or Detection and in any 
event no later than the end of the Period of Cover of any:
a) Claim made against You;
b) Circumstance that might give rise to a Claim against You whether or not You believe 
the Claim that may arise there from has any merit or is valid;
c) Notice of any intention to make a Claim against You
Any subsequent Claim arising out of matters notified under Sections 6.1(b) and 6.1(c) shall 
in each case be deemed to have been a Claim made during the Period of Cover.
The term circumstance is given a specific definition in the policy of An incident, occurrence, 
fact, matter, act or omission that might give rise to a Claim.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that when the application of Mr Ls client 
was declined on the basis of a missed deadline in January 2018, this was a circumstance 
that might give rise to a claim. And if Mr L wanted to rely on his policy to cover him in the 
event that a claim materialised, he was required by the terms of his policy to report this to 
Allied World. Had he done so, the above term makes clear that if a claim later arose (as 
proved to be the case), it would have been deemed as a claim made within the period of 
cover. 
However, my role allows me to consider not only the policy terms, but also what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. Our investigator thought this 
was an occasion where it would be fair and reasonable for Allied World to consider the claim 
notwithstanding this claims made term.  
But if Im going to require an insurer to provide cover in circumstances that are outside of the 
policy terms, there must be a good argument for doing so based on fairness. Commonly this 
is to avoid an insured being treated unfairly when they have had continuous cover (with 
different insurers) and a claim is being declined by both. Typically, the first insurer would say 
the policy is claims made and the second would say the insured event pre-dates their 
cover. There is often a strong argument that the fair outcome in such cases is that one of the 
insurers should accept the claim. But that is based on there being continuous, uninterrupted, 
like for like cover. 
Mr Ls policy with Allied World says: Insuring Clause
2.1 We agree to indemnify You against Your liability for any Claim first made against You 
and notified to Us during the Period of Cover in accordance with Claim Condition 6.1 in 
respect of any:
a) Negligence arising from Your Professional Activities and Duties performed by or on 
Your behalf;
b) Unintentional breach of confidentiality or misuse of information; or
c) Infringement of intellectual property rights which shall include copyright, patent, 
trademark or acts of passing off,
Arising from any act, error or omission by You or any of Your Employees in the conduct of 
Your Professional Business. 
This contrasts with Mr Ls policy with H which says:
If during the period of insurance, and as a result of your business activityany party:
1. Brings a claim against you for:
a. Negligence or breach of a duty of care arising from the performance of any 
design or specification, feasibility study, technical information calculation or 
survey performed by you or on your behalf by sub-contractors;
b. Infringement of intellectual property rights including copyright, trademark or moral 
rights or any act of passing-off;
c. Breach of a confidence or misuse of any information, which is either confidential 
or subject to statutory restrictions on its use:
d. Failure to warn that there is a deficiency in any design undertaken by another 
party; or
2. Refers to a dispute arising directly from matters covered above to adjudication under 
the Housing Grants Construction and Regeneration Act 1996 or any similar or 
successor legislation;
we will indemnify you
Allied Worlds policy covers a broad range of professional duties; in contrast, the policy with 
H is specific to those duties referenced above. As such, whilst Mr L has had continuous 
professional indemnity insurance, I cant say that the cover is on a like for like basis. The 
alleged negligence relevant to the underlying claim wasnt in relation to the performance of 
design, technical information calculations or similar. Rather, it was in relation to an 
administrative issue  the alleged failure to submit an application prior to a deadline. 
Mr L didnt (upon expiry of his Allied World policies), continue to insure himself against a 
claim of such negligence being made against him. Because of this, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think there is any reason to require Allied World to consider the claim 
outside the terms of the policy. And for this reason, Im not intending to ask Allied World to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Beyond acknowledging receipt, Allied World didnt provide a response to my provisional 
decision. Mr L made some further submissions which Ill address below. Now both parties 
have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the further submissions is that Mr L believes that like for like cover was 
maintained. Hes pointed out that Professional Activities and Duties is a defined term in the 
policy. Specifically the definition says:
The performance by You of any professional
Design or specification,
Supervision of construction,
Feasibility study,
Technical information calculation, 
Surveying,
Training,
Safety management,
Materials measurement,
Materials testing,
Commissioning management,
Quality assurance consultancy for third parties for which a fee is charged,
Contract Management, 
Project co-ordination,
Project management,
Construction management,
Appointment as a Planning Supervisor as defined in the Construction (Design and 
Management) Regulations 1994,
Undertaken only by or under the direction and direct control of an Approved Person.
These are what I was referring to as a broad range of professional activities in my 
provisional decision. The negligence alleged by Ls client was in relation to a missed 
deadline when submitting an application for a government benefit. Had Mr L notified Allied 
World of this in January 2018, this is potentially something that would have been covered 
under the headings of either Project co-ordination or management from the list above. The 
policy with H is more restrictive and doesnt offer such cover.
Ultimately Mr Ls claim to Allied World wasnt notified during the period of cover (which is a 
requirement under the policy) and so it isnt covered. And in the circumstances here, Mr L 
didnt continue to insure himself against a claim made against L for negligence surrounding 
the missed deadline. 
I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr L to familiarise himself with the terms of his policy 
and to keep to its conditions if seeking to benefit from the cover  particularly as the 
circumstances here relate to a business engaged in commercial activity. And given Mr L 
didnt continue to insure himself against the risk of the claim that later materialised (following 
his change of insurer), I dont think Allied World need to do more. As I said in my provisional 
decision, for me to tell an insurer to cover a claim outside the policy terms, there must be a 
strong argument for doing so based on fairness. Im not persuaded such an argument exists 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman