DRN-3102123
The complaint
Mrs M complained that she was wrongly advised by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to contribute to a personal pension plan rather than to join her employers pension 
scheme. She believes that she has lost financial benefits and that Prudential should have 
reviewed the advice she received annually.
What happened
Between 1 August 1988 and 10 January 1993, Mrs M was eligible to join a Defined Benefit 
(DB) pension scheme through her employer (C) with a retirement age of 65. Both she and 
her employer would have made contributions to the scheme during this time, and retirement 
benefits would have been indexed linked. Mrs M did not join this pension scheme.
Mrs M received financial advice from Prudential on 8 March 1989, following which she began 
making payments into a personal pension policy provided by Prudential.
In October 1994, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), the regulator at the time, 
instructed authorised firms to review certain pension business, including pension advice 
where customers were not advised to join an available occupational pension scheme 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994. This was generally known as the "Pensions 
Review".
This review was not intended to act as a complaints process, but consumers whose 
pensions were included in its remit were invited to have the effect of the advice they had 
received on their pension arrangements reviewed. Such reviews were undertaken by 
providers at a specific point in time and were not intended to be carried out on an ongoing 
basis.
The advice given to Mrs M in 1989 was reviewed in November 2000. On 14 March 2001, 
Prudential sent Mrs M a letter explaining that the review had concluded that she had not 
suffered a loss as a result of the advice to start a personal pension with Prudential rather 
than to join the DB scheme. 
The review also covered two other periods of employment where Mrs M would again have 
been eligible to join the employers scheme but discovered no loss to her from having a 
personal pension at the same time. Mrs M did not complain about these to our service.
Mrs M complained to Prudential in early 2021 about the advice received in 1989, and asked 
whether the DB benefits she would have been entitled to had she joined the DB scheme with 
C when she was eligible to would be more valuable than the personal pension contributions 
she made during that period.
Prudential wrote to her on 23 February 2021 to explain that the pension review was only 
required to be undertaken once, and the calculations were carried out using the method laid 
down by the SIB using information available in November 2001 and that consequently they 
were unable to uphold her complaint.
Mrs M then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, stating that she did not 
understand the calculations Prudential had provided and did not recall receiving the outcome 
letter in March 2001.
Our investigator reviewed all the information provided and reached the conclusion that the 
Mrs Ms complaint should not be upheld. Mrs M disagreed, so its been passed to me to take 
a fresh look at all the evidence and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for her, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
The most important fact to consider here is that the Pensions Review which was initiated by 
the SIB and carried out by pension providers operated to a strict method and was based 
upon the information available to providers at that time. Prudential have provided the 
calculations they undertook in November 2000 and which I have reviewed. I can find no fault 
with their conclusion that, at the time of the review, Mrs M had not financially lost outby 
setting up a personal pension rather than joining her then employers scheme. Based on 
this, I cant see that Prudential has done anything wrong here.
Prudential were able to provide a copy of the outcome letter sent to Mrs M in March 2001, so 
I think that its reasonable to assume that she did receive a copy, even if she does not recall 
it.
Mrs M says she doesnt understand how a DB pension can be deemed less beneficial than a 
personal pension. And I understand her concerns. However, what the pension review 
calculations did was to compare the value of the DB pension compared to her personal 
pension. The contributions Mrs M lost out on by not joining her DB scheme are factored in 
when calculating these values. The regulator provided firms with assumption on returns, 
interest rates etc. they needed to use for their calculations. And based on these assumptions 
at the time of the review the calculations showed Mrs M had not lost out by not joining her 
DB scheme and was in fact slightly better off in the personal pension. 
Turning now to Mrs Ms belief that the review should have been repeated annually in later 
years, there was no requirement for it to do so under the terms of the original pension 
review. Once a review was undertaken, it was meant to draw a line under the matter. 
Providing the review a had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance at the time, 
which in this case I think it was, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Prudential to 
review the matter afresh 20 years later
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I will not be asking 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman