DRN-3806685
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way a balance transfer he made has been handled by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr W transferred a balance from another credit card to one with Barclaycard. 
The balance was due to be interest free until September 2019 provided all repayments were 
made on time. Mr W received a letter dated 8 March 2018 saying a direct debit had been set 
up to take the full amount. But as hed asked for only the minimum payment to be taken, he 
complained to Barclaycard to have it corrected. Barclaycard changed his direct debit and 
wrote to Mr W confirming his complaint was resolved but didnt confirm the amendment.
Following this, the payment due in April 2018 wasnt made, so Barclaycard began charging 
interest on the balance as the terms of the promotional deal had been broken. Mr W says he 
was unaware of the problem until much later.
In June 2020, Mr W complained to Barclaycard that hed been charged interest. He said hed 
never received confirmation that his direct debit had been changed in 2018. He also 
mentioned a call hed made to Barclaycard during which hed failed security as the call 
handler said hed got his own name wrong.
Barclaycard said it had tried to collect the payment due in April 2018 by direct debit, but it 
had failed due to insufficient funds. It said the terms of the transfer had been broken, which 
meant it was entitled to charge interest on the sum outstanding. But it acknowledged it had 
failed to send a letter confirming the direct debit terms had changed. As a gesture of good 
will, it paid Mr W £50 and refunded half of the interest charged between the missed payment 
and the end of the promotional period - a refund of £292.78.
Mr W was unhappy with Barclaycards response, so he referred his complaint to us. We 
established that we could not look at the original complaint regarding the direct debit initially 
being set up to collect the full repayment. Barclays had responded to that in 2018, but Mr W 
hadnt referred it to us in time. But we could look at the remaining issues surrounding the 
missed payment in April 2018, the interest charged, the failed security and the impact this 
had on Mr W. He explained that since these problems, other credit card providers had 
reduced his limits or withdrawn cards altogether.
One of our investigators looked into those issues. He reached the view that Barclaycard 
hadnt attempted to collect the April 2018 payment. So he said it should treat the account 
and Mr Ws credit file as if that payment had been made. In other words, it should refund all 
interest charged during the promotional period (March 2018 to September 2019) and remove 
any late payment marker added to Mr Ws credit file in respect of that missed payment. He 
said Barclays should pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him as a result of 
this mistake and the call in which he failed the security check. 
However, our investigator didnt agree with Mr Ws view that other creditors had reduced or 
withdrawn his facilities due to the mistakes by Barclaycard. He said he thought it more likely 
the facilities had changed because Mr W had cancelled his direct debit to Barclaycard in 
September 2020 and not made any further payments. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He said, in summary:
There were exceptional circumstances which meant he didnt refer his first complaint 
to us.
He felt it was reasonable for him to stop paying Barclaycard from September 2020 
onwards as Barclaycard had breached the contract.
Had Barclaycard not breached the contract, he wouldnt have found himself in the 
position he is now with limited access to credit. 
The compensation of £300 is too low for the trouble and upset hes experienced. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ws reasons for not complaining to us sooner about the direct debit initially 
being set up incorrectly. He gave us that information when we were initially discussing our 
jurisdiction earlier in this process. While I have every sympathy for the circumstances Mr W 
has been through, my decision remains unchanged in that regard. As explained however, I 
can deal with the other issues hes raised. 
There is no dispute that Mr Ws balance transfer to Barclaycard didnt go smoothly. 
Barclaycard made a mistake at the outset which may have led to the problem with the first 
payment in April 2018. It said it attempted to claim under a direct debit, but that Mr Ws bank 
returned it unpaid for insufficient funds. But Mr Ws bank has provided evidence that it didnt 
receive a claim and that he did have sufficient funds at the time. So it seems more likely than 
not that a problem occurred which meant the Barclays didnt make the claim properly. 
If the claim had been made properly (as all subsequent payments were), Mr W wouldnt 
have paid interest on the balance until the promotional rate expired in September 2019. It is 
right therefore, that Barclaycard should refund any interest charged in that promotional 
period, and remove any detrimental information recorded at the credit reference agencies 
during that period.
Mr W continued to make payments until September 2020. He didnt arrange to transfer the 
balance away from Barclaycard or, from what hes told us attempt to pay off the balance by 
other means. So he would always have incurred interest on the balance after September 
2019 when the promotional terms expired. On that basis it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to tell Barclaycard to refund interest after that.
Mr W has since told us of problems hes encountered with other financial services providers. 
Given what hes told us about his payment history with them and the timing, Ive no reason 
to suspect that these problems occurred as a result of the missed payment in April 2018. 
Mr W cancelled his direct debit to Barclaycard at the end of September 2020. He says he 
feels Barclaycard had broken the contract it had with him, so he felt it was reasonable to 
stop making payments. I dont agree; let me explain why. 
Mr W entered a contract with Barclaycard for it to lend him money on the basis that hed 
make a minimum monthly repayment. Barclaycard lent him that money, so its right that he should repay it. As Ive said already, the transaction didnt go smoothly at the beginning  a 
payment was missed through no fault of Mr Ws and Ill be instructing Barclaycard to put that 
right. But that doesnt mean that its fair or reasonable for Mr W to stop making repayments 
on money hes borrowed. I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for Mr Ws decision to stop 
making payments, or for the problems hes had as a result of that decision. 
Putting things right
I have thought carefully about the level of award to make to Mr W in view of the problems 
hes experienced. Its clear that he was asked to pay interest while he was on the 
promotional rate. That, and the other issues he complained about in June 2020 will no doubt 
have caused him some distress, and I think a payment of £300 is reasonable in that regard. 
Mr W is seeking a much higher award due to the problems hes now experiencing. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, I think those problems stem from his decision to stop making 
payments, rather than the mistakes Barclaycard made at the outset. I think Barclaycard 
should:
Remove any late payment or other adverse markers added to Mr Ws credit file 
during the period of the promotional offer. 
Refund interest as if the promotional offer wasnt affected by the April 2018 payment.
Pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman