DRN-4378702
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy for cancellation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out the policy in January 2023 for a trip starting on 27 March 2023. In 
early March 2023 they discovered that Mrs A was pregnant. They were concerned about 
travelling due to the risk of Zika virus at their destination and so Mrs A contacted her GP and 
says she was advised against going. They contacted AWP and were asked to provide a 
letter from the GP in support of their claim for cancellation. The subsequent doctors letter 
said that: She was advised to follow government guidance on travel as (country) is 
considered a destination with risk. AWP didnt think the letter was sufficient and so declined 
the claim on the basis that the reason for cancelling wasnt covered under the policy terms.
Our investigator thought that AWP had acted reasonably in declining the claim. Mr and Mrs 
A disagree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on AWP by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the requirement 
for AWP to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
Ive also considered the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs A held, as this forms the basis of 
contract between the parties. There are several terms within the policy which I consider 
relevant to their complaint.
Firstly, let me say I am very sympathetic to the situation Mr and Mrs A found themselves in, 
and understand why, ultimately, they decided not to go ahead with their trip. But I need to 
consider whether the circumstances mean AWP should accept the claim for the costs of 
their unused travel.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, Im satisfied AWP had acted in line 
with the policy terms. Let me explain:
The reason for cancelling their trip  due to concerns about the potential risk of 
contracting Zika virus  is not something covered under the cancellation terms 
within the policy.
At the time they cancelled their holiday, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) was not advising travellers against all or all but 
essential travel to their destination country. This FCDO term is a specific term 
referenced in the policy. The FCDO travel advice was to take steps to avoid mosquito 
bites.
The FCDO web page also provided a link to the National Travel Health Network 
which gives wide-ranging advice including suggesting that pregnant women consider 
avoiding travel until after the pregnancy, but it goes on to give similar precautionary 
advice about taking steps to avoid mosquito bites.
I have carefully considered the letter from Mr and Mrs As GP. The letter did not 
advise Mrs A not to travel. The doctors note advised Mrs A that she should follow 
FCDO advice. And, as Ive already explained, that advice only says to consider 
postponing travel but to take precautions against mosquito bites.
The policy specifically states that someone isnt covered for cancellation if the reason 
is you not wanting to travel. That is essentially what has happened here, even 
though it was for very understandable reasons.
As I have said, I have a great deal of sympathy for the position that Mr and Mrs A found 
themselves in. Im sure it seems harsh that AWP has declined their claim, despite their 
extremely valid reasons for cancelling. But, as our investigator has said, insurance policies 
dont cover every scenario. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs A have said. 
But, on balance, I consider it was fair and reasonable for AWP to decline the claim, in 
accordance with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs A would also like reimbursement of the £50 they paid for the doctors note. But 
its reasonable of AWP to expect them to provide medical evidence in support of the claim at 
their own cost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman