DRN-4393768
The complaint
Ms W had a pension with a provider which Ill refer to as provider S in my decision. Provider 
S is now part of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). So Prudential is 
responsible for this complaint. 
Ms W complains that Prudential sent the wrong information to another provider during a 
pension transfer. And that it refuses to accept that the pension plan she held with it was a 
Section 32 pension which contained guarantees. She feels shes suffered a financial loss as 
a result. 
Further, Ms W complains that if Prudential continues to insist that her plan wasnt a Section 
32 pension, she feels provider S/Prudential fraudulently accepted the transfer of her 
pension, as it wouldnt have complied with the transfer conditions of her company pension. 
Ms W told this service that a previous complaint shed brought to us had been ruled out of 
our jurisdiction because of information she is now relying on in this complaint. She therefore 
expects this service to be consistent in its use of the information supplied. However, I can 
only comment on this complaint. I wont be making any reference to the previous one. 
What happened
Ms W had a pension plan with Prudential.
On 10 July 1992, her company pension provider wrote to Ms Ws financial adviser. The letter 
said it would be prepared to pay a transfer value on Ms Ws behalf to either an Occupational 
Pension Scheme or to a Section 32 policy. The letter said that if these conditions were met, 
it would be prepared to pay a transfer value (TV) of £19,350, including £5,976 in respect of 
Protected Rights (PR), on Ms Ws behalf. The letter stated that the TV could be subject to 
revision pending official confirmation of the GMP amounts involved. 
The letter went on to state that: Payment can also be made into a Personal Pension Plan. 
And included estimated values for the GMP. 
Ms W said she was then advised by her financial adviser to transfer her company pension to 
a Section 32 policy to provider S. 
Ms Ws adviser wrote to her on 10 August 1992 to sum up her benefits in her company 
pension and what they might be at age 60. He also explained in this letter that Ms Ws 
company pension provider was prepared to pay a TV estimated at £19,350, of which £5,976 
was PR. 
Ms W said that her company pension was only transferred to provider S on the basis that it 
would be transferred to a Section 32 policy. I understand that the pension transferred in 
1993.
Parts of the original application form have been provided to this service. This showed it was 
an: application to transfer benefits to a personal pension.
Ms W signed the declaration on the application form on 20 July 1992. The first point in the 
declaration stated: I apply for membership of [provider S] Personal Pension Scheme. The 
form itself contained information about the Protected Rights Amount  it said this was the 
cash equivalent of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) that was included in the 
transfer value. 
Ms W said her policy with provider S was taken over by Prudential. She said it was then 
transferred to a new provider in 2012. 
Ms W said she was contacted by the financial network for her financial adviser  who Ill 
refer to as business S - in 2015. She said it told her that she may have lost benefits on the 
transfer of her Prudential pension to her new provider.  
When business S was investigating the pension transfer, it asked Prudential for information. 
Prudential sent business S a letter dated 12 October 2015 which stated: guaranteed annuity 
rate, guaranteed pension and guaranteed cash sum are not applicable to this plan. 
Following completion of the investigation, Ms W questioned the decision. She provided what 
she felt was evidence that the policy was a Section 32 policy. 
Ms W felt that business S has used the information from Prudential in its investigation, 
despite holding evidence on its own computer systems that her pension did have 
guarantees.
Ms W said that investigator Ss systems confirmed that her policy with Prudential was a 
Section 32 pension. And that emails and reports shed received from her adviser also 
confirmed this. She also said that regulatory review paperwork additionally confirmed the 
pension as a Section 32 pension.
Ms W said that on 11 October 2021, she asked Prudential to provide her with all of the data 
it held on her Section 32 policy.
On 13 February 2022, Ms W complained to Prudential about the transfer. She felt it hadnt 
provided her with all of the data it held on her Section 32 policy. And that the data shed 
been sent was incomplete and incorrect. She said that Prudential had sent incorrect 
information to business S in response to a regulatory pension investigation. Ms W also 
complained that shed had problems getting through to Prudential by phone. And felt that itd 
taken longer than it should to provide the information shed requested.
Ms W felt that Prudential shouldve kept full and correct details about her Section 32 policy. 
And that its failure to do so had caused her to lose a significant amount of redress following 
the negligent transfer of her policy. She wanted Prudential to put things right. She said if 
Prudential still felt that her policy wasnt a Section 32 policy with a GMP, then provider S 
/Prudential had fraudulently accepted the transfer as it hadnt complied with the transfer 
conditions of her company pension. 
On 4 March 2022, Prudential issued its final response to the complaint. It upheld Ms Ws 
complaint about the service difficulties shed faced. And offered her £200 as an apology for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. But it said there was no evidence to suggest that it 
had been asked to pay the transfer into a Section 32 policy. Prudential said itd accepted the 
transfer on the basis it was proposed, which was for a personal pension. It also said there 
was no GMP. So it didnt agree that it had fraudulently accepted the transfer.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Ms W further complained on 17 March 2022. She felt 
shed provided it with evidence that her company pension was to be paid into a Section 32 policy. And she still felt Prudential hadnt provided all of the information it held on her policy. 
Prudential issued a further final response letter on 5 April 2022. It said itd fully considered all 
of the information Ms W had provided. And repeated that the pension Ms W had held with it 
was a personal pension, not a Section 32 policy. 
Prudential felt it had responded as fully as it could to Ms Ws complaints and referred her to 
this service if she was still unhappy.  
Ms W wrote to Prudential again on 16 June 2022 with a further complaint. She said shed 
experienced a number of service issues including receiving correspondence which made no 
sense, failing to get through by phone in a timely fashion and the inability of internal teams to 
transfer calls to other departments.
Prudential issued a final response to the complaint on 12 July 2022. It said it had incorrectly 
issued an internal letter to her on the back of her request for further information about her 
policy. It apologised for this error. And for the service issues Ms W had faced. And offered 
her £150 compensation as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
On 5 September 2022, Ms W wrote to Prudential again about her original complaint. She still 
felt her pension had a GMP and that she had evidence to prove this. She asked it to supply 
further information about her policy. 
Ms W complained to Prudential again on 18 October 2022. She said that she had further 
evidence showing that it had accepted her pension was a Section 32 policy. This included a 
Prudential pension statement from July 2004 which said that certain benefits must be used 
to buy a pension which couldnt be taken before age 60. And that a 50% spouses benefit 
would need to be included.
Prudential issued another final response letter on 27 October 2022. It didnt agree that it had 
provided Ms W with conflicting information about the guarantees on her policy, or that itd 
failed to send her all the information shed requested.
Ms W didnt think Prudential had covered all aspects of her complaint. So she wrote to it 
again on 7 November 2022. She felt it hadnt provided any evidence to support its reasons 
for rejecting her complaint. 
Prudential wrote to Ms W on 18 November 2022. It said it had done everything it could to 
respond to her concerns and that it wouldnt engage in any further correspondence with her 
about her complaint. It also issued its last final response letter on the complaint, confirming 
the same points, on 21 November 2022.
Ms W first brought her complaint to this service in April 2023. 
Our investigator asked Ms W when shed first became aware that Prudential had provided 
information about her policy not having a GMP. And what had made her become aware of 
this.
Ms W said she wasnt aware that her Prudential policy had a GMP until August 2022. 
Prudential consented to this service investigating the merits of the complaint. So our 
investigator went on to do so.
Our investigator didnt feel that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the evidence 
showed that Ms W hadnt applied for a Section 32 policy. And that no GMP had been transferred to Prudential. She felt that Prudential had acted fairly in providing the information 
about the plan.
Ms W didnt think that our investigator had addressed a number of mistakes Prudential had 
made during its correspondence with her. And felt that shed provided evidence which 
proved her pension had been a Section 32 policy. 
Ms W said it seemed fortunate for Prudential that the application form that our investigator 
had based her decision on was incomplete. She felt it was unfair to assume that Prudential 
hadnt accepted the liability for GMP on the transfer on this basis.
Ms W felt that her company scheme wouldnt have transferred her pension to another 
company if the rules for pension transfer hadnt been met. She said it wouldnt have been 
allowed, under the rules of the scheme, to transfer her company pension to a plan which 
didnt meet the requirements for the transfer of pension funds. And that this wouldve meant 
it needed future assurance on the transfer of her GMP.
Our investigator told Ms W that although shed considered all of the evidence shed provided 
in support of her view that her pension was a Section 32 policy, shed concluded that it 
wasnt persuasive in comparison to other available evidence in this case. She also explained 
that neither she, nor I, could comment on whether the company pension provider had failed 
to transfer Ms Ws company pension correctly, as the complaint was against Prudential. 
Ms W felt that Prudential didnt appear to have any information on the terms of accepting her 
pension transfer apart from the application form. She said that as the form was incomplete, 
there was no evidence about whether the pension was accepted on these terms or altered.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms W. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Whilst I may not have responded to each individual point Ms W has raised, I can assure Ms 
W that I have carefully considered all of them in reaching this decision.
Whats in dispute here is whether Ms Ws pension with provider S was a Section 32 policy or 
not. And whether it received a transfer of the GMP from her company pension or not. If I 
conclude that Ms Ws pension was in fact set up as a personal pension policy with no GMP 
being transferred, I will also conclude that Prudential provided accurate information to 
business S about Ms Ws policy. 
Id first like to acknowledge that theres only a limited amount of information available from 
the time of the advice and the time the pension policy was set up. So I understand why Ms 
W is concerned that Prudential didnt provide her with all of the information it had. She felt 
that around 17 years of data was missing. 
But I consider that given how much time has passed since Prudential was responsible for 
administering the policy, the amount of documentation it retained isnt unusual. I say this 
because Prudential ceased to be the administrator in 2012. And it wasnt even the original 
business that set up the policy, although it did take over from that business.In any event, even if I did have concerns about the data Prudential has provided, I agree 
with our investigator that this service is unable to investigate such concerns. I also agree 
with our investigator that since the documentary evidence from the time of the transfer is 
relatively sparse, I must make my decision on what I think happened on balance of 
probabilities. 
Before I consider the evidence Ive been provided with, Id like to provide some information 
about Section 32 policies.
Section 32 policies
Section 32 plans were created by transferring the benefits from an existing workplace 
pension scheme into a personal pension. 
Some workplace pensions included GMPs, which would also be transferred to the Section 
32 plan. The Section 32 provider would take on the responsibility to pay the GMP when the 
consumer reached a certain age (60 for females and 65 for males - the GMP age) 
regardless of how well the pension had performed.
Where the transfer from a workplace pension included a GMP, the Section 32 provider had 
to pay the same GMP once the member reached the GMP age, regardless of whether the 
fund value has grown enough to cover the cost of it.
Id also like to provide some information about how GMPs are treated following a transfer. 
How are GMPs treated following a transfer?
GMPs are treated differently depending on the nature of the receiving pension scheme.
As the July 1992 letter stated, it wouldve been possible for Ms W to transfer her company 
pension into a new OPS or to a Section 32 policy, as long as the new provider accepted full 
liability for the transferred GMP. 
But the letter also stated that the transfer payment could be made into a Personal Pension 
Plan. The letter didnt explicitly state that if that were to happen, the transferred GMP would 
be held within a money purchase structure, rather than maintaining the defined benefit 
promise of the original GMP. But it did state the amount of the TV that would be in respect of 
PR. 
Ms W said she was then advised by her financial adviser to transfer her company pension to 
a Section 32 policy with provider S. She also said that her company pension was only 
transferred to provider S on the basis that it would be transferred to a Section 32 policy. But I 
havent seen any evidence that this is what was advised, or that Ms W or her adviser had 
told provider S that the transfer must be to a Section 32 policy. I say this having reviewed the 
10 August 1992 letter Ms Ws adviser sent to her. In my view, this letter merely explained the 
information the adviser had received from Ms Ws company pension scheme in July 1992. It 
didnt state that Ms W should set up a Section 32 policy. And Ive not been provided with any 
evidence that provider S was ever asked to set up a Section 32 policy.
Ms W has said that a report from the Pension Review data showed that her pension was a 
Section 32 policy. And that some screenshots from her financial advisers computer network 
system also showed this. Shes also noted other places where third parties have referred to 
her pension with Prudential as a Section 32 policy.
Additionally, Ms W said that shed received a Prudential pension statement in July 2004 which said that certain benefits must be used to buy a pension which couldnt be taken 
before age 60. And that a 50% spouses benefit would need to be included.
I know Ms W wont agree, but I cant reasonably say that the evidence shes provided of 
other parties referring to her pension with Prudential as a Section 32 policy shows that such 
a policy had been set up. Or that Prudential had accepted responsibility for her GMP.
I say this because Im much more persuaded by the actual application form Ms W completed 
when her personal pension was set up. This showed that she would transfer PR in place of 
her GMP benefits with her company pension. And although Ms Ws July 2004 statement 
seems to her to reflect GMP benefits, Id expect to see information like this in respect of the 
PR part of her benefits. This is because at the time of this statement there were certain 
requirements on the use of PR benefits. And these were similar to those for GMP. 
While I acknowledge that Ms W thinks her company scheme wouldnt have transferred her 
pension to a personal pension plan, because it wouldnt have been allowed under the rules 
of that scheme, I dont agree this meant that the policy she set up with provider S wouldve 
had to take on her GMP. And I dont agree that a personal pension plan couldnt be used for 
the transfer.
Im satisfied that a transfer to a personal pension, rather than a Section 32 policy, was a 
valid option at the time of the transfer. I say this based on the regulations at the time and the 
content of the July 1992 letter. Im also satisfied  for the same reasons - that provider S 
didnt need to set up a Section 32 policy for Ms W in order to meet her company pension 
providers requirements.
I also note that the only application form provided as evidence shows that Ms W applied for 
a personal pension, not a Section 32 plan. And that theres no evidence that the GMP Ms W 
had built up in her company scheme was transferred to provider S/Prudential. 
Instead, I consider that the evidence shows that almost £6,000 of the value transferred to 
provider S/Prudential was in respect of PR. The application form itself explained that the PR 
shown was the cash equivalent of the GMP that had been included in the transfer value. So I 
think it was relatively clear that Ms W would be exchanging her GMP for PR if she went 
ahead with the transfer. The advisers letter of August 1992 also stated: If you were to 
transfer the benefits to [provider S] using the transfer value estimated by [company pension 
provider], your pension would depend on the performance of the funds in which you 
invested. I think this also makes it clear that the future benefits from Ms Ws new plan would 
depend on the investment performance. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that provider S/Prudential set up the wrong sort of pension for Ms 
W. Neither can I reasonably conclude that Prudential provided incorrect information to 
business S. 
I can see that Ms W feels very strongly about her complaint and that shes spent a great deal 
of time and effort trying to get to the bottom of this situation. I hope that she is now satisfied 
that provider S/Prudential correctly set up the policy she applied for. And that the policy 
wasnt set up fraudulently, as a transfer to a personal pension was permitted by the 
company pension. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman