DRN-2699198
The complaint
Miss H complains Revolut Ltd blocked her account and debited £140 without her consent. 
She asks Revolut to refund the payments and compensate her for the service she received.
What happened
Miss H holds a Revolut account. During 2019 she needed to top up her account but didnt 
have enough funds. Her mother agreed to help and added her banks debit card details to 
Miss Hs Revolut account.
Around that time, Miss Hs mother opened her own account with Revolut. Miss H says her 
mother never received the first Revolut card which Revolut sent, but she did receive the 
second card it sent. Miss H says her mothers bank account was compromised. Someone 
made payments from the account to a Revolut account neither she nor her mother hold. She 
thinks someone cloned her mothers debit card.
Miss H says her mother contacted her bank and raised chargebacks so the payments could 
be refunded.
Revolut froze Miss Hs account. It asked her to provide evidence showing the payments left 
her mothers account. It also wanted to verify Miss Hs identity. Miss H initially couldnt 
provide evidence for her mothers account, but she was eventually able to. Revolut 
unblocked Miss Hs account, but the chargebacks had been processed and Miss Hs 
account was debited, leaving her with a negative balance.
Miss H complained to Revolut. She said her account had been debited unfairly, and she was 
being held liable for the actions of a fraudster. Revolut said it needed to debit her account to 
comply with its responsibilities. Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss H brought her 
complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. They found:
- Revolut needed to return the funds back to Miss Hs mother on receiving chargeback 
requests from her mothers bank.
- Any fraud Miss Hs mother experienced involving Revolut is a matter for Miss Hs 
mother to bring.
Miss H disagreed with the outcome. She said her mother received the £140 back through 
the chargeback, and it was unfair Miss H was left out of pocket. She referred to media 
articles about  other Revolut customers who had been the victims of fraud and scams.
As no resolution was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide as an 
ombudsman. 
I asked Miss H for clarification on the following statement she made:
I understand that Revolut needed to get their money back on the charge backs from the 
fraudulent deposit transactions, my point is that I did not spend the deposited money, the 
deposited money was somehow taken from the account (by the fraudster's [sic] that made 
the deposits). Revolut then took the amount from the charge backs from my account, from 
my Revolut balance.
I wanted to know whether Miss H was saying a fraudster made payments from her Revolut 
account. And if so, which payments did she not recognise. Miss H didnt respond to my 
questions, and Im satisfied she has had enough time to provide a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Revolut has a wide variety of legal and regulatory responsibilities it must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. These mean it must monitor accounts, but also act when 
potential concerns regarding transactions are raised.
 
Revolut received a chargeback request from Miss Hs mothers bank in relation to top ups 
crediting Miss Hs account. I find blocking Miss Hs account while Revolut investigated what 
happened was a proportionate step it needed to take to fulfil its responsibilities.
Im satisfied Revolut were reasonable in asking Miss H for proof of where the top up funds 
originated. They had received a chargeback claim which indicated her mother didnt consent 
to the payments. Miss H wasnt able to provide evidence straight away, so returning the 
funds to her mothers account was appropriate.
Miss H eventually provided evidence to show the payments left her mothers account, which 
Revolut acted on by unfreezing Miss Hs account, after it had verified her identity  which 
again was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss H thinks Revolut responded to the chargeback incorrectly and debited her account 
rather than the account of an unknown Revolut account holder. But I disagree. 
The payments which left Miss Hs mothers account matched the payment amounts and 
number of the payments which topped up Miss Hs Revolut account. So, I find the payments 
were sent to Miss Hs Revolut account and nobody elses.
Miss Hs mother might not have recognised the payments out of her bank account as 
payments to her daughter because she didnt recognise the Revolut reference. But, the 
reference merely identified the transactions. It did not reference a third partys Revolut 
account. So, Im satisfied Revolut were right to debit Miss Hs account. Revolut could take 
this action under the terms of the account.
Miss H was left with a negative balance, but this was caused by her mother raising a 
successful, potentially mistaken, chargeback claim. The negative balance was not because 
of an error made by Revolut. I asked Miss H whether she was disputing any of the payments 
made out of her account that spent the top up funds, but she didnt respond. 
So, Im satisfied Revolut dealt with the chargeback request reasonably and it was correct to 
refund those sums, despite leaving Miss H with a negative balance.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman