DRN-3564134
The complaint
In summary, Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, blocked a 
payment from his current account. He says this resulted in a financial loss to him.
What happened
On 30 August 2021, Mr K made a test payment of £1 into an account he had set up in his 
name. He then made a further payment of £9,999 to the same account. The payment was 
blocked just after 7pm that evening, so he contacted Clydesdale.
Clydesdales customer service representative explained that its fraud department was 
closed and that the payment wouldnt be able to be released until the following day. She 
went on to explain that the fraud team wouldnt release payments between 7pm and 7am. 
Mr K was unhappy with this, as he said this would mean he wouldnt be able to pay off some 
of his mortgage and re-mortgage at a lower rate of interest.
In its response to Mr Ks complaint, Clydesdale explained that its fraud prevention system 
was automated. And it had no control over what payments were placed on hold. The funds 
were released the following day.
Mr K didnt agree with Clydesdales response. His concerns were looked into by one of our 
investigators. He explained to Mr K why he didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree so the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr K found his experience with Clydesdale to be frustrating when he 
found out that his payment had been blocked, and that it couldnt be released that day. And 
the key issue I need to decide, is whether Clydesdale did anything wrong by blocking the 
payment and not releasing it the same day. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In reviewing Mr Ks complaint, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues I need 
to determine. This means that I wont necessarily have addressed all of the points that Mr K 
has made. But I want to reassure Mr K and Clydesdale that I have thought about everything 
they have provided me with.
Mr K has raised concerns about the length of time Clydesdale took to provide a substantive 
response to his complaint. Ideally a business such as Clydesdale would respond to a 
complaint as quickly as possible. But the Dispute resolution (DISP) rules under which I 
operate, and that Clydesdale must take into account, do provide for it to have eight weeks to 
respond to a customers complaint. And I can see that it provided its substantive response to 
the complaint, within eight weeks from when Mr K raised his concerns with it.
Clydesdale has a legal duty to protect the money of customers such as Mr K. And it is  
obliged to have effective security process in place to ensure that its customers money is 
adequately protected against the possibility of fraud. And if it doesnt have appropriate fraud 
prevention measures in place to protect customers money in a secure and appropriate way, 
this could have serious consequences for individual customers if they were to become 
victims of fraud  and for Clydesdale as a business.  
So, I think its appropriate for Clydesdale to have process in place to stop and check any 
payments that might be flagged by its systems as suspicious. And clause 10.5 of the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ks account provide for fraud checks to be made. I accept Mr K was 
frustrated when he spoke to Clydesdale and was told the fraud department had closed and 
he couldnt speak to anyone from that department. Ive noted that Mr Ks payment was 
released the following morning, which I think in the circumstances of this particular case, 
was a reasonable period of time for the payment to be released.
I do understand that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision. But, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I dont think Clydesdale has done anything wrong when it blocked his payment 
and released the payment the following morning. So, it doesnt need to pay any 
compensation to Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman