DRN-2455591
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by M&S Financial Solutions to transfer 
his occupational pension (OPS) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest his 
funds through a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). 
M&S Financial Solutions was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd at the time of 
the advice, so Pi are responsible for M&Ss actions and this complaint. Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision for ease of reading. 
What happened
In September 2017, Pi recommended Mr W to transfer his OPS into a SIPP and use Mayfair 
Capital as his DFM. Mr W followed the recommendation and opened the SIPP and a trading 
account with Mayfair. He transferred his pension worth around £802,000 into the SIPP and 
Pis initial adviser fees of £16,000 were deducted. Mr W then took a lump sum of 25% in tax-
free cash and requested a monthly gross income of £1,350 to be paid to him from his flexi-
drawdown plan which was set up to be paid from November 2017. 
In 2019, Mr W complained to Pi. He said he wasnt aware that the initial adviser fee would be 
deducted before the tax-free cash was calculated. This meant he only received £196,000 in 
tax-free cash, rather than the £200,000 he had expected. So he was £4,000 short. When he 
told Pi about this they paid him £400 back.
Mr W also thinks he was not invested in line with his balanced attitude to risk. He said he 
had agreed to 20% of his funds to be invested in higher risk funds, but he didnt know he 
was down £170,000 until he asked the SIPP and DFM for a valuation. He thinks Pi as his 
adviser should have told him about this.
He also is unhappy that he cant transfer his pension to another provider now as some of his 
funds are tied up in a bond for five years. And he believes Pi did not provide a service for 
their ongoing fees.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint about being unsuitably advised to go into a SIPP 
with a DFM. She also didnt think there was sufficient evidence Pi had provided an ongoing 
service to Mr W.
Pi disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tax free cash difference
Ive seen an email dated 13 September 2017 from Mr W to Pi explaining that he wanted to 
take tax free cash of 25%, i.e. £200,512 before fees are deducted which was acknowledged 
by the adviser on the same day. So Pi knew what Mr W was expecting. And Pi did complete 
the flexible drawdown application with Mr W stating he wanted maximum tax-free cash. Im 
not sure what was discussed around this, however even if Mr W was given wrong or 
misleading information in this regard, I agree with the investigator that Mr W hasnt 
financially lost out as a result. And the £400 paid by Pi in compensation is reasonable to 
compensate for any loss of expectation or upset Mr W experienced in relation to this.
Suitability of advice to transfer his funds into a SIPP and use a DFM
The investigator clarified with Mr W that his complaint is not about the advice to transfer out 
of his OPS itself, so I want to be clear that this decision does not deal with this aspect of Pis 
advice.
I considered whether it was suitable advice to recommend a SIPP and DFM to Mr W. 
Mr W wanted to take a large amount of tax-free cash and then draw a regular income, so I 
think a SIPP with a drawdown facility generally wasnt inherently unsuitable in his 
circumstances. The SIPP recommended had reasonable annual charges as far as I can see.
However, Im not persuaded using a DFM arrangement was a suitable proposition for Mr W.
At the time of the advice Mr W was 63, widowed, being fully retired and living off his savings. 
He had an unencumbered home worth £90,000 and investment portfolio of around £48,000 
made up of property bonds and emergency savings of £40,000. His pension worth over 
£800,000 was his only retirement provision. 
A knowledge and experience questionnaire showed that Mr Ws only investment experience 
was in relation to savings accounts, regular saving vehicles and investment bonds, all of 
which he took out with advice. From what Ive seen I would consider Mr W to be a relatively 
inexperienced investor without any significant financial knowledge.
Mr W was identified to be a balanced investor. From what Ive seen Mr W hasnt disputed 
that he was prepared to take some risk with his pension and the suitability report mentioned 
that he accepted he couldnt invest all his monies in a cautious manner in order in achieve 
returns that beat inflation. So I think investing his funds in balanced way wasnt unsuitable.
Pis ongoing adviser fees were 0.75% per year paid annually in advance. In return for this 
charge, Pi said they would discuss Mr Ws circumstances with him every six months and 
track his progress against his plan and provide an annual review of Mr Ws overall financial 
situation. They said in their suitability report they may also recommend rebalances to Mr Ws 
chosen funds where necessary to ensure it remained in line with his attitude to risk.
The DFM charged 1.5% dealing commission as well as additional charges which depended 
on how Mr Ws funds would be invested. I cant see that Pi gave Mr W more details around 
this.
A stakeholder pension or other personal pensions were deemed less suitable for Mr W as a 
SIPP offered a wider range of fund choices. The DFM was recommended as Mr W would 
receive active management of his funds which would offer the ability to react quickly to 
market conditions. 
However, the DFM arrangement added a layer of complexity and charges that Mr W, in my 
view, didnt need. He wasnt a particularly experienced investor and his main objective was 
to ensure his pension provided him a steady retirement income of £15,000 a year. I dont 
think he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the bespoke 
investment propositions a DFM would give to him and he was paying a premium charge for this. 
I cant see that a wider range of funds or a bespoke investment portfolio was necessary to 
meet Mr Ws objectives. There was no reason why he couldnt have invested in a more 
standard portfolio which could have been reviewed by Pi regularly during their ongoing 
service to make sure it was still in line with his attitude to risk and meet his requirements. 
In fact the suitability report set out a balanced portfolio which was invested in global and 
smaller equities, government and corporate bonds as well as cash. Pi said the DFM would 
contact Mr W with suggestions of investments, typically in FTSE 100 companies. In my 
view this kind of investment allocation could have been achieved without the need to pay 
additional charges for a DFM which would reduce the returns on his pension unnecessarily.
Whilst Pi compared different DFMs, I cant see that simpler and cheaper investment options 
without a DFM were properly explored. So I dont think it was made clear that he was paying 
a premium for a service that wasnt a necessity. 
Overall, I dont think a DFM arrangement was in Mr Ws best interest and the additional 
costs werent justified in his circumstances.
Pi also had a duty to ensure the recommended DFM was appropriate and do their due 
diligence on the firm they were recommending. 
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued guidance in July 2012 about the 
recommendation of DFMs (Assessing suitability: Replacement business and centralised 
investment propositions). And the Personal Finance Society build on this in February 2015 
with a good practice guide for advisers to help them develop their approach on due diligence 
into DFM firms.
Both regulatory and industry guidance made it clear that advisers needed to do some due 
diligence on a DFM before recommending their services which included for example 
research into their reputation and financial standing as well as the types of underlying assets 
the DFM would invest in and their approach to investing. The good practice guide said 
advisers needed to get under the bonnet of a DFMs marketing blurb and were required to 
question and challenge information that was provided to them. Given that the DFM was only 
established in 2016 and authorised a few months before Pi recommended them to Mr W, 
particular care should have been taken. Pi provided evidence of some due diligence 
questionnaire they sent to the DFM. How this was completed in August 2018, nearly a year 
after the advice was given to Mr W.
Based on valuations Ive seen it looks like Mr W ended up in investments which were higher 
risk than suitable for him.  And I think the risk of him ending up in this situation could have 
been reasonably avoided by Pi. They should have taken more care to ensure the DFM 
would stick to the kind of balanced portfolio and investments in mainly FTSE 100 companies 
as they had set out in their suitability report to Mr W. Pi didnt provide any evidence to show 
that any such inquiries or checks were made. I dont consider recommending the DFM and 
then relying on them providing suitable advice without doing any proper due diligence into 
the DFM and their investment strategy beforehand was sufficient. 
Ive seen the application to open a trading account for the DFM and their terms of business. 
Both refer to investments in AIM, penny shares and companies trading on the NEX 
Exchange. 
The application form also asks clients to complete their preferred product classes and how 
much they would like to invest into different assets. Following the form in line with a balanced portfolio, 15% would be invested into high risk and speculative investments. These 
were described as Global Small Equities (e.g. AIM) & Non-Investment Grade Corporate 
bonds. I think such a percentage was high for a balanced investor and Pi should have 
queried such an asset strategy further and asked for more information about what sorts of 
bonds Mayfair would usually consider in here and what due diligence they would do on the 
investments.
Pi was also providing an ongoing service for Mr W. Mr W invested over £585,000 in October 
2017 with Mayfair and a year later it was only worth around £432,000. Even taking into 
account that Mr W had taken annual net income of £15,000, these were significant losses 
that should have raised concerns whether the investments matched Mr Ws attitude to risk. 
Responsibility for investment losses
Pi says Mayfair was responsible for the suitability of the investments and so they are the 
ones who should be held to account here.
I appreciate that Mayfair is regulated and had their own responsibilities towards Mr W. And I 
acknowledge that they might be separately responsible for Mr Ws losses. However, Im 
deciding the complaint against Pi and I think they could have avoided Mr Ws losses. As I 
explained above, I dont think Pi should have recommended Mr W to invest through a DFM 
at all. So with suitable advice Mr W wouldnt have ended up in the DFM and in the position 
he is in now. In addition, from what Ive seen Pi failed to do proper due diligence on the DFM 
to ensure they fully understood the DFMs investment strategy and whether it was 
appropriate for Mr Ws circumstances. If they had done so, I think they ought to have 
realised that the DFMs investment strategy included speculative investments which likely 
werent suitable for Mr W. 
So in the circumstances of this case I consider it fair and reasonable that Pi compensates Mr 
W for all is losses. If Pi feels Mayfair is also at fault here, they are free to pursue them 
directly after they have compensated Mr W in full.
I can see that Pis adviser informed Mr W in September 2018 that M&S Financial would be 
closing and that he would move to another firm which also would also be an appointed 
representative of Pi. He said he wanted to keep Mr W as a client. However, I dont think it 
was made particularly clear that ongoing advice would cease and when. Mr W asked Pi for a 
valuation and said he would be back in touch. On 18 January 2019, the adviser contacted Mr 
W (from an M&S email address) to say he had liaised with Mayfair to change his risk 
approach to cautious and to give him information about a bond in Mr Ws portfolio. He was 
still in my view very much involved at this point. He said if Mr W wanted ongoing advice to 
continue he needed to return some paperwork. Follow up correspondence indicates that Mr 
W told Pi he was receiving guidance from a third party. It seems Mr W made the decision not 
to use the services of Pi anymore. 
I considered requesting Pi to calculate losses up until today. As I said above, if Pi had given 
suitable advice Mr W wouldnt have ended up in the DFM and riskier investments at all. So 
ending an adviser relationship does not necessarily mean they wouldnt be responsible for 
losses after this point. However, after January 2019 it looks like Mr W was relying on advice 
and guidance from another adviser. And so, like the investigator, I think its fair in the 
circumstances that losses should be calculated until January 2019 and brought up to date 
with an index.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr W fairly, Pi must:Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is
payable. Pi should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay that
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual marginal rate of tax 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr W is a basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. 
Pay Mr W £ £250 to compensate him for the worry and concern the losses to his 
pension have caused him when he realised he possibly lost all his retirement funds.
Investment Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Loss brought 
up to date
Mayfair  
portfolio in 
SIPPStill 
exists For half of the 
investment:
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index; 
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed rate
bondsDate of 
investment31 January 
2019The 
calculated 
loss should 
be updated 
to the date 
my final 
decision by 
using the 
same index
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr W paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases toaccrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and income with a small risk to his capital. 
Pi must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr W 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr W a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Pi should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Pi should pay Mr W the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Pi pays Mr W the balance plus any interest on the 
amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Pi. It is 
unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman