DRN-3371107
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
bank accounts, his account history is as follows.
28 October 2003  Fee free Classic account
5 November 2003  Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum Account 
25 September 2010  Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier Vantage Account
10 May 2016  Changed to a Premier Account without Vantage  
Amongst other things, he says that the benefits of the accounts were not explained to him 
and they changed over time.
What happened
Lloyds initially said that we could not look at the sale of Premier and Premier Vantage 
account as they believed the complaint was brought too late. One of our adjudicators looked 
into this and they decided that we could not look at these sales either. Neither party 
disagreed with this.
Our adjudicator then assessed the sale of the Platinum account and they didnt think that 
Lloyds had mis-sold the account. Mr B disagreed with this and therefore his complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Bs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr B 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr B was given a fair choice in taking out the Platinum 
account. Mr B had held a fee free account prior to this sale so I think that he wouldve been 
aware that fee free accounts were available and an option for him. Mr B has not explained 
why he thought that he could not continue with a fee free account, so overall, on balance, I 
think that he agreed to the Platinum account knowing that he did not have to.
The Platinum account was recommended to Mr B. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it 
was a broadly reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time.
At the time the Platinum account was taken out some of the benefits included 
comprehensive breakdown cover and worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, a fee-free and interest-free £250 overdraft buffer and Home shopping service 
(discounts on the purchase of electrical goods). 
Whilst holding the Platinum account it seems that Mr B did use the breakdown cover. Mr Bs 
circumstances also suggest that he couldve used the travel insurance and mobile phone 
insurance. So it suggests that Mr B could use the major benefits that the account came with. 
Additionally, Mr B has not explained why he could not use these benefits. So overall I think 
that Lloyds recommending the Platinum was not unreasonable.
I accept that Mr B may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of the 
benefits that the Platinum account came with. So I need to consider if there was any specific 
that Mr B was not told that either caused him a direct loss or wouldve altered his decision to 
take out the account.
Mr B has said he was not told that in the future if he suffered from Medical conditions, he 
may not be covered for them under the travel insurance policy. But given that he has 
explained that he did not have any medical conditions at the point the account was taken 
out, I dont think being told this wouldve changed his decision to take out the account. Mr B 
has also mentioned that he was not told that the benefits of the account could change and 
this resulted in him not being able to use the Home shopping benefits. Whilst I can see that 
this would be frustrating to Mr B, Lloyds was entitled to change this benefit and I think it likely 
that the changes would have been communicated to Mr B. I also have not seen enough to 
say that this caused a specific loss or wouldve caused Mr B to change his mind on keeping 
the account as he kept the account after finding this out.
In relation to the Airport Lounge access, which Mr B says he was told was removed. Looking 
at the benefits of the account I cant see that this was removed whilst he held the Platinum 
account. It does look as if this benefit was removed from the Premier account whilst Mr B 
held it, but as this decision is only addressing the sale of the Platinum account, I cannot 
comment on this during this decision.
In relation to the remainder of the account benefits I have not seen anything else specific 
about Mr Bs circumstances, that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
the account, had he been given even more information about the benefits that the account 
came with.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr B mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, he may now believe that his account was 
mis-sold or has not provided value for money. But based on what Mr B has said, alongside 
all of the available evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that the 
Platinum account was mis-sold in the first instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman