DRN-2504671
The complaint
Mr S complains Argentis Financial Management Ltd trading as Gallagher has not treated him 
fairly following a company restructure.
What happened
Mr S has been a customer of Argentis for a number of years. During which time he has built 
up a relationship with an adviser who has advised him on his investments and pensions. 
In recent times there has been company restructure which meant a number of advisers left 
its employ, including his adviser. Mr S wanted to retain the services of his adviser even if this 
meant leaving Argentis. He said he could only presume his adviser had agreed to a non-
contact clause when leaving Argentis. 
Mr S has suffered recent ill health and wanted to retain the advice of an adviser he trusts 
and has a relationship with, especially at this time of uncertainty. He feels Argentis havent 
been forthcoming with clarifying if there is any restriction on contacting his previous adviser 
or for them to contact him.
In its final response dated 3 April 2020, Argentis apologised for any confusion this matter 
has caused. Whilst it said it couldnt contact its ex-employee on Mr Ss behalf it confirmed 
there was no restriction preventing Mr S from locating his adviser online or in any other 
manner. It said it couldnt comment on any restriction that may or may not have part of an 
ex-employees leaving agreement as this was a matter between the two parties and not a 
matter for public disclosure.
Dissatisfied, Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. He didnt find that Argentis had treated Mr S 
unfairly. He didnt agree that Argentis could or should disclose details of an ex-employee and 
as such didnt ask Argentis to do anything further.
Mr S disagreed. He feels strongly that he asked a simple question. Namely that should he 
contact his previous adviser could Argentis confirm here would be no implications for either 
the adviser nor the advisers new employer. He maintains a simple response would have 
sufficed. In failing to do so he feels disadvantaged. In that, in his view, he can contact any 
adviser he wishes but not his chosen adviser as he remains unclear if this would pose any 
legal issues for the adviser, something he is keen to avoid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im in 
agreement with the investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S. Ill explain 
why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I can understand following a period of ill health Mr S would be very keen to ensure he can 
retain the services of a trusted adviser, especially with regard to his investments and 
pensions. I can also understand that given the high regard he has for his adviser he would 
not wish to cause any problems for them and so has sought some form of assurance from 
his advisers now previous employer, Argentis.
My role here is to look to see if Argentis has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S. I havent seen anything here that suggests otherwise. It hasnt prevented Mr S from 
seeking out his previous adviser and has in fact suggested it may be very easy to locate his 
adviser online. But I dont agree that Argentis has treated Mr S unfairly in not contacting its 
ex-employee on his behalf nor providing Mr S with the advisers contact details. In both cases 
this would be a breach of the data protection laws.
Similarly, Argentis is not in a position to disclose the details of any agreement it reaches with 
its previous employees. As it rightly says this is a private matter between itself and the other 
party. Whilst this may be frustrating for Mr S, Argentis doesnt have responsibility to assist 
him locate a new adviser as Mr Ss relationship is ultimately with the business and not the 
adviser. 
There is nothing to prevent Mr S locating his adviser. If the adviser is able to continue 
advising him it would be a matter for them to disclose directly to Mr S. From what Ive seen 
Argentis hasnt obstructed Mr S in locating his adviser either so I cant fairly say Argentis has 
done anything wrong and as such Im not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman