DRN-3693174
The complaint
Mr D complains that advice given by a predecessor business of Phoenix Life Limited to 
transfer the benefits of his occupational final salary pension to a personal pension wasnt in 
his best interests.
Mr Ds complaint was originally brought by a representative, but thats no longer the case so 
Ill just refer to Mr D in the decision. 
What happened
In 1991 Mr D was advised by a representative of Swiss Pioneer Life to transfer the 
preserved benefits of his mineworkers final salary pension scheme to a personal pension. 
Swiss Pioneer Life is now part of Phoenix Life, so Phoenix is responsible for answering the 
complaint. While much of the historic correspondence was with Swiss Pioneer Life, Ill mainly 
refer to Phoenix in the decision. 
In April 2020 Mr D complained to Phoenix that the transfer from his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) wasnt in his best interests. Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint, saying Mr 
Ds policy had been reviewed as part of the industry-wide pension review. The calculation 
carried out at the time showed he hadnt lost out by the transfer, so no redress was due. And 
as the review was intended by the regulator to be a one-off exercise it wasnt obliged to 
review the advice again. Phoenix initially told Mr D they wouldve written to him with an 
outcome in November 1996, but as they couldnt provide evidence to confirm this had 
happened, they offered £200 for this.  
 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service, saying he didnt recall receiving any 
correspondence relating to the review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and was satisfied a review had been carried out at the time, so he didnt think it had to 
reviewed again. But he thought it was fair for Phoenix to pay £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr D. 
Mr D remained unhappy so asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2022 explaining why Id reached the 
same outcome as our investigator. 
My provisional findings 
I started by saying that although the events at the heart of Mr Ds complaint happened more 
than 25 years ago, Phoenix had consented to this services investigation, so I was able to 
consider the merits of his complaint.
I set out that although it looked like Mr D had five policies, the majority of the pension review 
file related to three policies Mr D had with Phoenix as follows:
Policy A - ending **319B established in April 1992 to enable Mr D to contract out of SERPS. 
This policy was reviewed separately, and the outcome was communicated to Mr D in 
December 1997. 
Policy B - ending **3991H established in September 1992 valued at just over £11,522 for the 
non-protected rights element of his OPS
Policy C - ending **3992A established at the same time valued at just under £2,033 for the 
protected rights element of his OPS.
From the fact-find completed at the time of the sale of policies B and C, Mr Ds address 
showed he lived in a town I referred to as D and the first two letters of his post-code were 
recorded as DN, which correctly represents that town. 
I set out that Mr D was originally sent pension review invitation letters in November 1995, 
January 1996 and June 1996. But by then hed moved to another address within the same 
town, but not advised Phoenix, so it seemed likely he didnt receive that correspondence. At 
the end of October 1996 Phoenix closed its review file as Mr D hadnt responded. 
In early September 1997 Mr D rang Phoenix to update his address. But probably due to the 
call handler mishearing, his new postcode was recorded as starting with BN (which 
represents another UK town) rather than DN. 
Phoenix subsequently sent Mr D a letter containing details of the three plans mentioned 
above, plus a separate pension review letter enclosing a copy of the review questionnaire. 
Both of these letters were correctly addressed except for the postcode. Mr D evidently 
received them, as Phoenix received his completed questionnaire on 3 October 1997. Mr D 
had included his address and correct postcode in the declaration section at the end, 
authorising Phoenix to carry out the review. But Phoenix didnt correct Mr Ds postcode in its 
records. 
On 3 October 1997 Phoenix wrote to the personnel department of Mr Ds previous employer 
enclosing a questionnaire and a reply-paid envelope. And it acknowledged receipt of Mr Ds 
questionnaire to his new address, (with the wrong postcode). It said the outcome would be 
provided as soon as possible, but it had received a large number of forms which all needed 
to be checked. In the meantime Phoenix recommended Mr D consider re-joining his OPS if 
he was entitled to, as its almost always in the employees best interests. The letter also 
provided a freephone telephone number for any queries Mr D had. 
As Phoenix had been unsuccessful in obtaining the information from Mr Ds former 
employer, they wrote to Mr D on 10 October 1997 to ask a number of questions relating to 
when he contracted out of SERPS. This letter also included the freephone number for 
queries. It sent a chaser 13 November 1997 enclosing a copy of the 10 October 1997 letter, 
saying the information requested is essential in order for us to review your pension 
arrangements. Mr D must have received both of these despite the incorrect postcode, as 
Phoenix received his response on 27 November 1997, and the copy shows hed hand-
written his responses on the original letter. 
I then went on to explain the pension review had been instigated and overseen by the then 
regulator the Securities and Investments Board (SIB), which set out the process firms had to 
follow in its past business review document dated October 1994. Mr Ds policies were included in phase two of the review, and individual case reviews were expected to take no 
more than two years to complete. 
I said that from when Mr D responded to the review invitation at the end of November 1997 
he was aware of the pension review, was put on notice the transfer may not have been in his 
best interests, he wouldve been expecting an outcome, the incorrect postcode hadnt 
prevented correspondence reaching him, and hed been given a freephone number to use 
for queries.
Id seen the calculation Phoenix carried out which was deemed to be no loss based on the 
fund value on 1 November 1996. Businesses were required to keep their pension review 
files indefinitely, but unfortunately Phoenix doesnt have the complete file from Swiss 
Pioneer Life. So its not clear from the evidence whether the outcome was communicated to 
Mr D. Phoenix said the review process required an outcome to be issued but couldnt 
provide a copy outcome letter, and the system screenshot suggested the outcome hadnt 
been communicated. But it also said a sweep-up exercise wouldve been carried out some 
time later, but theres no evidence this happened. So either Mr D received an outcome 
(based on the assumptions applicable at the time) saying the transfer hadnt disadvantaged 
him. Or having given his permission for a review to be carried out, Mr D never received an 
answer and didnt chase Phoenix up. 
I explained that where the evidence is lacking or contradictory as it is here, Id base my 
conclusions on the evidence I do have, and what I think is most likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities. Although I couldnt confirm this from the evidence, I thought it 
was possible the no loss outcome had been communicated to Mr D. 
Firstly the pension review methodology and process were prescribed and closely monitored 
by the regulator. The guidance said investors should be told the review file would be closed 
following a no loss outcome, unless they wished to raise a complaint, and the firm had to 
provide details of its complaints process. Firms had to submit returns showing their progress, 
and unless correspondence had been returned, I thought Phoenix wouldve had no reason 
not to send Mr D an outcome, to his updated address. And it was clear mail reached him 
despite the incorrect postcode, as hed responded to it. 
And secondly, Mr D was aware he had three policies with Phoenix, hed asked to be 
included in the review, so hed have been expecting an outcome. I thought given hed 
phoned Phoenix to update his address, he couldve phoned to chase up the response, 
particularly if he had access to a freephone number. Mr D had said in his complaint 
submission he didnt remember receiving any correspondence about the pensions review, 
which may not be surprising given it was so long ago. But the evidence shows he did receive 
correspondence which hed responded to, so its possible he had received an outcome but 
doesnt remember it now. And Mr Ds SERPS policy ending **319 was subject to a review, 
for which he received an outcome in December 1997. If Mr D had still not received an 
outcome of the review of the other two policies its reasonable to think this wouldve 
prompted him to make enquiries. 
But even if Mr D didnt receive an outcome as the evidence suggests, I said I wouldnt 
require Phoenix to redo the review using the current redress methodology. The purpose of 
the Pension Review was to draw a line under the issue of past pension mis-selling. It was 
intended to provide finality for both parties, which was important for the stability of the 
industry and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. The process which 
was based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using 
reasonable assumptions for future growth rates. Some of those assumptions, in particular 
relating to expected growth rates, didnt materialise which along with falling annuity rates, had an impact on the benefits provided by personal pensions. But thats not a reason to 
undertake the Pension Review once again. 
Id seen nothing to suggest Phoenix didnt conduct the review in accordance with the 
regulators guidance, so I said it wouldnt be fair to expect it to revisit it again. However as 
Phoenix hasnt been able to demonstrate it sent Mr D a review outcome, and had recorded 
his postcode incorrectly, albeit this doesnt seem to have prevented correspondence 
reaching him, I thought its offer of £200 is fair in the circumstances.
Responses to the provisional decision 
Neither party responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided any additional evidence for 
me to consider I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Which are that Im satisfied Mr Ds policies were reviewed as part of the industry-wide 
pensions review based on a fund valuation from November 1996. Due to the lack of 
evidence, I couldnt be sure the no loss outcome had been communicated to Mr D at the 
time. But even if it hadnt been, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to require Phoenix 
to revisit it using updated redress methodology. 
But I felt Phoenix should pay Mr D £200 to reflect that it couldnt confirm he had received an 
outcome, and it hadnt updated his post code correctly. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman