DRN-2368076
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly recorded a marker at CIFAS the
national fraud database.
What happened
Barclays received a report that fraudulent funds had been paid into Mr Ms account in
December 2018. Following a review, it wrote to Mr M on 2 January 2019 to tell him his
account would be closed. It added a CIFAS marker. Mr M was told he would need to prove
his entitlement to the remaining funds of over £2,700 in the account. Barclays allowed him
access to all that money from 21 February 2019 having considered the information Mr M
provided.
This service considered a previous complaint from Mr M about the closure of his account
and the time taken to release the funds but didnt uphold this. We said that Barclays was
entitled to make a decision to close his account under the terms and conditions. And that it
had released his money within a reasonable timescale once he had provided the information
and Barclays had made its checks.
Mr M only later discovered that Barclays had added the marker and raised a further
complaint about this. Barclays told him in a final response of 4 February 2020 that it could
review the marker if Mr M resent all the information he had about these payments as it
hadnt retained this. It said that as Mr M refused to do so it was unable to review the marker.
Barclays offered to pay him £100 for the time taken to consider his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything further. Mr M hadnt provided
any information to this service. And based on the information Barclays had provided he said
that he wouldnt be asking it to remove the marker.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that he
hadnt been found guilty of fraud and it was up to Barclays to prove this. He no longer had
emails about the specific payments, and he wanted to see the information held against him.
He said that the information he provided about the other credits into his account at that time
isnt relevant, hed already provided it to Barclays, and he wouldnt be providing this again.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to this complaint on 16 October 2020. I set out below what I 
said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I wanted to set out a bit more of the background of what happened. Mr M received payments 
of £340 on 6 December 2018 and £10 on 7 December 2018 into his account. The sender
reported these payments as fraudulent and the senders bank contacted Barclays about this
on 11 December 2018. Id looked at Mr Ms bank statement. By the time his account was
restricted Mr M had technically made withdrawals against these funds of £350 in his account
even though hed had other significant credits resulting in the closing balance.
Barclays decided to restrict Mr Ms account while it looked into what happened. Its notes
confirm that it didnt speak to Mr M at this time about the specifics of these payments. It
concluded its review and decided that it no longer wanted to provide an account for Mr M.
Barclays added a fraud marker at CIFAS.
Mr M clearly then provided sufficient evidence to persuade Barclays that the money
remaining in his account was genuinely his and it released this. It is unfortunate that neither
Barclays nor Mr M now have any further information about the specific disputed payments.
Mr M told this service that he thought he had this, but in April 2020 told our investigator he
could no longer provide this.
During our investigation into this and his other complaint Mr M has accepted that there was a
problem with the delivery of the related goods hed sold to the sender of this money. The
goods seemed to have been returned to Mr M. And he says that before he could deal with
this his account had been frozen. He says he has paid the sender back using someone
elses account. But he hasnt provided any evidence of this.
Having listened to the calls Mr M has had with our investigator I wanted to clarify that Mr M
doesnt need to be actually prosecuted for fraud as he thinks for a CIFAS marker to be
added. But as Ive said Barclays has to have sufficient information such that there are
grounds to support this being reported to the authorities. Here Barclays clearly relies on the
report from the senders bank. It decided not to speak to Mr M before it added the marker.
There is no evidence provided that it received a formal indemnity claim from that bank or say
told it that technically as I explained above the funds had been withdrawn. All the money in
Mr Ms account was released with no further suggestion hed been involved in fraudulent
activity. And as far as Mr M was concerned his wider trading had been shown to be
legitimate.
Mr M viewed the issue with the person sending the money as a buyer and seller dispute and
not fraud. And I could understand why he thought that had been accepted by Barclays and
was unhappy later to learn about the CIFAS marker. I considered Barclays had sufficient
opportunity before his money was released to investigate and document Mr Ms account of
what happened. Requiring him to provide similar information again when it hadnt kept this
wasnt reasonable and thats especially now that Mr M says he no longer has the relevant
parts.
Having balanced all the factors in this complaint I wasnt satisfied that the high bar for
recording a CIFAS marker has been met for the following reasons:
- The specific payments reported seemed to be part of a pattern of significant 
payments into Mr Ms account consistent with him selling goods and making related 
payments.
- Beyond the report from the sellers bank there is nothing to support the specific
payments being fraudulent and Mr Ms account of what happened hasnt been fairly
taken into account.
- Barclays released all the remaining money in the account to Mr M finding no
apparent further concern and having had ample opportunity to investigate fully and
review the CIFAS marker.
- Barclays hadnt persuaded me that it has satisfied the standard of proof and that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been
committed or attempted.So, my provisional view was that Barclays should remove the marker at CIFAS. This service
has already reached a view about it closing Mr Ms account and I said I was not looking at 
that here. I considered whether Barclays should do anything further. Mr M hasnt been
prepared to provide information to support his case including about the wider transactions at
the time. He hasnt shown that he has resolved the dispute with his buyer. I thought he could
have helped in dealing with this matter earlier however strong his views about what Barclays 
has done. Taking all that into account I didnt find that Barclays should pay him more than 
the compensation of £100 as it has already offered to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said that it accepted my provisional decision and was making arrangements for the 
CIFAS marker to be removed and said it could take a few weeks to be updated with the 
relevant agencies. It said that if Mr M accepted the £100 and gave his nominated bank 
details it could pay this to him.
Mr M did not respond, and I see no reason to depart from the findings of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman