DRN-2542238
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance cancellation claim. My references to URV include its agents.  
What happened
Miss C and Mr S booked a family package holiday in June 2019. They were due to depart on 
7 April 2020 and return on 22 April 2020. They bought a single trip travel insurance policy for 
the family, insured by URV, on 6 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad due to Covid-19. On 20 March 2020 Miss C and Mr S cancelled the 
holiday. The package provider said it would refund £1,740, which Miss C and Mr S say was 
the flight costs. They say the package provider told them it wouldnt refund the hotel costs of 
about £2,200 as the hotel was still open and they should claim those costs from the travel 
insurer.
URV declined the claim for two reasons. It said the policy didnt cover cancellation for a 
change in FCO advice due to Covid-19. It also said Miss C and Mr S bought the policy when 
Covid-19 was a known risk and the policy only covered unforeseen risks. URV said as there 
was no cover Miss C and Mr S should contact their travel agent, credit/debit card providers 
or other organisations to see if they could get a refund.
Miss C and Mr S complained to us. They said URV alleged they bought the policy after the 
FCO advice about travel changed, which wasnt true. Miss C said shed bought the policy 
four weeks before the trip, as she always did. When they complained to us they hadnt 
received the flight refund from the package provider. They want URV to pay their unused 
flight and hotel costs. They also said they were very worried and stressed about their 
financial situation.
Our investigator thought URV unfairly declined the claim and should reassess the claim. 
URV disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It still thought media reports about 
Covid-19 prompted Miss C and Mr S to buy the insurance so there was no cover.
Before I made my decision we contacted the package provider on Miss C and Mr S behalf to 
ask for its comments as to why it considered it didnt have to pay given The Package Travel 
and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) and The Competitions & Markets 
Authority open letter to travel agents on the issue. The package provider said it had refunded 
some of the flight costs to Miss C and Mr S but it refused to pay the hotel and transfer costs 
of £1,030 and airline cancellation fees of £1,110.
We contacted URV and told it that I was considering upholding the complaint and requiring 
URV to pay the claim plus interest (rather than reassess the claim) for the reasons Ive given 
in my findings below. We asked for URVs comments and ultimately URV agreed it would 
pay the claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt decline a claim unreasonably. I think URV unreasonably 
declined the claim on the reasons it gave. Ill explain why.
The first reason URV gave for declining the claim was that the policy didnt cover 
cancellation for a change in FCO advice due to Covid-19. But section 1 Cancellation and 
curtailment of the policy says URV will pay:
 irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay if:  
a. cancellation of the whole trip is necessary and unavoidable 
as a result of any of the following events occurring
5. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, 
the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in, as a result of natural 
disasters (such as earthquakes, fires, tsunamis, landslides, floods, hurricanes or 
epidemic(s)/pandemic(s)).
Miss C and Mr S cancelled after, and as a result of, the FCO advice against all but essential 
travel. Im satisfied the FCO advice was a government directive and that on a fair and 
reasonable basis its advice against all but essential travel was in effective prohibiting 
holiday travel. The advice was due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So I think Miss C and Mr S 
claim is covered by the policy and URV cant reasonably decline the claim for the first reason 
it gave.
The second reason URV gave for declining the claim was that Miss C and Mr S bought the 
policy probably knowing they would need to make a cancellation claim. URV didnt say they 
bought the policy after the change in FCO advice. URV hasnt referred to a policy term or 
condition in support of its argument. But with these types of policies we generally say a 
policyholder isnt covered for a risk that was known at the time the policy was bought.
However, its important to consider this point without the benefit of hindsight. There was 
media coverage about Covid-19 when Miss C and Mr S bought the policy on 6 March 2020. 
But the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare Covid-19 a pandemic until 
11 March 2020. There was no FCO guidance on 6 March which would have led Miss C and 
Mr S to believe they wouldnt be able to travel in April 2020.
In addition, there was nothing in the policy that said from 6 March 2020 URV wouldnt cover 
claims relating to Covid-19. It appears URV didnt consider Covid-19 a known risk until 
around 14 March 2020 which is when it announced how Covid-19 would affect the cover it 
would provide.
URV has highlighted its concern about the timing of Miss C and Mr S buying the policy. But 
Miss C and Mr S told URV they usually bought their insurance policy four weeks before a 
holiday so theyve given a plausible reason as to why they didnt buy a policy nearer the  
holiday booking date. And, as Ive said, there was no guidance from the WHO or the FCO 
when they bought the policy which should have reasonably alerted them to the possibility 
that they wouldnt be able to travel. Im satisfied that URV cant reasonably decline the claim on the basis that Miss C and Mr S  
bought the policy knowing they would make a cancellation claim.
Rather than say URV must reassess the claim, as our investigator recommended, Ive 
already explained to URV why I considered it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay 
the claim plus interest. Ive set out my reasons below.
The policy covers irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs. This was a 
package holiday and under the relevant regulations, The Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), the package holiday organiser is responsible for the 
performance of the travel services included in the package travel contract. Before the date 
Miss C and Mr S were due to travel the government of the country they were travelling to 
banned entry of foreign nationals. And if Miss C and Mr S hadnt cancelled the package 
provider would have had to cancel the whole package anyway given the FCO advice.
So as part of the reassessment I would have expected Miss C and Mr S to show URV 
theyve taken reasonable steps to get the full refund back from the package provider. 
Miss C had been in contact with the package provider before she bought the complaint to us 
but it wouldnt fully refund the lost costs. I asked our investigator to contact the package 
provider on Miss C and Mr S behalf to ask for its comments as to why it considers it doesnt 
have to pay given the PTR and The Competitions & Markets Authority open letter to travel 
agents on the issue. The package provider said it had refunded £1,740 (for cost of the flight 
less cancellation fee) to Miss C and Mr S on 5 May 2020 by bank transfer. Miss C and Mr S 
have now confirmed they received that payment. But the package provider said it refused to 
pay the hotel and transfer costs of £1,030 and airline cancellation fees of £1,110 . 
The package provider isnt a member of an industry scheme which has its own Alternative 
Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme. So Miss C and Mr S dont have an ADR scheme to go 
through. A consumer taking reasonable steps to get a refund doesnt usually mean a 
consumer has to take the package provider to court, in line with the regulators published 
guidance on this issue. So given the package providers response I consider that those costs 
are irrecoverable and URV should pay those costs, plus interest as detailed below.
Putting things right
URV has now agreed to pay the claim plus interest. To be clear to Miss C and Mr S as they 
have already received £1,740 for some of the flight costs from the package provider URV 
need to pay the hotel and transfer costs and airline cancellation fees that the package 
provider refused to pay. The package provider told us those costs are £1,030 and £1,110  
which ties in with the amount of about £2,200 Miss C and Mr S understood were the hotel 
costs the package provider refused to pay.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Miss C and Mr S claim for the hotel and 
transfer costs of £1,030 and airline cancellation fees of £1,110, plus interest* at 8% simple a 
year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.  *If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss C and Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss C and Mr S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman