DRN-2671762
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD (AXA mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA didnt sell the policy directly to Mrs C. it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility 
for this sale, so I shall refer to it as the seller in the rest of this decision.
What happened
Mrs C took out a store card in 2004 and PPI was sold alongside that card. The PPI 
wouldve covered her repayments on her card if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or was made unemployed. It also offered purchase and price protection.
Mrs C said PPI wasnt clearly explained to her and she wasnt given the option to take it 
out. She said she wasnt told about the benefits, restrictions or costs.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint because Mrs C said she wasnt working more 
than 16 hours per week at the time the PPI was sold to her. The adjudicator concluded 
that, on that basis, Mrs C wouldnt have been eligible to take out the policy.
AXA didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said Mrs C hadnt provided any further 
information to back up what shed said about her employment, and she hadnt 
mentioned this as a reason for why the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator asked Mrs C to provide some information to show that she was working 
less than 16 hours per week at the time of sale. Mrs C said she wasnt able to, as she had 
destroyed all her old work contracts.
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Cs complaint in February 2021, saying that I was 
minded not to uphold it. Mrs C didnt agree. Her representative said on her behalf that she 
had had other complaints upheld on the basis that she was working part-time and it couldnt 
understand what was different here.
Mrs Cs complaint comes back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case. Where the information is incomplete or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive reached my conclusions about what I think most 
likely happened based on the evidence Ive seen and the wider circumstances at the 
time. Having done so, and as theres no new information for me to consider, I am going 
to not uphold     Mrs Cs complaint. My reasons are the same as set out in my provisional 
decision, which I will repeat here.
Mrs C took out a store card and PPI by filling in an application form. AXA has supplied 
a copy of this form and I can see there is a separate section to select if the customer 
wants PPI. On the form, Mrs C signed separately to say she wanted PPI next to the 
yes section selecting PPI.
AXA had to make Mrs C aware that PPI was optional and had to give her enough clear 
and fair information about it, so that she could make an informed choice about whether 
she wanted to buy it. Mrs C accepts that AXA didnt recommend this policy to her. That 
means that AXA didnt have to consider the suitability of PPI for her needs.
Looking at the form Mrs C signed, I think it made it clear that PPI was optional. So, I 
think it likely she took PPI because she wanted the cover.
At the top of the form, I can see that it set out the eligibility criteria, including asking 
whether Mrs C or her partner worked more than 16 hours per week. Mrs C told us that she 
was working less than 16 hours per week at the time of sale. She hasnt provided any 
more information about that, she says she cant supply her contract of employment as she 
destroyed it when she moved. This sale took place a long time ago, so I can understand 
why Mrs C may not have these records now.
The only other information Ive been provided with is who she worked for. I havent been 
told whether this previous employer might still hold this information. I can see that its a 
well known company, still in business. But given that this goes back to 2004, its possible it 
no longer has a record of Mrs Cs employment either.
I havent been provided with any other information, or any explanation as to why Mrs 
C particularly recalls she was working part-time at that time, which might persuade me 
that most likely Mrs C was not working more than 16 hours per week at the time.
Based on the limited information available, I dont have enough to fairly find that Mrs C 
wasnt eligible at the time the PPI was sold to her. I think it just as likely that she was 
made aware of the eligibility criteria, and selected PPI because she was eligible to take 
it out. So, I cant reasonably uphold her complaint on this basis.
I cant see that the PPI was otherwise inappropriate for Mrs C. She said she wouldve got 
statutory sick pay only and had no other means of making her repayments. So, I think the 
PPI couldve provided her with useful protection to help her meet her repayments if she 
was out of work.
Mrs C didnt appear to be affected by any of the policies main limitations or exclusions, so 
I cant see that having better information about these things wouldve put her off taking out 
the cover.
The policy appeared to be affordable, and I cant see that if she had been provided with 
clearer information about the costs and benefits, she wouldve decided not to take PPI, 
given her circumstances.
Ive thought about what Mrs Cs said, that shes had other complaints upheld on the basis 
that she was  working part-time. But, as our adjudicator explained, we consider each case 
separately on its own facts and merits, so this can lead to different outcomes. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman