DRN-3670360
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund 
transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2021, Mr Ms card and PIN were used for around £2,900 of cash withdrawals and point of 
sale spending in the early hours of the morning. This was funded by a £5,000 transfer from 
Mr Ms savings account to his current account, made on his registered mobile phone.
Mr M explained that he kept his card in a wallet. He found that the card was missing the next 
day, though the rest of the wallets contents were untouched. He then checked his banking 
app, discovered the transactions, and spoke to Virgin. Hed returned to his accommodation 
before the disputed transactions started. He had not recorded his PIN anywhere or told it to 
anyone. His phone was with him at all times and he still had it afterwards. He was certain 
that this was not done by the friends he was with.
Virgin held Mr M liable for the payments in dispute. They found there was no likely or 
plausible way that they couldve been made without Mr Ms consent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree. He was particularly unhappy with how Virgin had handled his complaint. He 
was unhappy they hadnt blocked the payments. And he wanted our service to view CCTV 
footage the police had found, though the police were unable to provide this footage in a 
viewable format. The police confirmed they were unable to identify the people in the footage 
or prosecute anyone. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his case afresh for a final 
decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing that, Ive gone through all of the submissions from both sides, including everything 
that Mr M and his representative sent us. And Im grateful to them for being candid and open 
with us about their thoughts and about how this all made Mr M feel. I should explain that Im 
here to resolve complaints informally and impartially. So I wouldnt meet with either side 
personally, and Im not going to go through every argument on a point-by-point basis as a 
court might. Instead, Ill focus on what Ive found to be the key points. If Mr M would like his 
case to be looked at on a strict point-by-point basis, he is able to reject my decision and go 
to court instead  though Id always recommend seeking legal advice about court action.
Broadly speaking, Virgin could hold Mr M liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
supports that he authorised them.
Im satisfied from Virgins technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ms 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. This was not a case of a cloned card, nor was the PIN 
hacked in any sense as Mr Ms representative suggested. So I can see that these 
transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Mr M consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that someone who Mr M didnt know  such as a thief or 
fraudster  made the transactions.
While this is a more minor point, its notable that Mr M kept his card with other important 
belongings, but none of those were taken. And the disputed activity started over an hour and 
a half after Mr Ms last card payment. That does not fit well with the possibility of an unknown 
thief being involved. Its unlikely theyd take the card when he last used it, then wait so long 
to try any payments. And its unlikely theyd take the card from Mr Ms wallet later, then given 
him his wallet back  that would significantly increase their chances of being caught while 
actively reducing their own takings.
Similarly, I mightve expected a fraudster to try to withdraw as much money as possible, as 
quickly as possible before the card gets blocked. But here, despite checking the balance and 
being aware of all the money in Mr Ms account, the person using the card simply stopped 
using it long before it got blocked. Again, this does not fit well with the possibility of an 
unknown thief being involved.
More importantly, Mr M was adamant that his PIN was not recorded anywhere or told to 
anyone. And in the hours before the disputed payments started, Mr M had not entered his 
PIN at all, so there was no opportunity for someone to watch him entering it. Mr Ms last use 
of the PIN was about 12 hours prior, and it is not plausible that someone would overlook his 
PIN then follow him and wait 12 hours to steal his card, nor that they would steal the card at 
the time then wait 12 hours to use it. As I mentioned earlier, the PIN was not stored on the 
card itself and cannot be accessed or hacked in the way Mr Ms representative suggested. 
And while I accept that the person using the card took some time at the ATM, that does not 
have any bearing on the fact that they clearly knew the right PIN  they entered it correctly 
from the very first try. So based on the evidence at hand, there is not a likely or plausible 
way that someone could have known Mr Ms PIN without his consent.
Whats also very significant is that the disputed payments were funded by a large online 
transfer from Mr Ms savings account to his current account. This was done just as Mr Ms 
current account was nearing its limit. And without this, the person using the card could not 
have kept using it. So I think this was done in order to make the disputed payments possible. 
This transfer was made on Mr Ms registered mobile phone. The person making the transfer 
needed physical access to Mr Ms phone, as well as the ability to get through both Mr Ms 
banking app security and the lock of the phone itself. It appears that this was done at least 
partly using Mr Ms biometric facial ID. And Mr M had his phone with him at all times, and it 
didnt go missing. From everything both sides have told us, the only person who could have 
likely done this was Mr M or someone hed given his permission to.Mr Ms representative argued someone could have spiked his drink and used his Face ID 
while he was asleep. But Mr M never mentioned passing out or being unwell before, and his 
representative also confirmed Mr M was not drunk or incapacitated that night, so it seems 
their other testimony ruled out this possibility. Further, Mr M said hed already returned to his 
accommodation before the disputed payments started, and he had his phone with him there. 
I do not think its likely or plausible that a thief was able to access Mr Ms accommodation 
without anyone noticing, nor find and take Mr Ms phone then scan his face without him or 
his friends noticing. Its not even clear how theyd be able to find where Mr M was staying, 
not least given the card usage was in a different part of town, nor how they even knew Mr M 
had a savings account with the same bank and with enough funds, and so on. And again, 
I dont think a thief was likely to give Mr M his phone or other valuables back. Put simply, 
I am satisfied that this is not a plausible possibility.
So there is not a likely plausible way that an unknown party did this.
Next, Ive considered the possibility that someone known to Mr M may have made the 
transactions without his permission, such as a friend or family member. But I dont think 
thats likely either. For example, again its not likely theyd be able to take Mr Ms card from 
his wallet without him noticing, and it certainly doesnt seem likely theyd be able to access 
his phone and banking app or use his own biometrics without his permission. Further, Mr M 
and his representative have repeatedly testified that the only known parties with him were 
friends who they were certain had not carried out any payments without Mr Ms consent. So 
it seems that they have effectively ruled out this possibility themselves.
Lastly, Ive considered the possibility that Mr M could have made these payments himself or 
given someone else permission to make them. That fits very well with the evidence at hand. 
Indeed, given the way the payments were made, its the only likely or plausible possibility 
remaining. Ive not seen any evidence that makes me think its implausible or unlikely that 
the payments couldve been made with Mr Ms consent.
Mr Ms representative questioned why a £13.99 payment got reversed. From what I can see, 
that was Mr Ms regular Netflix subscription, which Netflix attempted to take using his old 
card details.
Mr Ms representative also expressed suspicions about the merchant where a lot of the 
money was spent. I do not have any power or jurisdiction to investigate the merchant, I can 
only look into financial institutions. I have not seen anything which actually substantiates or 
shows that the merchant was fraudulent in any sense. And the fact remains that the 
payments were made in such a way that it was not likely or plausible for them to have been 
made without Mr Ms consent.
I do understand that Mr M and his representative feel strongly about the CCTV footage 
involved. And its a shame that this wasnt able to be provided to us despite the numerous 
deadline extensions. But from everything that Mr M and the police have told us, I dont think 
it was relevant to the outcome of the case with our service anyway. Because even if I accept 
that the footage shows Mr M wasnt present at the transactions, the police were unable to 
identify who was present. It was still perfectly possible for Mr M to have given those people 
permission to make the payments on his behalf. The footage would not have shown whether 
they had Mr Ms consent or not  which is the very main thing we need to consider. And 
based on all the other evidence, its not likely or plausible that the payments were made 
without Mr Ms consent, but it is a likely and plausible possibility that Mr M gave someone his 
consent to make them.I have also taken into account all of the arguments about whether Virgin should have 
blocked the payments. But given that Ive found the payments were most likely authorised, 
I do not agree that Virgin should have blocked them. 
Lastly, I do understand that Mr M is most unhappy with how Virgin handled his complaint. 
I should explain that our service is only allowed to consider cases about certain activities  
such as processing payments or dealing with disputed transactions. But handling complaints 
is not an activity we cover in and of itself. So the complaint-handling issues Mr M raised are 
not strictly within our remit.
With that said, I will note that even if Mr M was not satisfied with Virgins final response, the 
letter they sent does indeed constitute a final response, and I can see it was sent to him 
since he gave us a copy himself. Having listened to the call where Mr M said the staff 
member was unprofessional, I found that the staff member was just trying to be sympathetic, 
and were taking a friendly but polite tone. I appreciate that it may have been frustrating for 
Mr M to get mixed messages about whether his complaint would succeed, but until their 
investigation was over it wasnt possible for Virgin to know for certain. Ultimately, I agree 
with the outcome Virgin came to, so it would not be fair for me to award compensation there.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ms genuine card, PIN, and mobile phone were used to 
make the disputed payments. Based on the evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown 
person did this, or that someone known to Mr M did this without his permission  indeed, 
Mr M himself seems to have ruled out that possibility. That leaves only one likely possibility  
that Mr M made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr M to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Virgin to decline a refund in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman