DRN-2167300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Black Horse Limited trading as Black Horse Finance (Black 
Horse) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs B took out PPI alongside a loan they arranged over the phone. 
The policy was one they had to pay for each month to keep it running and it provided life and 
critical illness cover for Mr B.
The policy cost around £13 a month.
At the time Mr B was employed. He told us that he wasnt entitled to sick pay and he didnt 
have any other ways to pay the loan if he wasnt working. Mrs B was also in paid work.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding Mr and Mrs Bs mis-sale complaint and said 
that the payment Black Horse had offered to make in relation to commission and profit share 
was a fair way to settle the dispute.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. Mainly they said that when they applied for this loan absolutely no 
information about PPI was given to them either verbally or in written form and the PPI was 
added without their consent. They say that they were completely unaware of the PPI on their 
account and, if the PPI information had been presented to them in a clear and 
non-mis-leading way, they wouldve declined the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B dont feel that our adjudicator has given proper consideration to what they say 
about how they were sold this PPI.
So their complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case. Although the insurance policy Mr and Mrs B 
bought provided Life and Critical Illness Cover I think the issues to take into account are 
largely the same.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs B feel our adjudicator didnt take fully into account everything theyve 
said or give due weight to what theyve told us they remember about the sale. Id like to 
reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold this mis-sale complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt choose to take out PPI and that it was attached without them 
knowing about it. But what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
It seems they were sold this PPI by phone. Theres no call recording of that phone call so 
I cant know exactly what was said about the PPI. 
But Black Horse has provided a call script which it says its adviser wouldve followed when 
speaking with Mr and Mrs B on the phone.
It looks like customers were told at the start that their loan had been agreed in principle 
before there was any discussion about PPI  and thats what Id expect to happen as that 
was really the main point of the call from the customers point of view.
After dealing with the loan details, the adviser was then prompted to say: As part of our 
discussion about your loan, I would like to discuss our optional Payment Protection Plan.
The adviser shouldve gone on to explain that customers would be asked a series of 
questions and said: If the answers you give me indicate that you have no need for payment 
protection, I will tell you...
Of course, knowing what the adviser shouldve said on the call doesnt mean thats exactly 
what happened word for word. I dont know in Mr and Mrs Bs case if the adviser followed 
the script exactly. 
But it seems clear that a call like this took place because Ive seen the record of the answers 
Mr and Mrs B provided in response to the questions the adviser asked  and this seems to 
follow the script. 
So it seems likely to me that this script reflects the type of discussion Black Horse had with 
Mr and Mrs B at the time. And I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve been made aware during the 
phone call that PPI was optional  although its completely understandable if theyve 
forgotten this now.
And this is borne out by the loan paperwork from the time  including Mr and Mrs Bs loan 
agreement. 
The loan agreement had a separate box for PPI headed (in bold block capitals) OPTIONAL 
PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN. Mr and Mrs B both signed here next to where it said on 
the form: I wish to purchase the optional Payment Protection Plan 
This section also set out the name of the person being covered  in this case Mr B, as well 
as the monthly cost and the level of cover he was taking out  life and critical illness cover.
And whats on the loan agreement reflects the information thats shown on the record of 
Mr and Mrs Bs discussion on the phone and the answers they provided to questions asked 
about their circumstances. 
The Demands and Needs information recorded for Mr and Mrs B appears to show that life 
and critical illness cover only was the level of cover they wanted  and not any of the other 
cover that was available. So looking at all this information, as I must do, I dont think Ive seen enough fairly to be able 
to say that Black Horse added on PPI to Mr and Mrs Bs loan without their knowledge or 
consent. 
On balance, the information Ive seen shows that Black Horse did enough to enable 
Mr and Mrs B to understand that having PPI was optional. And that Mr and Mrs B chose to 
take out the level of cover they opted for in the knowledge that it was up to them to say what, 
if any, protection they wanted to have.
Black Horse personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that it was 
right for them. 
And it had to give Mr and Mrs B enough clear information about the recommended cover so 
they could decide whether to go ahead or not.
Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time I think PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs B.
It looks like when asked Mr and Mrs B said they were in good health but they didnt have 
enough means to take care of the loan repayments in the event of unexpected 
unemployment and Mr B wasnt sure if he could make the monthly repayments on the loan if 
he was unable to work because of accident or sickness.
They appear to have answered No to having enough existing insurance or employee 
benefits to repay their loan in the event of death or suffering a critical illness. 
And they said that they would like their loan to be repaid in those circumstances.
This led to the adviser making a recommendation that they both took out full PPI and 
protected themselves against accident, sickness and unemployment and life and critical 
illness.
In the event, Mr and Mrs B seem to have told the adviser they didnt agree to that 
recommendation and ended up taking out life and critical illness cover for Mr B only. 
Mr B was eligible for the cover. 
He was in good health at the time, so he wasnt caught by any significant policy exclusions 
or limitations.
Given Mr Bs age and his lack of any alternative means to pay the loan if he was affected by 
a life limiting condition or if he died, it appears to me that he had a need for cover.
I havent seen anything to make me think this cover wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs B.
So, I think the PPI recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Its possible that some of the information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
The policy cost shouldve been explained during the phone call  I dont know if that 
happened. 
Information about the cost of the cover was set out on the loan agreement. This wouldve 
been sent to Mr and Mrs B after the phone call when they agreed to take out the PPI. But Mr and Mrs B wouldve been able to see what theyd have to pay for the cover theyd 
selected before signing up to the agreement. 
And if Mr and Mrs B hadnt been happy to pay for the level of cover theyd chosen, or they 
changed their minds about having it, I think its likely they wouldve taken this up with Black 
Horse at the time. I cant see anything to suggest they did that. 
And given the benefits this PPI offered Mr and Mrs B, and their need for the protection life 
cover and critical illness cover provided, I dont think having clearer information about the 
policy wouldve been enough to put Mr and Mrs B off taking it out. 
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken the policy out.
So, I dont think the policy was mis- sold and so Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
Black Horse got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Black Horse 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
I appreciate that what I've said in my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. But 
I hope that setting things out as I've done will help explain how I've come to my conclusions. 
what the business needs to do
Black Horse has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Black Horse should also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra interest they paid because of 
that.
So Black Horse should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Black Horse should also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B havent lost out to the extent that 
Black Horse Limited should pay back to Mr and Mrs B all of the cost of the PPI.
But Black Horse Limited does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.I understand it has done this already. So it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman