DRN-3280448
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it settled liability following a claim under her motor insurance policy.
Mrs Ds complaint has been advanced by her representative but for ease I will refer to her 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs D made a claim under her motor insurance policy after her daughter, a named driver on 
the policy, was involved in an accident on a roundabout. Admiral looked into the claim for her 
and initially looked to settle the claim on a split liability (50/50) basis. 
As Mrs D wasnt happy about this it looked to defend her daughters position. But when it 
considered the matter in full and appointed an independent assessor to look at the 
circumstances surrounding the accident it concluded that it couldnt defend the claim and 
settled the matter as a fault claim. So Mrs D complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D but she didnt uphold the complaint. Although 
she sympathised with Mrs D and her daughter she didnt think Admiral had done anything 
wrong. This was because she was satisfied it had fully investigated the circumstances 
surrounding the accident and reached a reasonable conclusion about liability. 
As Mrs D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know that this will be very disappointing 
for Mrs D, but Ill explain why.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Mrs D, her daughter and her representative 
have found all of this. I say this as Mrs Ds daughter was at the scene when the incident 
happened and knows full well what did and didnt happen.
But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is 
a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Admiral, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows them to take over 
the settlement of Mrs Ds claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court 
or settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are 
cautious about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of 
success in making these decisions and have significant experience in this area.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
Admiral handled Mrs Ds claim.
It is clear that Admiral looked to defend Mrs Ds daughter and didnt just accept the other 
sides position. I say this as even though it suggested that the matter would most likely be 
settled on a split liability basis when the claim was reported Admiral appointed an 
independent assessor to consider the accident and looked to defend her. Admiral took a 
detailed look at the circumstances surrounding the accident and considered the independent 
assessors report  who had interviewed the named driver, looked at the physical road layout 
and photographs of the location and provided a report of their findings. 
Having considered all of this and looking to try and defend Mrs D and her daughter, Admiral 
eventually accepted liability. I know Mrs D isnt happy about this and says that her daughter 
was entitled to be in the left-hand lane when turning right at the roundabout, but Admiral 
considered this alongside the highway code and concluded that it would be held at fault if the 
matter went to court. I know Mrs D doesnt feel this is fair but from looking at the evidence I 
dont think this position is unreasonable. And the courts want insurers to be sensible about 
the chances of success when proceeding to court, so I think Admiral have acted fairly here. 
I note that Mrs D has said she knows someone who completed a similar move to her 
daughter on the same roundabout and wasnt found at fault. However, every case is different 
and so I cant comment on that case and I havent been presented with the finer detail. 
But, ultimately, the independent assessor said that Mrs Ds daughter was travelling in the 
wrong lane on the roundabout. And as she wasnt aware of the other driver until the time of 
impact it is difficult to see how she wouldnt be held at least partly at fault (50/50) for this 
accident if the matter proceeded to court. Which would still leave her with a fault claim in any 
event. Given all of this, and the fact that there wasnt any independent witnesses, I cant 
conclude that Admiral has acted unreasonably. 
Finally, I can see that Admiral has paid a small amount of compensation as the investigator 
suggested in his meeting that he had done a similar manoeuvre to her on the same 
roundabout. This led Mrs D to believe his report would support her daughters position. 
Without corroborative evidence it is difficult to say what was said during the meeting, but the 
independent assessors final view was clear in his report. And so, I think Admirals offer of a 
small amount of compensation for any misunderstanding seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman