DRN-3070324
The complaint
Mr E complains that the loans he had from TFS Loans Limited were unaffordable to him.
  
What happened
Mr E had two guarantor loans with TFS Loans in September 2014 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 8 Sep 2014 £2,000 48m £83.89 N/A Replaced
2 12 Sep 2014 £3,000 48m £125.84 18 Sep 2018 28 Mar 2019
Mr E says that his expenditure exceeded his income at the time of the loan and he was 
borrowing more to repay arrears. He says it led to the breakdown of his relationship.
TFS Loans says it asked Mr E about his income and calculated his average earnings from 
his payslips. It says it confirmed the purpose of the loan and checked Mr Es credit file. TFS 
Loans says that, following a detailed discussion about Mr Es other expenditure, it was 
satisfied further checks were not required and it found the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that TFS Loans 
should have seen further lending was unsustainable for Mr E. He recommended TFS Loans 
should deduct the payments Mr E made from the principal and refund overpayments with 8% 
interest. He said it should also ensure adverse information is removed from Mr Es credit file.
TFS Loans responded to say, in summary, that the defaults on Mr Es account were three 
years prior to the loan and their balances were decreasing. It said the loan was for debt 
consolidation and its calculations showed the repayments were affordable.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS Loans lent to Mr E. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that TFS Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Es case, Ive considered whether:
TFS Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Es 
loan application to satisfy itself hed be able to sustainably repay the loan? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
TFS Loans made a fair lending decision?
TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As loan 2 replaced loan 1 shortly after it was taken out, and no repayments were made on 
loan 1, I need only to consider loan 2 in this decision.
Ive seen evidence to show TFS Loans asked about Mr Es financial circumstances, checked 
his credit file and verified his income. The checks showed:
Mr Es salary was just under £1,200 per month;His declared rental was £310 per month and his other expenditure, excluding credit 
commitments, came to around £200;
Mr Es credit file had:
o14 defaults on it - two were satisfied and the most recent was in May 2013;
oMonthly repayments of over £400 on three of the defaulted accounts;
oA loan that had been taken out in March 2014 with £197 monthly repayments;
oA County Court Judgement dated 16 December 2013.
Mr E said the new loan was for debt consolidation.
Based on the information it had, I consider TFS Loans had enough evidence to make a fair 
lending decision. However, I find it was irresponsible to have approved the loan because:
The term was 48 months and repayments needed to be sustainable for that period;
Affordability calculations should have shown Mr E did not have sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably make the repayments;
Even if Mr E used the money to consolidate his debts, the number of defaults and the 
value of them meant hed still have significant credit commitments going forwards;
The County Court Judgement was from less than nine months earlier indicating Mr E 
was struggling to manage his existing debt relatively recently.
I think TFS Loans should have seen Mr E was already struggling to manage his money and 
further lending was unsustainable. So I dont find TFS Loans made a fair lending decision.
 
My final decision
  My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr E received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr E made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr E having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman