DRN-3969058
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I dont think theres sufficient evidence this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to her and Im not asking MotoNovo to take any 
action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 79,000 miles. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a 
brand new car.
The third party garage report provided by Miss M suggests there was a thermostat housing 
leak and a leaking head gasket. It also mentions that brake discs are lipped, air conditioning 
isnt working properly, theres a split dust cover on a suspension ball joint, a torn door seal, 
and that running lights are inoperable on one side. 
MotoNovo are only responsible for issues that make the car of unsatisfactory quality and that 
were present or developing on the car when it was supplied to Miss M. I dont think the 
brakes, suspension, or running light problems could have been present when the car was 
supplied as it passed an MOT shortly beforehand with no advisories. 
I think the other issues are fair wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. I can 
understand Miss M will be very disappointed that the car developed a water leak and a failed 
head gasket that may, or may not, be related to that water leak, within seven months of 
taking receipt of the car. But the expert independent engineer has explained he doesnt think 
its likely the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied to Miss M, and 
whilst the report completed by Miss Ms nominated technician in October 2022, identifies the 
fault with the gasket, he makes no finding on whether the issue was present or developing 
when the car was supplied. And as it had completed about 83,000 miles when the fault 
occurred I dont think it would be fair to say the car hadnt been durable, and therefore of 
unsatisfactory quality, either.
Miss M also says she was promised the car had a full service history but as the advert for 
the car hasnt been supplied to me, I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is sufficient 
evidence she was told that or that the car was misrepresented to her for that reason.
I dont, therefore, think MotoNovo have been unreasonable rejecting Miss Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman