DRN-3242206
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited administered her motor 
insurance policy so that she was disqualified from driving. She seeks significant 
compensation for the stress and losses she suffered. 
What happened
Mrs H was stopped by the police and Hastings told it, incorrectly, she wasnt insured to drive 
the car she was in. Mrs Hs car was impounded. Hastings agreed it had made an error and it 
reimbursed the impound fee and paid Mrs H £100 compensation. 
But Hastings didnt take actions to rectify this and so Mrs H was disqualified and fined. Mrs H 
attended court, and this was overturned. Mrs H said she wasnt able to drive her car for 20 
days. Mrs H said this caused her and her family inconvenience and loss of earnings. She 
was also caused stress by the matter and having to attend court. Hastings offered Mrs H 
£500 further compensation. But Mrs H thought it should pay her in excess of £40,000 
compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
hadnt taken the actions it should have to stop the case proceeding to court and so avoiding 
the driving disqualification. He thought Mrs H had been through a traumatic time because of 
Hastings errors. He thought there had been an impact on Mrs Hs health and her family. He 
thought Mrs H had to spend a significant amount of time on this and she had to travel to 
court. 
He thought Hastings should pay Mrs H £2,000 in total compensation for her trouble and 
inconvenience. Mrs H also said she had been caused loss of earnings due to not being able 
to drive and having to deal with the matter. Mrs H hadnt provided evidence of this. So he 
thought Mrs H should provide this as Hastings had already agreed to review this. But he 
didnt think Hastings needed to reimburse Mrs H for her legal costs as they were incurred 
whilst seeking advice against Hastings. 
Hastings agreed to pay Mrs H £2,000 compensation. And it agreed to review any evidence 
provided of Mrs Hs loss of earnings. But Mrs H thought she should be awarded £25,000 in 
total compensation, though she would settle with £15,000 to close matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a very difficult and stressful time for Mrs H and her 
family. Hastings has agreed that it made mistakes. There was the initial error in not 
confirming that Mrs H was covered to drive the car she was in when she was stopped by the 
police. But I think Hastings put this right by refunding the impound fee and paying Mrs H 
£100 compensation. 
But then Hastings should have contacted the police to stop any prosecution. But it didnt. So 
Mrs H was served with a fixed penalty notice which she sent to Hastings. But it didnt act on 
this. She was then charged and disqualified. But Hastings didnt act to prevent this. 
Fortunately, Mrs H was able to arrange an urgent court hearing where the disqualification 
and fine were overturned. Hastings did call the Motor Insurers Board (MIB) before the 
hearing, but this wasnt enough to halt proceedings. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I think Mrs Hs position has been restored, through her own efforts, so Ill go on to consider 
the impact of Hastings error. 
I think Mrs H was caused a significant level of avoidable stress and upset by Hastings errors:
She was frequently in contact with Hastings to try and get it to act to prevent the 
prosecution and she was frustrated when it didnt act as it had agreed. 
Mrs H was disqualified from driving and the conviction could have affected her career. 
This must have been worrying for her.
Mrs H has provided evidence that she had to attend court in person to have the 
disqualification overturned. She has explained that, apart from the inconvenience for her 
and her husband, this was very stressful and upsetting. 
Mrs H said she was also caused losses by being unable to drive:
Mrs H said she was unable to take on work during this time. But I havent seen any 
evidence to show this. Mrs H has provided evidence of her usual hourly rate. But, 
despite agreeing to provide this some five months ago, she hasnt provided evidence 
that not being able to drive her car led to her not being able to work and to a loss of 
earnings. I note too that this was during the period when people were asked to work from 
home. We also expect consumers to mitigate their losses. And I cant see that Mrs H has 
explained why she couldnt use alternative transport if it was essential for her to travel for 
work. 
Mrs H said that dealing with this matter over several months took her away from her 
work, leading to a loss of earnings. I can see that Mrs H spent time, which she shouldnt 
have had to, dealing with the matter. But I havent seen evidence of a billable loss of 
earnings due to this. 
Mrs H was unable to drive for 20 days after the disqualification until the MIB records had 
been updated. She said this caused upset to her usual family routine. But again I note 
that this was during the lockdown period when activities were limited. And, again, I think 
it was for Mrs H to mitigate her losses. 
Mrs H and her husband had to take the time to attend the court hearing. And I agree that 
this could have been avoided but for Hastings errors. 
Mrs H said she paid for a solicitors advice in dealing with this matter. But, as our 
investigator has explained, this isnt something that I can ask Hastings to reimburse 
because the advice was against Hastings. 
Hastings thought Mrs H could have mitigated her losses by providing the police with her 
complaint outcome letter and its emails. But I think Hastings had agreed to act to stop the 
prosecution on at least three occasions, but it failed to do so. Hastings response to Mrs Hs 
complaint was an unspecific closure letter. I dont think this its fair or reasonable for 
Hastings to expect Mrs H to try and use this to avoid prosecution. 
Taking into account the overall emotional impact of Hastings errors on Mrs H and the 
evidence of her losses, I agree with the investigator that £2,000 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. This is because its in keeping with our published guidance for when there is a 
significant impact on consumers. Hastings has already agreed to pay this amount. And I think it should still honour its offer to 
consider Mrs Hs loss of earnings. But Mrs H needs to provide evidence of her actual billable 
losses when she was disqualified and that she couldnt take on the work due to not being 
able to drive and couldnt work from home.
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs H £2,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. And I require it to consider Mrs Hs 
loss of earnings during the period of her disqualification on provision of reasonable evidence 
of her billable losses due to her disqualification.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman