DRN-2361107
The complaint
Mr O says Provident Personal Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home credit loans Provident provided to Mr O between June and 
October 2016. Mr Os first loan was for £200 and was repaid in instalments of £13 per week. 
The second loan was for £500 and was repaid in weekly instalments of £30.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint and thought Providents checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. 
As Mr O asked for am ombudsmans review, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Os complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Provident has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr O about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a weekly income of between £300 and £450. Provident also checked     
Mr Os normal weekly living costs. Mr O declared these as between £95 and £110 per week. 
So, on the face of it, the loans looked affordable and there doesnt appear to be anything in 
that information that ought to have prompted Provident to do further checks. 
Mr O has provided a copy of his credit report and this shows that at the time he took out 
these loans he had several defaults and outstanding debts. He was also in a few debt 
management plans. But Mr O was very early on in his lending relationship with Provident. He 
only borrowed two loans within a four-month period. So, I wouldnt have expected Provident 
to carry out further checks at such an early stage in the borrowing relationship and as such, 
it wouldnt have been aware of Mr Os financial difficulties. And even though Mr O had to 
make weekly repayments, the highest combined weekly repayment would have appeared 
affordable based on the information he had declared to Provident.  
So, I think it was reasonable of Provident to have relied on what Mr O told it. I think these 
factors had an impact on what level of checks would have been appropriate for Provident to 
carry out. Given these, I think the checks Provident did before lending either of the loans 
went far enough and the checks it carried out showed the loans were affordable. So, I 
wouldnt have expected Provident at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr O declared to Provident at the time of taking the loans out may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Provident was entitled 
to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Provident knew 
about Mr O, I wouldnt have expected Provident to verify the information Mr O gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Provident have done something wrong in lending to Mr O. 
I appreciate that Mr O has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint and Im sorry to hear 
about Mr Os health problems and financial difficulties. And I know my findings are likely to 
disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman