DRN-3166970
The complaint
R, a limited company, has complained New Wave Capital Limited, trading as Capital on Tap, 
continues to hold them liable for a debt that isnt theirs.
Mr A is a director of R and represents R in their complaint.
What happened
In December 2019 after being pursued for a debt by a company (who Ill call L), Mr A 
complained to Capital on Tap. As far as he was concerned R had never applied for the credit 
card in its name which was related to this debt. Capital on Tap believed as theyd sold the 
debt to L, it was no longer their responsibility to consider Rs fraud claim.
Mr A brought Rs complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided to us by Capital on Tap. This included 
copies of Mr A holding his passport which had been used as an ID check when setting up 
the credit card. On this basis our investigator felt it was most likely R had taken out the credit 
agreement.
Mr A showed that the transactions  relating to the £4,000 spent on the credit card  could 
not have been completed by him. He also indicated that he knew whod been living in the 
property  a previous business address for R  and how theyd have been able to commit 
the fraud.
Our investigator revised her view and confirmed she didnt think R had taken out the credit 
card. She asked Capital on Tap to sort out what had happened and pay R £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Capital on Tap subsequently confirmed they were aware of a discrepancy between the bank 
account information they held on record relating to Rs application and Mr A. However they 
still believed R could have been collusive in the fraud. They asked an ombudsman to 
consider Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If R didnt complete the credit card 
application or benefit from the money, can Capital on Tap still hold it liable? 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from Capital on Tap including details 
of the credit card application which was completed online along with the supporting evidence 
they collated to complete their ID checks. Weve also got evidence from Mr A, on Rs behalf, 
including evidence which shows where Mr A was at times the credit card was being used 
elsewhere. 
Based on the most recent testimony from Capital on Tap, I dont believe theres now any 
dispute: R didnt take out the credit card. They have confirmed that the banking details 
belonged to another person resident at the address previously used by R (but not lived at by 
Mr A). The card was sent to this previous business address. Email and mobile phone 
numbers differ from those of Mr A. Whilst its not unusual for people to use different phones 
and email addresses, theres nothing to suggest here that the details on the application 
match R or Mr A.
As business correspondence was sent to this previous address, Im satisfied that the 
individual living there had enough information which they could use to make a fraudulent 
application in Rs name.
Based on this, Im satisfied R didnt apply for the credit card.
Ive seen from Mr As evidence that he  and the individual who appeared to be using the 
credit card  were often in different locations. Mr A has shared a work log which shows he 
was providing work services at the same time fraudulent transactions were taking place.
Ive seen nothing to indicate that R has benefitted in any way from these transactions.
Ive considered Capital on Taps argument that R could have been collusive in this fraud. I 
accept this possibility. 
However taking into consideration the effort Mr A has gone to in showing someone else was 
committing this fraud, I dont think this is the most likely situation here. Id suggest that he 
would have been taking a large risk with Rs reputation and the impact this potentially could 
have on his credit record by being collusive in a fraud where R was being pursued for the 
debt.
Overall I believe R didnt apply for this credit card. As Capital on Tap has no contractual 
agreement with R and I cant see that R benefitted from the funds, they cant ask R to repay 
the money or lodge any data about this agreement on R  or Mr As  credit record. 
Putting things right
On the basis Ive decided R didnt take out this credit card, or benefit from it, I will be asking 
Capital on Tap to clear any information from Rs credit record about this credit card, cancel 
the credit card and stop asking R or Mr A to repay any debt. 
Im aware that Capital on Tap has already sold this debt on to a debt recovery agent, L. 
Theyll need to make arrangements with L to ensure they also take no action to pursue Mr A 
or R for the debt. I leave it up to them to decide what arrangements are suitable as long as 
there is no impact on R.
Capital on Tap was insistent that they had no liability for reviewing whether fraud had 
happened at the point of application because theyd subsequently sold the debt. They 
argued this was for L to consider. This is incorrect and Im sure this added to the 
inconvenience R had gone through in trying to get things sorted. On this basis I believe its 
fair R is given £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I may have considered other redress but in this case where the complainant is a limited 
company, our rules dont allow us to offer compensation for the trouble and distress caused 
to Mr A personally.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct New Wave Capital Limited, trading 
as Capital on Tap, to, in liaison with L:
Cancel the credit card in Rs name; 
Stop pursuing R for repayment of a credit card debt as it didnt apply for it; and
Remove any information from Rs credit record (and Mr A if applicable) relating to this 
credit card, including any default data.
Pay R £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman