DRN-1253539
The complaint
Ms Q complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited, has unfairly increased the premium on her 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Q had buildings and contents insurance which was arranged via a broker. In 2017 the 
insurer changed to Fairmead and the premium reduced but when the policy renewed in 2018 
the cost of the policy increased by nearly £100. 
Unhappy with this increase, Ms Q complained to Fairmead, but it didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said that the increase was as a result of her claims experience and an active 
subsidence claim. Ms Q brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
the matter but found that Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly. 
Ms Q disagreed with our investigator and as the complaint couldnt be resolved, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what it should 
charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would be in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. 
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different premiums based on its 
assessment of risk. One insurer may decide its taking a significant risk insuring a particular 
property, whereas another insurer might not  and there will be different factors and reasons 
for each insurers decision. And insurers will evaluate their premiums on a regular basis to 
ensure that they can cover any overheads, such as the cost of claims and any administration 
services. Its up to the insurer to decide what its insurance will cost, so I cant say the cost of 
Ms Qs policy is too high. But I do need to be satisfied that Ms Q hasnt been singled out in 
any way. So, Ive looked to see whether Fairmead has treated all comparable customers 
fairly and equally.
Fairmead has provided documentation which shows that when there is an ongoing 
subsidence claim at a property, its guidelines are to apply a percentage increase to the 
premium. It also says that, in this situation, it increases the excess that would apply to claims 
made for subsidence. Ms Qs property was suffering from subsidence and a claim had been 
made for the repairs. Fairmead has therefore applied the increase to her premium based on 
its guidelines.
These guidelines are applicable to all of Fairmeads policies, not just the one held by Ms Q. 
Whilst Ms Qs premium has seen a significant increase, from the evidence Ive seen Im 
satisfied she has been treated in the same way as Fairmead would do any other policyholder 
in the same position. 
Im also aware that Fairmead didnt correctly charge Ms Q in the previous policy year which 
meant the premium in 2017 was actually lower than it should have been. Fairmead has 
confirmed as this was an error, it wont be asking for any additional payment. So, it therefore 
follows that I don't think Ms Q has lost out because of anything Fairmead has done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Ms Qs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman