DRN-1992913
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was left out of pocket after a no-fault motor accident whilst insured 
by Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
Mr P took out car insurance with Admiral for his vehicle. In October 2019, he then had a no-
fault accident which caused cosmetic damage. 
In managing this claim, Admiral assessed the value of the car to be £3140. Admiral s 
engineer assessed the cost to repair the damage to be £2200.80, which was around 70% of 
the value of the car. So, they decided it was uneconomical to repair and progressed the 
claim as a total loss. They offered to pay Mr P the market value of the car in settlement of his 
claim. 
Mr P asked Admiral if he could keep the car and get the repairs done himself, as he had a 
cheaper quote from a local garage. Admiral agreed to this. But, Mr Ps car was subject to a 
finance agreement. Mr P says the finance company told him Admiral had put a blocker on 
the finance and it would need to be paid off in full. This, combined with the need to get a new 
MOT after the accident, meant that he didnt keep the car. 
The market value of the car was paid to the finance company by Admiral. At the time of the 
accident, Mr P says the balance remaining on that agreement was £1,500 more than the 
market value of the car. So, Mr P says he was left out of pocket to that amount, as he 
needed to pay the finance off in full. 
Admiral said that they were unable to comment on the actions of the finance company and 
so Mr P referred the complaint to our service. The view of our investigator was that Admiral 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and didnt need to do anything more as a 
result of this complaint. Mr P didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is unhappy that he has been left out of pocket after an accident 
when his car was stationery and it wasnt his fault. But, I have to consider if Admiral applied 
the terms and conditions of the policy fairly.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
2. What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
- pay to repair your car, or
- pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the settlement, or
ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts replaced were already worn
or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that has been removed from your car
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or items
claimed for.
I think that Admiral have fairly applied the terms of this policy, and Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions allow Admiral the right to choose if they want to repair the car or if 
they want to pay the customer the market value of the car. They chose the latter in Mr Ps 
case. But even though the terms and conditions allowed them to make that choice, they also 
gave Mr P the option of keeping the car and paying for the repairs himself. This goes beyond 
what they needed to do according to the terms and conditions. 
The value Admiral placed on the car was the higher of the three independent valuations they 
got. The difference between the value of the car and the amount of finance outstanding is an 
acknowledged risk when taking out car finance. Standard car insurance isnt designed to 
cover this loss. There is separate insurance available to protect against that risk  
Guarantee Asset Protection (GAP) insurance, which may have covered the loss suffered by 
Mr P in this case. Unfortunately, Mr P didnt have this kind of cover.
Mr P says that the finance company told him that Admiral put a blocker on the car, which 
meant be had to pay the remainder of the finance off in full rather than on a monthly basis. I 
am unsure what the finance company are referring to as a blocker. Whilst I can see why Mr 
P feels this is linked to his complaint, Admiral cant answer to what the finance company 
have said or done. I also cant see anything in any of the evidence I have to show Admiral 
have attempted to stop the finance company from providing finance.
Although this complaint doesnt concern Mr Ps finance company, in my experience, its not 
uncommon for a car finance company to ask for a finance agreement be paid off in full if the 
car is deemed a write-off. This may be what Mr P has understood the blocker to be. This is 
because the finance is secured on the vehicle, and so if the customer doesnt pay, they will 
take away the car and sell it to settle the debt. If the car no longer exists, the debt is 
vulnerable to not being settled. Also, if Mr P decided to keep the car and repair it, it would be 
classed as an insurance write-off and the market value of the car would be much lower. So, 
the finance company would have been in a similar position. 
I can certainly see why Mr P is unhappy with how this claim turned out. It seems unfair that 
anyone should be out of pocket after a no-fault claim. But I cant fairly say that Admiral are to 
blame for that. Admiral also arent accountable for any action the finance company may have 
taken or GAP insurance not being taken out to cover this loss. 
For all of these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint and dont ask Admiral to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Deborah Hall
Ombudsman