DRN-3469976
The complaint
Mr N, on behalf of N, says Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has not paid the 
full cashback incentive it committed to as part of the business banking switching scheme.
What happened
Mr N moved Ns business banking to Virgin Money from another bank. He expected an 
incentive payment of £4,210  and says this was confirmed in an email from Virgin Money  
but he received £1,275. He wants Virgin Money to pay the difference into Ns account.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said the incentive payment varied based 
on turnover. It was the other bank that confirmed the amount that should be credited based 
on Ns turnover. And this was lower than the figure Mr N had given on a call to Virgin Money. 
So Virgin Money had made no error that it needed to correct.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr N asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says that Virgin Money confirmed he would receive £4,210 by email and so must credit 
his account with the difference. 
The terms of the switching incentive meant it was calculated based on the turnover of the 
business. So as the actual turnover (confirmed to be less than £15,000 by the old bank) was 
much lower than the £250,000 Mr N quoted, the cashback paid was lower. 
I have listened to the call that led to the email, and reviewed the email, and it is clear that the 
£4,210 was linked to the higher turnover figure of £250,000 that Mr N provided on the call. At 
no point did Virgin Money commit to make that payment irrespective of turnover. The email 
read As we discussed, based on the annual turnover you provided on the phone, you should 
receive as a cash incentive £4,210 . 
Virgin Money has checked the calculation with Ns old bank and it has confirmed the lower 
turnover is correct. So I cannot fairly find that Virgin Money has made an error that it needs 
to put right. I note that when Mr N called Virgin Money he said at the start of the call he was 
expecting somewhere in the region of £1,200.
If the incorrect turnover figure has been used by the old bank Mr N should contact it to 
resolve this. He can of course raise a complaint if it cannot be resolved informally, and if he 
is not satisfied with his old banks response he can come back to this service.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman