DRN-1477369
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about how The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice (FTP), dealt with a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2016 Mr P instructed FTP to make PPI claims on his behalf, including a claim against 
lender N. But Lender N needed to confirm Mr Ps identity before they could process the 
claim. FTP tried to contact Mr P during July and August 2016 to get the information needed 
for lender N. This wasnt provided, and FTP stopped all work on the claim.
But FTP continued to send Mr P status updates saying the claim against lender N was 
ongoing. Mr P contacted FTP in June 2019 for an update on the claim. FTP didnt reply until 
September (after the 29 August deadline for making new PPI claims) and told Mr P his claim 
had been closed.
Mr Ps unhappy that FTP closed his claim against Lender N without telling him, and hes now 
missed the deadline for making a new PPI claim.
Our investigator felt FTP had acted reasonably by chasing Mr P for the documents needed 
to progress the claim in 2016. But she thought they shouldve told him theyd closed his 
claim in 2016, and they shouldnt have sent him updates saying the claim was ongoing when 
it wasnt. She also felt FTP shouldve replied to Mr Ps June 2019 email sooner.
The investigator said that, if FTP had told Mr P in 2016 theyd closed his claim, it wouldve 
prompted him to provide the documents lender N had asked for. And this wouldve meant his 
claim couldve been considered. By not doing this, Mr P is now in a position where hell 
never known if his claim wouldve been successful or not. The investigator thought FTP 
should pay him £250 to compensate him for this loss of opportunity.
FTP didnt agree with the investigator. They say our only failing was not responding to the 
clients email dated 27/06/19. They dont feel they should compensate Mr P £250 for this, 
especially as Mr P had three years to contact them to progress the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
FTPs case notes for the claim show lender N told them on 26 May 2016 that Mr P needed to 
provide ID documentation and his claim needed to be resubmitted with this. But theres 
nothing to show me that FTP actually sent anything to Mr P enclosing the ID forms lender N 
required and/or telling him what he needed to do.The notes also show FTP tried to call Mr P on seven different occasions between 26 July 
and 17 August 2016. These notes refer to N/R which means no response, texted for 
contact or asked for a call in. This means that FTP never actually spoke to Mr P about the 
need for ID. And then in August 2016 they stopped trying to contact him.
FTPs correspondence log shows the texts sent to Mr P during this period said I have some 
interesting news for you and asked him to call them. Theres no reference to documents 
being needed to progress the claim. And FTP were also contacting Mr P about other claims 
at the same time, so its reasonable he couldve considered the interesting news to be about 
the other claims that were being progressed.
FTP say that at no point Mr Ps claim was closed, it was only suspended. They also say it 
isnt realistic or feasible to call all their clients who need to provide additional information for 
an indefinite period. I agree with FTP on this. But it would be both feasible and reasonable to 
write to a client theyd not been able to contact by phone, tell them what was needed to 
progress their claim, and tell them that FTP wouldnt be taking any further action until the 
required documentation had been received. FTP didnt do this with Mr P.
FTP also say they sent Mr P 40 status update email between 5 July 2016 and 27 August 
2018 saying further information was needed to progress the claim with lender N. Mr P says 
he received these updates, but they said the claim was in progress and didnt convey any 
urgency to act on my part. Neither FTP or Mr P have been able to provide a copy of any of 
these updates, so I cant say what they actually said  the only update Ive seen is the last 
one and this shows the claim against lender N closed because the deadline has been 
missed. But from what FTP and Mr P have both told me, the wording was more likely to 
imply a claim in progress to some degree, rather than a claim that was suspended and not 
being progressed.
FTPs case notes also show Mr P contacted them on 27 June 2019, asking if there was 
anything he needed to do to progress the claim with lender N. Given that FTP say the claim 
was suspended awaiting documentation from Mr P, and given the last day for submitting any 
claim to the lender was 29 August 2019; Id have expected them to explain to Mr P what 
needed to be done and by when. Instead FTP didnt respond to this email until September 
2019  by then it was too late to do anything about the claim.
On 9 September 2019, FTP wrote to Mr P with an update on all his claims. They told him 
success [was] knowing you have peace of mind as to whether hed been mis-sold PPI or 
not. But, in an email the same day, FTP also confirmed Mr Ps claim had not reached the 
stage where lender N wouldve registered this. This means that, even if Mr P now provided 
the documentation lender N needed, his claim couldnt be considered. 
So I agree with the investigator that Mr P doesnt have the peace of mind FTP say he has. 
Instead hes lost the opportunity to know whether or not he was mis-sold PPI by lender N, or 
if any compensation wouldve been due.
FTPs only failing wasnt that they delayed in replying to Mr Ps June 2019 email until after 
PPI deadline had passed. It was also not writing to him in August 2016 to tell him his claim 
had been suspended until he provided the documentation lender N had asked for. And it was 
providing him with multiple updates giving the impression that his claim was ongoing, when it 
wasnt. For these reasons I agree that FTP should pay Mr P £250 to compensate him for the 
loss of opportunity to now progress his claim with lender N.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ps complaint. The Fair Trade Practice Limited 
must pay him £250 to compensate him for the loss of opportunity to progress his PPI claim 
against lender N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman