DRN-2658208
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) wont offer him a cash lump sum in 
place of his two annuities.
What happened
In 2007 aged 51, Mr H decided to take his benefits from the two pension policies. On both 
policies he chose to include a 50% spouses pension and a five year guarantee. The 
annuities were purchased with the two fund values of £8,463.07 and £5,028.43, these are 
paid monthly and amount to £338.64 and £228.60 annually.
More recently Mr H enquired with ReAssure to ask if it would agree to him cashing-in the 
annuities. ReAssure said it had made a business decision not to do so and legislation said it 
didnt have to offer this option. It said it was concerned any offer it made wouldnt provide fair 
value. And that when the annuities had been set up, they were not designed to be cashed in, 
and the costs in doing so were not accounted for then.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained the legislation meant that ReAssure didnt have to offer this option to its 
customers. And considering Mr Hs circumstances and that of the sale, he didnt think 
ReAssure had been unfair or unreasonable in its decision to continue to pay the annuities as 
contractually agreed in 2007.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, legislation does permit annuities worth under £10,000 to 
potentially be cashed-in. But this is at the providers discretion. ReAssure has explained why 
it has chosen to no longer use this discretion. 
As the legislation is only enabling, i.e ReAssure has a choice, I cant say its wrong not to 
offer this to all its customers. However, I have considered Mr Hs particular circumstances 
and whether ReAssure has been unfair or unreasonable in its stance that they wont allow 
him to cash-in his annuity.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration and why he thinks it would be fair to allow him to cash-in 
his annuity. I can also appreciate the reasoning ReAssure gave (that it was concerned this 
wouldnt be in customers best interests) would be frustrating for Mr H as he explained why it 
he thinks it is. But the legislation allows ReAssure to apply its discretion. 
Whilst I can understand that Mr H feels he would be much better off with the cash lump sum 
than the annuity. And he therefore thinks the fair decision is to allow him to cash-in the 
annuity, we are an impartial service and we have to take into account the relevant legislation 
and the fairness of our decisions on both parties.
ReAssure (or at the time a predecessor firm bought by ReAssure) agreed a contract with Mr 
H to pay the two annuities for the rest of his life in 2007. When the contract was drawn up, it 
wasnt envisaged that the annuity could be cashed-in as the legislation did not allow for this 
scenario. And so annuities werent designed to be cashed-in or have a cash value. 
ReAssure has explained that it didnt take into account the costs of cashing-in the annuity, 
when it made its annuity offer to Mr H. 
Furthermore, ReAssure has paid these two annuities for approximately 14 years now. So Mr 
H has already received in annuity payments a significant proportion of the value used to 
purchase these annuities. Mr H took the annuities out early at age 51. And if a cash-in value 
was calculated now, the calculation method used would be based on how much it would cost 
to provide the two annuities for life now, as if Mr H was buying them today at age 65. And 
not a simple reduction of the purchase price minus money paid out. To provide these two 
annuity values now at age 65 in 2021, would be quite a bit more expensive than it wouldve 
cost to provide these amounts 14 years ago  as annuity rates have decreased and life 
expectancies increased.
I understand why Mr H believes a lump sum would be better for him and why the annuities 
when considered monthly dont amount to much. But the combined amounts of annuity he is 
being paid yearly comes to approximately £570 a year. I know this isnt a huge amount of 
money but it will still have some material benefit to Mr H. And part of the reason the annuity 
amounts are low, is because Mr H took his benefits so early at 51. Commonly an annuity is 
taken at 60 or 65 and the pot is converted into an annuity amount, in part, based on how 
many years it will likely be paid for. Mr H also took out a five year guarantee and a 50% 
spouses pension, this will also have reduced the amount of annuity he was paid. 
There are some other providers that are allowing annuities to be cashed-in. But in my 
experience the majority of cases cashed-in have generally been on annuities worth less in 
value than Mr Hs two would cost to provide now. Or the decision has been made for 
commercial reasons. I know it may seem unfair that depending on who a customer has their 
annuity with, their access to this option differs. But Im afraid this is a product of the 
legislation, it allows the providers to make a choice.
We have seen some businesses changing their stance on cashing-in annuities. And if in the 
future ReAssure changes its position on cashing-in annuities or legislation changes, I would 
expect ReAssure to look into this again afresh for Mr H.
Whilst I can understand why cashing-in the annuity would be beneficial for Mr H, considering 
the legislation allows providers to use their discretion and the circumstances here, I dont 
think that ReAssure are being unfair or unreasonable in its decision not to offer this to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman