DRN-3375647
The complaint
Mr C complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
AJH Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to AJH.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to AJH 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr C was 45 years old, married and with two dependent children and two other 
children. He was in good health and at that point he had accrued around 22 years of 
pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr C earned £34,000 per year and Mrs C also worked. They lived in a home valued 
at approximately £275,000 with a £118,000 repayment mortgage, which had around 
15 years to run.
They also owned two rental properties which generated a combined income of 
around £800 per month. AJHs records showed the total mortgages outstanding on 
these were £35,000 (repayment) and £74,000 (interest only) respectively. Again 
these had around 15 years left to run, payable as they were, in 2032.
Mr C had significant personal life insurance policies, with assured sums of over 
£200,000 in the event of his death. Mr and Mrs C had £2,000 in savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Cs BSPS was approximately 
£378,340 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. AJH said Mr C wanted to 
retire early, if possible, at the age of 58.
AJH set out its advice in a suitability report on 17 November 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. AJH said this would 
allow Mr C to achieve his objectives. Mr C accepted this advice and so transferred to a 
personal pension. In 2021 Mr C complained to AJH about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, AJH said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr C had at the time. It also thinks Mr C hasnt actually 
incurred any losses by transferring.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AJH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, AJH should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Cs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
AJH referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Cs case, I think its important to point out 
that AJH could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, 
rather than using the current BSPS for comparisons. It commissioned three different transfer 
analysis exercises, based on comparisons with three different types of plans, each with 
different providers. 
But these were comparisons with the BSPS, rather than the BSPS2. The first analysis was 
dated 22 September 2017, the second was 3 October 2017 and the final one was dated 21 
November 2017. 
Several weeks before the suitability report which contained the recommendation, which was 
dated 17 November 2017, we know BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was 
approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF 
with the old scheme. A newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been set up to 
support BSPS members and more details of the BSPS2 were emerging at the time AJH 
produced its suitability report. I think its reasonable to conclude that AJH would have been 
monitoring events closely.
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr C the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair to say 
that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between 
the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS).
Our investigator pointed out what he considered were some anomalies in the timeframe. For 
example, the final transfer analysis report (the third analysis) seems to have been 
calculated and published after the suitability report. But Ive taken the view that Mr C and 
AJH were probably in contact with each other over several weeks. And whilst the critical 
yield rates are all different in each transfer analysis document, these are explainable 
differences and indeed, small. So, I dont think this affects the outcome.
Focussing on what the suitability report (and therefore the recommendation to transfer) 
actually said, for a retirement at the age of 65 (the NRA) the critical yields were 7.5% if Mr C 
was taking a full pension. And the yield was 6.5% if he was taking a reduced pension and 
tax-free lump sum. For a retirement at the age of 58 the critical yields were 9.2% and 7.5% 
respectively.
The advice was given just after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.4% per year for 19 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. For an early retirement, at the age of 58 for example, the 
discount rate was only 4%. This infers that reaching the critical yields above would be unlikely. And there would be little 
point in transferring if Mr C was likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer term.
However, Ive also considered some other issues. Ive also kept in mind, for instance, that 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. AJH said Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR) 
was lowest-medium, so I think a growth assumption below the regulators mid-rate was 
appropriate here, and close to the discount rate. This was also inferring the likely growth was 
below the critical yields Ive set out above.
AJH told Mr C that the critical yield figures could be achieved as it assumed future growth 
rates of above these limits. But in my view, there was simply no justification for this. Past 
performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance and everything Ive 
shown above points to future growth being properly assumed as being around 3 - 5% and 
therefore significantly below AJHs own critical yield figures. In my view, AJHs growth 
assumptions were too high and it didnt explain enough to Mr C what the risks were.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, AJH also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. AJH set out the critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF. But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and 
AJH itself says Mr C wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to 
remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would 
have further reduced the likely growth.
As a further comparison, I can also see that AJHs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £1.16 million  far in excess of Mr Cs 
current CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity at 65, to provide benefits of equal 
value to the estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was 
£511,184. And for the same at aged 58 it was £421,898. In my view, these costs provide a 
revealing window into the real value Mr C could lose if he transferred out to a personal 
pension plan.
Finally, Ive also considered some projections AJH used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr C well into retirement. But its also fair to say 
these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What AJH was showing Mr C were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
However, to be clear, AJHs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme 
alone. Rather, AJH said Mr C had additional reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about 
all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
AJH recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Cs wider 
objectives. I have summarised the following themes as supporting the recommendation to 
transfer away and which were included in the suitability report. Ive summarised these as:Mention was made in several places of Mr C retiring early, if possible, at around 58. 
In a personal pension he could draw his desired retirement income / lump sum more 
flexibly. 
There would be more flexible death benefits in a personal pension. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and he didnt want to enter the PPF or 
BSPS2.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that AJH recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr C. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early 
AJH mentioned that Mr C had said he wanted to retire early. I dont doubt that Mr C might 
have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 58. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was 
anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a 
formulated plan. I say this because Mr C was only 45 years old at the time and I dont think 
its credible that he had any concrete plans for retirement at that point. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Cs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by AJH - and he really did want to retire early - I think AJH 
should have better assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still 
have been an option for Mr C, but I think this was discounted by AJH and portrayed 
negatively. The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely. AJH referred 
several times to retiring early under the BSPS as incurring penalties. But what retiring 
earlier under the BSPS2 (or PPF) meant was that Mr Cs pension benefits would have been 
somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. I therefore dont 
think this explained early retirement under the DB scheme fairly to Mr C and Im not 
surprised this approached turned him off the idea of remaining in a DB type scheme.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early might have been appealing, this needed to be 
considered against the other options Mr C faced, including opting for the BSPS2. AJH said 
that Mr Cs estimated full annual pension upon his NRA in the ceding scheme was around 
£22,392 per year, or a reduced pension of £14,840 with a tax-free lump sum of £98,931. As 
a DB pension this was guaranteed and index linked. 
However, as he was still quite young in pension terms and he had a family, mortgages and 
other income(s), including Mrs Cs, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Cs financial and 
income needs were likely to be in retirement. I certainly havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Mr C wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by 
accessing his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. 
This is because, as well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr C had already 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for up to 19 years more, until he retired. Mr Cs contributions to this 
second pension were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to 
say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in 
this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr C could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, and one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years.
Flexibility 
The adviser recorded that Mr C had said he wanted to have the flexibility to use his tax-free 
lump sum as he pleased and that this might mean he wouldnt want to access it all at once. 
There is nothing wrong with wanting flexibility but in this context it comes with a price. What 
AJH needed to do was really understand Mr Cs needs and to advise what was in his best 
interests, rather than to just transact what he thought he wanted.
AJH therefore needed to balance any desire for flexibility with what Mr C would be giving up 
in the form of a guaranteed pension with indexation, certain benefits and a known pension 
for the rest of his life. The case for needing any flexibility to take cash at different times or 
vary his retirement income certainly wasnt made clear, in my view. Mr C still had 19 years to 
his NRA and despite AJH referring many times to him retiring at 58, he also implied hed 
work beyond that age, particularly if there was a less physical role available.  
Mr Cs mortgages on his main home and one of his buy-to-let investment properties had 
repayment mortgages with 15 years left to run according to information in the fact-find. So 
in all likelihood these could be paid off completely in 2032 and Mr C would only be 60 years 
old. Mrs C would have been 52 by this point. And the remaining investment property could 
continue to be financed in the traditional buy-to-let model of the interest being met from 
rental income. Alternatively this could be sold and the equity released, if there was any, 
although the current trajectory in this regard looked positive in 2017.
It seems to me that the AJH adviser failed to also really consider Mrs Cs income and / or 
pension affairs as the evidence here is that these werent discussed. But I think they may 
have been relevant. What Ive seen tends to suggest their joint incomes left them with a 
disposable sum at the end of each month and whilst Im sure their family would have come 
first, there may have been the opportunity to further pay down the mortgages modestly in the 
years before retirement.
Overall, Ive seen nothing else which shows Mr C had either a wider desire or capacity to 
exercise personal control over his pension. Mr Cs previous exposure to investing was very 
limited and he had no such investments at the time. So, I think Mr Cs circumstances were 
much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was 
ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. Because he also had a second, DC 
pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. Ive also noted Mr and Mrs C owned 
investment properties which generated £800 per month as of 2017.
I have therefore considered what AJH said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because he was still relatively young in pension terms, and so little was known about what 
his retirement would look like. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr C to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended. Using this, together with his other assets put him in a good 
retirement position, when it eventually came.
Death benefits AJH implies that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr C died. But Im afraid I think this 
was no more than a stock objective with no real relevance to Mr Cs situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr C. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Cs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his forties and in good 
health, he and Mrs C had a family. In my view, the likely death benefits attached to the new 
DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr and Mrs C and they were also substantially 
underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs C if Mr C 
predeceased her and I dont think AJH made the value of this benefit clear enough. And as a 
father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr C, even 
though we know these would have ceased at some point when the children left full time 
education. These benefits were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. 
There may also not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Cs 
passing, particularly if he lived a long life. AJH should therefore not have encouraged Mr C 
to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement. It also doesnt appear that AJH took into account the fact that Mr C 
could have nominated Mrs C as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. 
So, to this end, Mr C had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Finally, at 45 years old I think life insurance would have been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr C really did want to leave a larger legacy for Mrs C and eventually their 
children. Ive noted he had this already and Im sure this was discussed. But to leave a 
legacy didnt require obtaining a life policy which replicated his BSPS type death benefits. In 
his case that would have been too expensive and unnecessary in my view, given the cover 
he already had and which could be added to with an affordable term policy.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Cs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and AJH 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and AJH said 
he could have more control over his pension. 
So, its quite possible that Mr C was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was AJHs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were emerging and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Cs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AJH should 
have reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr C through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to AJHs recommendation to Mr C to transfer out of a DB scheme 
altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But AJH 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr C was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think AJH ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr C still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr C would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr C was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr C chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think AJH should have advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr C would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that AJH disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr C, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr C to transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against AJHs advice. I say this because Mr C was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if AJH had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.Im also not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if AJH had explained Mr C was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint. I think AJH should compensate Mr C for 
the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AJHs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, AJH should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in 
line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for 
Mr C. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision. As Ive said above, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65
AJH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date AJH receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AJH to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AJH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Ive considered the impact on Mr C of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our investigator 
recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mr C by AJH for what he referred to as 
the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr Cs 
age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
very significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the thought of losing 
benefits would have negatively impacted Mr C. I therefore agree that AJH should also pay 
Mr C this £250, for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which 
has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct AJH 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
AJH Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AJH 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AJH Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman