DRN-3125554
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax marked their credit file 
showing their mortgage was in arrears.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G have a mortgage with Halifax. The balance in May 2020 was £282,138. 
Monthly repayments were then £2,178.18. Mr G and Mrs G were both made redundant and 
applied for two payment deferrals under the COVID-19 support scheme. The first ran from 
May 2020 to the end of July 2020; the second ran from August 2020 to the end of October 
2020. Halifax agreed to those and payments were suspended. During the second period, 
reduced payments of £1,000 a month were initially agreed to. But these werent made and in 
September 2020 in a phone call, Halifax agreed to waive those arrears and change Mr G 
and Mrs Gs credit file. A full, backdated three-month payment deferral was put in place 
instead  with effect from August 2020. 
So  Mr G and Mrs G had a total six months payment deferral  whereby monthly payments 
were suspended, interest was still charged, but missed payments were not advised to the 
credit reference agencies.
In November 2020, the full contractual payment of £2,190.96 was due and Mr G and Mrs G 
applied online for a hold on payments under the scheme that Halifax were then offering. 
This wasnt a COVID-19 payment deferral, and while monthly payments were suspended, 
arrears on the mortgage were shown on Mr G and Mrs Gs credit file. They didnt make the 
payments due in November 2020 and December 2020. So  their credit file was marked with 
two months arrears. In April 2021  Halifax sent a letter to Mr G and Mrs G saying they were 
in arrears by £4,364.76  the equivalent of two missed payments. 
Mr G and Mrs G complained. They said theyd been offered a further three months payment 
deferral from November 2020 on the same terms as before  so their credit file should not be 
marked with the arrears. They said that Halifax had told them they would call them towards 
the end of October 2020 to let them know what the options were then. But they didnt do 
that. They said Halifax were now incorrectly reporting three or four months arrears 
information on their credit file. They said this was wrong  as a result, they couldnt get any 
credit and their lives were badly affected.
Halifax said to us that at the time of the call with Mr G on 8 September 2020, payment 
deferrals were available for another three months. But - they said they didnt offer this to Mr 
G and Mrs G. They said they advised Mr G and Mrs G to call them towards the end of 
October 2020 to discuss what to do next. Then, in the middle of September 2020, there had 
been a policy change  so payment deferral were stopped and replaced by holds on 
payments  which did include the marking of credit files with arrears information. Halifax said 
Mr G and Mrs G had then gone online and signed up for a 60-day payment hold  and 
agreed to its terms and conditions. This included marking the missed payments as arrears 
on their credit file. Looking at the arrears  Mr G and Mrs Gs credit file showed two months 
arrears in April 2021  because of the missed payments in November 2020 and December 
2020. So that was accurate.
Mr G and Mrs G brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had acted 
reasonably. On the call with Halifax on 8 September 2020, Mr G and Mrs G were told to 
contact Halifax at the end of October 2020  if they were still struggling at that time. Options 
could then be discussed. Halifax did say on the call that a further three months payment 
deferral was then available (which it then was). But then  there was a policy change which 
meant Halifax no longer offered payment deferrals on the old terms. Instead, they replaced 
payment deferrals with a 60-day hold  which did involve reporting arrears to credit 
reference agencies. This was also consistent with the change in policy which came from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at that time. Halifax couldnt be expected to call all 
customers about that change. He said Mr G and Mrs G then applied online for the 60-day 
hold. And the online application did say there would be an effect on Mr G and Mrs Gs credit 
file. So  Halifax had reported accurately the arrears information.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree. They said theyd been offered a further payment hold on the 
same terms as before - and it couldnt be withdrawn. They asked that an ombudsman look at 
their complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Halifax, agreed to put in place payment deferral s on many credit agreements, including 
mortgages  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment deferrals, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment deferrals.
Halifax told us that up until 23 September 2020, they had a policy of being able to offer a 
total payment deferral of nine months. But when the FCA guidance was announced, Halifax 
changed that to six months. Halifax said that payment deferral s would stop and all further 
requests were to be tailored to individual circumstances  they introduced a breathing 
space or holds whereby payments could be missed, but credit files would be marked to 
show that. 
Mr G and Mrs G took advantage of the scheme for their mortgage from May 2020 through to 
the end of October 2020. They took two payment deferrals, each of three months. So  Mr G 
and Mrs G had, by then, used up their payment deferral entitlement for a six-month period. 
The call on 8 September 2020 is important. Ive listened to it. The main purpose of it was to 
resolve the missed payments of £1,000  and this was dealt with. Halifax agreed to waive 
them and back date the payment deferral to August 2020 through to the end of October 
2020. But then, the call handler went on to say that the full contractual mortgage payment 
(CMP) was due early in November 2020  and if this was not possible, we can offer a 
further three-month extension. I can see why she said this  as that was what was available 
from Halifax at that time  as their policy hadnt changed. The call handler went on to say that Mr G and Mrs G should call Halifax at the end of October 2020 to discuss what to do 
next and added that a letter would be sent out to show the options at the end of the payment 
deferral. On the call, Halifax didnt say they would call Mr G and Mrs G. And I dont consider 
that Halifax offered a further payment deferral on the call.
I can see why Mr G and Mrs G thought they were going to be offered a further payment 
deferral on the same terms as before, but equally, they hadnt had anything in writing to say 
that, and they were asked to call Halifax at the time to discuss the way forward. I havent 
seen that Mr G and Mrs G did call Halifax as they been asked to do. It's fair to assume that 
had they done so, theyd have been told about the new policy and the effect on credit file 
reporting.
Halifax sent a letter dated 6 October 2020 to Mr G and Mrs G  as theyd promised. This 
outlined the options at the end of the payment deferral at the end of October 2020. The letter 
said that payments to Mr G and Mrs Gs mortgage would start again in November 2020. It 
said,  your monthly payment from 2 November 2020 is £2,190.96.  There was a FAQ sheet 
attached which said, Things you need to knowyou could take another payment holiday 
and later it said taking a payment holiday wont directly affect your credit scoreif you miss 
any payments outside of an agreed payment holiday, we may have to tell the credit 
reference agencies  I must say that I found the FAQ confusing, because it wasnt clear 
about the effect on CRA reporting.  But  the letter didnt offer Mr G and Mrs G another 
payment deferral  it was saying that payments were starting again. And Mr G and Mrs G 
could ask for a payment deferral if they needed it. 
Then - on 31 October 2020, Mr G and Mrs G applied online for a 60-day payment hold  and 
signed up to the terms and conditions. Ive seen the screenshot of what was shown which 
said, there will be an impact on your credit file if you dont keep up with your payments. So 
 I think that was clear that their credit files would be affected.
Halifax wrote to Mr G and Mrs G on 31 October 2020 to confirm, Weve put a 60 day hold 
on your mortgage. It also said If you miss payments during this time you will fall behind and 
will need to catch up with them. We wont contact you but there will be an impact on your 
credit score which can make borrowing harder and more expensive in the future. So  this 
was clear that Mr G and Mrs Gs credit file would be marked.
I can then see that Mr G and Mrs G didnt make the payments for November 2020 and 
December 2020  this was in line with what had been agreed. And so  they were two 
months in arrears. Halifax wrote to them in February 2021 and April 2021 and said they were 
two months in arrears - £4,364.76. This was because of the two missed payments in 
November 2020 and December 2020. Ive also seen that their credit file was marked with 
those arrears between November 2020 and April 2021. This accurately reflects what 
happened. The credit file would be marked in that way until the two missed payments were 
made up.
I consider that Halifax acted reasonably. I can see the Mr G and Mrs G feel strongly about 
what happened, and so will be disappointed by my decision. But I wont be asking Halifax to 
do anything here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman