DRN-4158455
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the decision to decline 
the claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Mr D has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, and actions taken, by either Mr D or Mrs D as 
Mr D throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D held a home insurance policy, underwritten by EIL. Unfortunately, in 
February 2022, Mr Ds roof was damaged. And Mr D felt this damage was caused by storm 
conditions. So, he contacted EIL to make a claim on his insurance policy.
EIL acknowledged Mr Ds claim, which was made initially using an online claim for. EIL 
requested Mr D provide them with an estimate from a local tradesperson for the work that 
would be required, alongside photos of the damage. Mr D provided this information, but due 
to the impact the damage was having on Mr Ds home, Mr D authorised his local 
tradesperson, who Ill refer to as X, to complete the repair work.
Shortly after this, EIL instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as S, to attend 
Mr Ds property and inspect the damage. By this time, the damage had been repaired and 
so, S wasnt able to visually inspect the damage caused in person. Because of this, based 
on the claim information available, S felt there was no evidence to show the damage was 
caused due to an insured peril and instead, S stated the damage was the result of a natural 
breakdown of materials. So, based on this information, EIL declined Mr Ds claim.
Mr D was unhappy about this, and he supplied EIL with a report from X who stated within 
this their belief that the damage they repaired had most likely been caused due to a storm. 
EIL passed this to S to consider, but S opinion remain unchanged. So, EIL didnt think they 
should change their initial claim decision. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr D didnt think EILs decision to decline the claim was a fair one. He thought EIL had given 
him authorisation to engage with X on completing the repairs. And he thought X had made it 
clear the damage was caused by a storm. So, he didnt think EIL were fair to rely on the 
report compiled by S and he thought the claim should be accepted and the repairs for the 
damage covered by EIL.
EIL didnt agree. They thought they had declined the claim fairly, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, based on the report provided by S. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that EIL had acted 
fairly when relying on the report compiled by S who stated the damage was down to a 
natural breakdown of materials. And they were satisfied the terms and conditions of Mr Ds 
policy excluded claims of this nature. So, our investigator didnt think EIL needed to do 
anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. They felt the report they provided, compiled by X, supported their belief 
the damage was caused by a storm. So, they maintained their belief the claim should be 
accepted. They also made reference to the attitude of S during the inspection and their belief 
they had verbal approval from EIL to complete the repairs before an inspection had taken 
place. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what, and how, Ive considered the complaint. Its not our services role to re-
underwrite Mr Ds claim, as we dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is our role to 
consider the actions EIL have taken when reaching the decision to decline the claim and 
decide whether we think they acted fairly and reasonably, and within the policy terms and 
conditions, when doing so.
When were considering the actions a business such as EIL took during a storm claim, there 
are three main questions we think about. And for us to decide a business should accept a 
claim, we need to be satisfied that the answer is yes to all three questions. These 
questions are:
1.    Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In this situation, while there does appear to be some inconsistencies around the date the 
damage occurred, compared to when it was noticed and when EIL were made aware of it, I 
dont think its in dispute that in the lead up to Mr Ds claim, there were weather conditions 
that met the storm conditions criteria. So, I think the answer is yes for question 1.
Ive then thought about questions 2 and 3. I note Mr D instructed X to complete the repairs to 
his roof before EIL had instructed S to inspect the damage. So, when S attended Mr Ds 
property, the damaged sections of the roof had been replaced and could no longer be 
assessed.
Because of this, S compiled a report based on the limited information available to them. And 
this led to S decided the damage was likely caused due to natural wear and tear, as they 
were unable to say for certain that the damage was consistent with storm caused, or that a 
storm was the main cause of the damage.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr D held. And this explains under the 
general conditions applicable to making a claim that a customer must not repair any damage without our consent as well stipulating a customer must not dispose of any 
damaged property without our permission. The policy goes onto explain that if a customer 
fails to adhere to these conditions, EIL have the right not to pay the claim.
EIL have stated they didnt authorise Mr D to complete the repairs. And that Mr D authorising 
X to do so impacted S ability to fully inspect the damage. So, they thought they were fair to 
rely on S report, which was impacted by the fact the repairs had already been completed.
I note Mr D feels this is unfair, and he believes he was given verbal authority by EIL to 
authorise X to complete the repairs. But Ive, or heard, no evidence to show this verbal 
authority was given. And I note Mr D instructed X to complete the work on 25 February 2022, 
when on 1 March 2022 Ive seen EIL sent Mr D an email asking Mr D to obtain an estimate 
for the work. I dont think e-mail stated Mr D should look to get the repair work completed. In 
fact, I think the email makes it clear EIL wished to consider any estimate first, stating once 
weve received your photographs and estimate, we will review your claim and contact you to 
let you know what happens next. This may include instructing a surveyor to attend your 
property to assess the damage. And this is the action EIL took.
So, based on the evidence available to me, I dont think Im satisfied that EIL did give Mr D 
authority to get the repairs completed before they instructed S. And I think Mr Ds decision to 
proceed with the repairs impacted S ability to fully inspect the damage. So, while I 
appreciate Mr D feels S report is incorrect, and unfair, I dont think Im able to agree here.
Im satisfied S report was made reasonably, based on the claim circumstances. And as S is 
the independent expert, I think EIL were fair to rely on the report S compiled. And in this 
situation, S was unable to find that the damage claimed for was consistent for storm 
damage. Nor is the report able to say storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
So, I dont think Im able to say yes to either question 2 or 3 on this occasion.
And Ive seen the policy terms and conditions explain that EIL will not pay for loss, damage 
or any liability resulting directly or indirectly from wear and tear or loss or damage as a 
result of the lack of maintenance or loss or damage that happens gradually over time. S 
report stating that the damage was caused due to a natural break down of materials and so, 
I think EIL have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the 
claim based on this, as this breakdown wouldve occurred over a period of time. So, I dont 
think I can say EIL have acted unfairly or unreasonably and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand Mr D is unlikely to agree with this decision. And I want to reassure Mr D I have 
considered all of the comments he has made, as well as the report provide by X. But I also 
have to consider the fact X completed the work on behalf of Mr D. And so, I think this is likely 
to have had a potential impact on Xs position, as by the time they provided the report that 
had already completed the work and so, I dont think its likely they would have said the 
damage wasnt storm related. And even so, I can see EIL passed this report to S for S 
consideration and S position remained unchanged. Again, as S were the independent 
expert, I think EIL were fair to rely, and follow, S position on maintaining the claim decline. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman