DRN-2303367
The complaint
Mr R complains Creation Services Ltd will not refund some disputed transactions.
Creation say the transactions were authorised and so, Mr R is liable.
What happened
 On 13th July 2019, Mr R complained to Creation about some transactions made on his card 
the previous day.  He said he was in a bar in Spain, he thinks he his drink was spiked by the 
bar and consequently, he entered his PIN for transactions he had not made.
He had reported the matter to the police and had seen a doctor  but no evidence of any 
drug was discovered.  Mr R says this was because he was told the traces only remained for 
a matter of days.
Creation rejected his complaint.  It said the card was still in Mr Rs possession and his 
correct PIN had been entered.  In the circumstances, it was holding him liable.  In its final 
response to Mr R, it offered £50 for the poor service it had provided.
When Mr R came to this service, our investigator thought Creation could have done more.
She explained to Mr R that the payments would be treated as authorised  because 
intoxication (in the context of payments) did not invalidate consent.  However, she (the 
investigator) thought Creation should have picked up on the unusual activity on Mr Rs 
account that day and should have sought to question it.  Had it attempted to make contact 
with Mr R to check he was genuinely making the payments, his level of intoxication may 
have come to light and he would have been prevented from making any more.
Our investigator did not think the first two transactions were out of character  but once the 
amounts had increased and spending had exceeded Mr Rs usual spending, Creation should 
have been on notice that all was not well.
Mr R agreed to this view, but Creation did not.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its accepted that these payments were authorised.  The Payment Services Regulations 
2017 say so.  But I am afraid the investigator is right  Creation should have been on notice 
that the activity on Mr Rs account was not his usual.
Ive considered the relevant regulations, codes of practice and good industry practice at the 
time and I think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Creation to have been monitoring 
accounts for any payments to counter various risks, to have systems in place to look out for 
unusual transactions or other signs indicating that Mr R may be at risk and in some 
circumstances to decline a payment altogether to help protect customers from financial 
harm.
Creation has not been able to show this service comparable transactions on Mr Rs account.  
There is no dispute over the authorisation of the transactions  but I am afraid on this 
occasion, Creation has failed to act in accordance with its duty to exercise reasonable skill 
and care.
For these reasons, I intend to uphold this complaint in part.
The offer of £50 from Creation, I understand, is still available for Mr R to accept.
 
Putting things right
Creation Services Ltd must refund the transactions made from when it should have been 
alerted that all was not well.  This means the transaction for £723.61 onwards, totalling 
£1463.40.
It also needs to re-work Mr Rs account and place it back into the position it would have been 
in had these transactions not been allowed to happen.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman