DRN-3935520
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Arrow Global Limited unfairly closed her credit card and recorded a 
default on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs D had a credit card with a business Ill call V. In 2020 Arrow purchased the account from 
V and instructed its agents to collect payments from Mrs D. A payment arrangement was 
agreed and Mrs D made monthly payments via standing order. 
Last year, Mrs Ds account fell into arrears after payments ceased. Arrow continued to send 
statements to Mrs D that showed no payments were being made. No arrears letters were 
sent and Arrows agents didnt call Mrs D about the missed payments. 
In August 2022 a termination notice was sent to Mrs D under Section 98a of the Consumer 
Credit Act. In short, Arrow said that Mrs D had until 20 October 2022 to clear the outstanding 
balance in full otherwise the account would be terminated and a default recorded on her 
credit file. When the balance wasnt fully repaid, Arrow terminated the agreement and 
recorded a default on Mrs Ds credit file. 
Mrs D complained and Arrow sent a final response. Arrow didnt agree it had acted unfairly 
by recording the default. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ds complaint. Initially they said Arrow had 
correctly applied the default. But in a follow up letter, the investigator thought that Arrow had 
failed to follow the correct process when terminating the credit agreement. But the 
investigator didnt think Mrs Ds position had been unfairly impacted overall as the account 
terms and conditions allowed it request full repayment by giving notice. The investigator said 
that as Mrs D wasnt able to clear the balance in full her account would most likely have 
closed at default in any case. 
Mrs D asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds told us she wasnt aware her standing order had stopped paying Arrow so didnt 
know her account had fallen behind. But Mrs Ds confirmed Arrow sent her monthly 
statements during this period. Ive looked at the statements to see whether they clearly show 
Mrs Ds account status. I accept theres no specific notice within the statements that says 
Mrs Ds account was in arrears. But the statements all show what payment was due the 
following month and what payments had been made. And the statements show Mrs Ds 
payments stopped being made to Arrow.
Mrs Ds also explained she didnt received arrears letters or calls from Arrow and its agent. 
Arrows confirmed arrears letters and calls werent issued but has pointed to the statements 
it sent that set out the status of the account. If Arrow had taken the step of closing Mrs Ds 
accounts as part of its arrears management process, Id have expected to see arrears letters 
and associated default and termination correspondence. But here, Arrows advised it relied 
on the credit cards terms and conditions along with provisions made within the Consumer 
Credit Act to request repayment of the outstanding balance and close the account. 
Arrow says it issued the termination notice in line with Section 98a of the Consumer Credit 
act and gave over two months notice that Mrs D was required to pay the balance in full by 
20 October 2022. And Arrow says its approach allowed it to apply a default when Mrs D was 
didnt clear the full balance. Ive read Section 98a of the Consumer Credit act and can see it 
does make provisions for Arrow to request a full repayment of the outstanding balance by 
giving notice. But theres nothing in Section 98a that says the termination notice Arrow 
issued can serve in place or the absence of a default notice or that it entitles a business to 
record a default on a customers credit file. 
Whilst Im not persuaded Arrow followed the normal default process, we look at complaints 
on an individual basis and focus on whether the consumers lost out as a result of a 
business actions. Here, Arrows terms and the relevant regulations did allow it to request full 
repayment of the outstanding balance. And Arrow gave Mrs D two months notice of its 
intentions. Mrs D was aware of Arrows decision to terminate the account and request full 
repayment by 20 October 2022 but wasnt in a position to pay the balance back. 
I understand Mrs D feels Arrows actions were unfair, but it appears to me that shes in 
broadly the same position she wouldve been in if a default process had also been followed. 
Arguably, the default was registered at an earlier point as a result of Arrows approach. 
Whilst I havent been persuaded Arrow followed the normal approach when applying the 
default, I havent found evidence that shows shes in a worse position as a result. I still think 
its more likely than not that a default wouldve been recorded on Mrs Ds credit file after 
Arrow requested full repayment of the outstanding balance following arrears. 
As Im satisfied Arrow dealt with Mrs Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 
17 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman