DRN-4479465
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Starling Bank Limited has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction she made on her debit card to purchase a package holiday.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs H paid on her debit card £7,411.60 for a pilgrimage abroad including 
flights, hotels, transportation, and other services. It was due to take place between 30 June 
2022 and 19 July 2022. However the supplier shortened the pilgrimage significantly shortly 
before being due to fly, and in the end Mrs H flew out on 5 July and returned on 19 July 
2022. Mrs H was in contact before and after the trip with the supplier but was dissatisfied 
with the outcomes of that correspondence. So she took her dispute to Starling even before 
she started the pilgrimage.
Similarly Mrs H has had significant correspondence with Starling and is similarly dissatisfied 
with Starling. Starling accepts it initiated a chargeback at a point contrary to Mrs Hs wishes. 
This chargeback was unsuccessful. So Mrs H complained. Starling accepts it didnt do things 
well, but it doesnt think this made a difference regarding the final outcome of any 
chargeback. In reflection of the customer service that Mrs H received, Starling offered her 
£200. But Mrs H wants a fair refund bearing in mind her significantly curtailed pilgrimage. So 
she brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that Starling hadnt treated Mrs H unfairly. 
But Mrs H didnt agree so this decision comes to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023 stating that it had transpired that Mrs H 
had received a refund from the supplier for her missing days of holiday and that without 
evidence to the contrary that would likely have equated to cost of the missing part of the 
pilgrimage. However as Starling had raised a chargeback contrary to Mrs Hs wishes and 
missed the opportunity to raise a chargeback when it should have, it should pay a total £450 
to Mrs H to reflect the customer service it provided.
Starling has nothing further to add. Mrs H responded to say the amount wasnt enough for a 
variety of reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mrs Hs further comments Im not persuaded to change my position re 
the outcome of this dispute as previously stated. Mrs Hs is very unhappy with the service 
she was provided by the supplier and that is evident from her heartfelt comments. And it is 
clear that Starling havent been exemplary here. But I can only award here for what Starling 
did wrong and the impact that had. I cannot award for what Mrs H describes as the failings of 
the supplier. This is because the test here is solely about whether Starling raised a 
chargeback properly and what were its failings and consequences in relation to that. Mrs H 
paid on her debit card and as such I cannot hold Starling to a like claim for the pilgrimage 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 like I could, had she used a credit card. I can only hold 
it responsible for its failings around the chargeback and the ramifications of that.
Mrs H has made many arguments about the supplier and the pilgrimage she did receive. But 
as Starling isnt directly responsible for that. It is only responsible for considering chargeback 
and recouping what it should do through the chargeback process. So Im not going to 
address all Mrs Hs comments because of that key distinction. I shall now provide my 
rationale as per my provisional decision along with additional comments interspersed within 
that to deal with the key matters Mrs H has raised as I see them.
There is no dispute here regarding the processing of the transaction itself that Mrs H made 
in June 2022. Accordingly I can now move on to considering how Starling treated Mrs H in 
her dispute with the supplier of the pilgrimage. It is also clear from the itinerary of this 
pilgrimage that it qualified as a package under the Package Travel Regulations. I should 
also note here Mrs H has provided a wealth of evidence regarding the package being 
changed including the original and subsequent itineraries. I also note that the supplier sent 
an email to Mrs H on 28 July 2022 accepting that a refund was due and that it would be 
initiated within fourteen days. It now transpires that such a refund has now been made in 
March 2023 for £627.76. This is important information which I shall consider later in this 
decision.
could Starling challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs H 
does here, Starling can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time 
limits and if there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think Starling couldve 
challenged the payments on the basis Mrs H didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive already set out.
Within the card scheme rules there are time limits set out for when chargebacks can be 
raised by banks. I note here that Mrs H was in contact with Starling before and after the 
package took place. So had Starling treated her fairly it could have raised the correct 
chargeback in time considering the evidence here.
Starling accepts it proceeded with the chargeback after Mrs H had specifically asked it to put 
the chargeback on hold. And it accepts that the supplier defended this erroneous 
chargeback, and that Starling didnt take the erroneous chargeback further. But it says for 
other reasons this doesnt make a difference. It is clear that now Mrs H and Starling are out 
of time to raise a chargeback regarding this trip due at least to the fact that they are now 
outside the time limits within the Mastercard rules. 
Mrs H points to the Consumer Duty in her arguments. I note the events shes complaining 
about here predate the Consumer Duty and accordingly it isnt in force at the appropriate 
time. However I dont think this is material here as I think my outcome here is a fair and 
reasonable solution to what happened.
Mrs H points to the fundamental importance of this pilgrimage in terms of its importance to 
her in terms of fulfilling her religious duty. And as a consequence what happened here as 
having had a fundamental impact on her fulfilling this duty and not having achieved or 
experienced all that she wished to achieve on this pilgrimage. I can see this being of great 
importance to Mrs H for obvious and fundamental reasons. And Ive kept this at the forefront 
of my thinking throughout.However as this transaction was funded through Mrs Hs debit card I can only consider this 
matter through the lens of whether Starling did what it should in terms of raising a 
chargeback and treating Mrs H fairly in that regard. And under the rules of the scheme the 
most that Mrs H could receive would be amount of that transaction that was due to be 
refunded to her. I can well appreciate Mrs Hs resolve to get a fair outcome here despite 
being originally refused this by Starling. I should add that Mrs Hs arguments and resolve 
here are in my opinion to her credit as she has made submissions clearly, logically, and 
consistently throughout.
However it transpires that despite Starlings failing to do a chargeback properly, the supplier 
has made a refund to Mrs H in March 2023, many months after she returned from the 
pilgrimage she did go on. And without further information on the background of this refund 
(which Mrs H doesnt have) I can only assume this refund she did receive is the correct 
amount corresponding to the cost of the early part of the pilgrimage that was missed due to 
the supplier shortening the trip length. And it being the refund that it had said long ago that it 
would make. So I can only conclude that had Starling done a chargeback properly Mrs H 
would have received that same amount at the time of the chargeback as she did directly 
from the supplier in March 2023.
Mrs H has responded to say she fundamentally disagrees with this assumption. She says 
the refund amount is in essence an amount the supplier has provided to appease those 
affected, but not a true and fair refund. She has not provided any persuasive documentary 
evidence to support this. And without such evidence and bearing in mind the supplier said it 
would make a refund and did (eventually), I have no persuasive evidence to support Mrs Hs 
position. And even if Mrs H is correct there is nothing persuasive to dissuade me that had 
Starling raised a chargeback correctly the supplier wouldnt have paid the same amount for 
the same reasons at that point as Mrs H says it did in the end. So even if Mrs H is correct 
about this-that wouldnt be the fault of Starling.
Mrs H has pointed to her fellow travellers getting full refunds from their banks. That may be 
the case. However I dont consider it fair for Starling to do the same. Mrs H did get to go on 
the trip and received the benefit of the majority of the trip albeit it wasnt what she was 
expecting to receive and much of the trip was changed. So I dont think a full refund is due 
because she had the benefit of the flights and some of the planned services. And has 
apparently been refunded what the supplier felt was fair to refund.
I now think, in light of now knowing the supplier did provide a refund to Mr H, that although 
Starling has fallen significantly short of my expectations of how to handle a chargeback, that 
it has nothing further to do here as to the chargeback amount. This is because I think that 
Mrs H has received the amount direct from the supplier that she would have done had 
Starling done the chargeback in the autumn of 2022 as it should have done.
Mrs H has made significant comment in response to my provisional decision. Including the 
following:
This behaviour of Starling Bank added to my already awful experience, mental anguish and 
stress that I was already suffering with in relation to my pilgrimage (before, during and after 
it). I was not sleeping or eating properly due to this. It had a huge impact on my mental 
health for over 6 months and I hold Starling Bank responsible for my poor health. Their lack 
of empathy, action and co-operation was unforgivable! I have spent so long fighting this
case with Starling Bank, it was a matter of principle and justice for me, to get heard
properly and compensated accordingly.
She has also said:I will never be able to afford this pilgrimage again. It took all the savings I had. On another 
note, it's a physically gruelling challenge and who knows if I will be fit enough to carry it out 
again if miraculously, I had a windfall. I have a few medical conditions which my Doctors can 
verify, if need be, that could make it pretty difficult.
I had previous said that Starling should pay the £200 distress and inconvenience payment it 
had offered if it hasnt paid this already. Ive given the amount of distress and inconvenience 
payment thought again in light of Mrs Hs comments. I think it likely had Starling raised the 
chargeback in the autumn of 2022 it would have meant Mrs H would have had her refund in 
September/October 2022 rather than in March 2023. 
So I must now consider this delay bearing in mind the drawn-out nature of this dispute and 
the impact that has had on Mrs H between returning from the pilgrimage she did have and 
when she got the refund from the supplier. Bearing in mind Mrs Hs comments on the matter 
and the significant impact it has had on her I now think a total amount of distress and 
inconvenience that Starling should pay Mrs H is £450 including the £200 it previously offered 
(and may have paid).
I appreciate Mrs H is going to be substantially disappointed with this position. I also 
appreciate she will feel that if she hadnt disclosed the refund shed have received a 
significantly greater amount than she now will. Her integrity and honesty are to her credit. 
I also appreciate she may feel that shes being treated badly compared to her fellow 
travellers who she says received significantly more from their card providers. However I can 
only award what is fair and reasonable here and I cannot make awards because her fellow 
travellers may have received more because they used credit cards and hence received 
Section 75 protection under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or because they received more 
than they were actually due for reasons unclear. It is also possible that they received 
temporary credits which have since been partially or wholly re-debited.
As Mrs H used her debit card and only chargeback is the only recourse available here she 
can only get refunded what she is owed through this process. So as the supplier refunded 
her direct, then Starling only has to redress the distress and inconvenience it caused and 
nothing further.
Mrs H has made many comments that I should increase the award including I'm sure they 
will continue to abuse other customers and not learn from their mishandling of their 
customers' cases. This service doesnt make punitive awards, it makes awards based on 
what should have happened when businesses fail to do what they should have done. It is 
very clear that Mrs Hs expectations of what Starling should have done are high but 
ultimately its role here was to consider and act properly with regard to chargeback. A 
voluntary process run by the card scheme and not Starling.
Putting things right
So it is my decision that Starling Bank should pay a total £450 to Mrs H less any amount of 
distress and inconvenience it has already paid to her in relation to this dispute.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited as set out above. Once the total 
amount has been paid to Mrs H it has nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman