DRN-2186608
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the level of redress paid to him by Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) for 
an incident in which four short GBP/CAD Forex currency pair trades in his trading account 
were closed out on a margin call at a price that Plus500 concedes could have better 
reflected the market price.
Mr K says the redress paid to him is insufficient; that, based on the revised price Plus500 
used to calculate the redress, the margin call and close-out would never have happened; 
that his trades would have been uninterrupted and that he then would have been able to 
close them shortly thereafter at a more favourable price; so he seeks compensation for the 
position he would have been in if this had happened.
What happened
A summary of the background is as follows:
The incident occurred on 18 November 2019. The closing price of 1.7190 was used 
for the close-out and Plus500s concession is that the price more reflective of the 
market at the time was 1.71679.
Mr K says, based on the state of his account at the time, the price of 1.71679 would 
not have resulted in a margin call (so there would have been no close-out of his 
trades).
Mr K says the close-out resulted in a total net loss of around £8,500, which is one 
element of the compensation he claims; the other being lost gains from the more 
favourable outcome he says the trades would have had without the close-out and 
compensation for the distress caused to him.
The redress applied by Pllus500 to the matter was to re-calculate the close-out of the 
four trades with emphasis on the difference between the effect of the previous price 
of 1.7190 and the new price of 1.71679; the total difference (£1,023.23) and a £100 
payment for the inconvenience caused to Mr K was paid to him; the total payment 
was £1,123.23.
Mr Ks pursuit is essentially for the difference between the redress paid and his total 
claim (as summarised above). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, disagreed with Mr Ks claim and 
concluded that it should not be upheld. In the main, his view was that Mr Ks claim that he 
would have closed the trades at a more favourable price the following day was wholly 
hypothetical and that there is no neutral evidence to support it. He also noted evidence that 
the market generally moved against Mr Ks trades for the rest of the week. Overall, he 
considered that the claim was hypothetical and based on the benefit of hindsight; and he 
was not persuaded that it is a fair or reasonable claim.
Mr K did not accept this outcome and asked for a review. He agrees that Plus500s 
concession about the price does not automatically mean he is entitled to an adjustment at a 
price he believes he would have closed the trades at. He also accepts that the market 
moved against his trades for the rest of the week. However, he argues that there is evidence 
of the market first moving in favour of his trades before it started (and continued) to move in 
the opposite direction and he says this is the precise opportunity he could and would have 
used to close the trades at a more favourable price.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold the complaint and I agree with the analysis presented by the investigator.
I also understand Mr Ks position in the matter. His point that the margin call and close-out 
would not have happened with the revised price should not be ignored. The same applies to 
the implication that his trades would have remained intact if that was the case and they 
would have continued until a point at which they were closed. The problem that arises for 
him is that there is no evidence to establish or even suggest, on balance, the circumstances 
that would have applied to any point at which the trades were closed.
On the one hand, Mr K says Plus500s pricing error deprived him the opportunity to manage 
his trades to the best possible outcome/conclusion (better than the outcome they presently 
have (including the redress that has been paid)), but on the other hand there is no evidence 
that he had a pre-determined outcome/conclusion for the trades or that any such pre-
determined outcome/conclusion was more likely (than not) to happen. In addition, the 
unpredictability inherent within movements in the Forex (or any) market is relevant. The 
counter argument that arises from these points is that, but for the incident, his trades could 
also have met a conclusion that was worse than the outcome caused by what he views as 
Plus500s pricing error.
Evidence noted by the investigator about the market moving against the trades for the rest of 
the week lends support to the above counter argument. Mr Ks claim that he would have 
used a brief window of opportunity during which the price movement was in favour of the 
trades  and before the price movement changed and went against the trades  is indeed 
hypothetical and based on hindsight. There is no evidence that he expected such a window 
of opportunity and his argument in this respect is based on knowledge he now has  but did 
not have at the time  that the window existed.
I accept that but for the margin call and close-out the four trades would have remained 
intact, but as I have addressed above there is a lack of evidence on how they would have 
concluded thereafter. In the absence of a probable outcome for those trades (and one that 
favours Mr Ks claim) there is unfortunately a matching absence of grounds to uphold a claim 
for lost gains. In the circumstances, I consider that the redress calculated and paid by 
Plus500 is a fair resolution to the matter. It reflected the revised price and it included a 
reasonable payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mr K. Overall and on balance, I am 
not persuaded to order Plus500 to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman