DRN-2227365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
formerly Woolwich Building Society, referred to as Barclays.     
What happened
In 1999, Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest £10,000 in a Royal and Sun Alliance With-
Profits bond. 
It was recorded that their deposit savings (including premium bonds) came to approximately 
£37,500, and they had a net disposable monthly income of £200. It was also recorded that 
Mr and Mrs Bs objective was to invest a £10,000 lump sum  over seven years  for their 
daughter, and that they had a low (to medium) attitude to risk.
In July 2009, the investment was fully encashed, and Mr and Mrs B received £11,907.88. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint but offered £150 compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  for not delivering the service (in relation to the complaint handling) it 
aimed to achieve. In summary, it made the following key points:
The advice was suitable given their level of investment experience and attitude to 
risk. 
The adviser correctly assessed Mr and Mrs Bs objective and attitude to risk.
It was appropriate to invest a £10,000 lump sum  after which they still retained 
£28,550 in savings  and had no need to retain all their money in cash.  
Having maintained the bond until maturity shows that they could tolerate the risk and 
had no affordability issues. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the recommendation was unsuitable.
The With-Profits bond wasnt directly linked to the stockmarket, so its value didnt 
fluctuate with the financial markets in the way that a unit-linked product might. 
Instead, the product  made up of mixed assts such as UK equities, UK fixed 
interest, Overseas equities, and UK property  was designed to pay any profits the 
business made, in the form of bonuses, which cant be taken away and are 
guaranteed to be paid upon maturity regardless of the stockmarket.
This particular bond also had the added benefit that on the 10th anniversary, the 
investor would be guaranteed to get back the money they invested.    
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs B said: We cant lose it, however, a mixture would 
be fine, what can you do. The recommendation met that need.
The recommendation wasnt unsuitable given their investment experience and 
attitude to risk and circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs B also had around £28,000 left over in cash. Considering that they had 
no planned expenditures or liabilities, the amount invested wasnt unreasonable.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Its a common misconception in the industry that With-Profits funds offer guaranteed 
returns and an investors money is safe. 
Because this isnt correct, it cant say that Mr and Mrs B were sold the product 
without being misled.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest £10,000 in the With-Profits bond was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
In the Financial Report dated 26 April 1999 I note it was recorded: 
In keeping with your requirements to remain partly Low Risk. I recommend that you invest in 
a Low Risk With Profits Bond. This fund will give you a better return than is available using a 
deposit account with a bank or building society.
In the circumstances, notwithstanding their partly low risk attitude to risk, and objective, I 
dont think the recommendation was unreasonable. Im satisfied that the recommendation 
met their need to invest for their daughter  who had just started secondary school  until 
she was at least 18 years of age, whilst keeping their money reasonably safe.  
I note that unlike a unit-linked product this bond wasnt dependent on the fluctuations of the 
stockmarket, which isnt the sort of risk they were prepared to take with this portion of their 
money.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B werent experienced investors, but they werent without 
experience either. I note they had a £6,000 invested in a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) and 
£20,000 in premium bonds. 
I also note that as part of the advice in 1999, Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest £5,000 
into the Fidelity Maxi Equity ISA  To achieve the potential of a better return using a 
medium risk fund investing in Europe  which isnt the subject of complaint. 
I also note in the complaint form, the CMC says Having reviewed the sale we are concerned 
that the clients were advised to invest in a product that was medium risk when their attitude 
to risk was recorded as low risk, but in the circumstances Im unable to say that this was the 
case with whats been described as the Low Risk Fund With-Profits bond. 
Mr and Mrs B had a reasonable amount of funds left over in cash after investing. 
Considering that they had no planned expenditures or liabilities, Im unable to say that the recommendation to invest a £10,000 lump sum was unsuitable. The fact they maintained the 
bond for 10 years also suggests that they didnt have an affordability issue either. 
I dont think the investigator was suggesting that this was a guaranteed product. Instead, I 
think he was suggesting that as an added benefit, this bond was guaranteed (as a minimum) 
to return the capital on the 10th anniversary. But evidently there were no such guarantees if it 
were surrendered sooner. What they were to receive, were any bonuses applied to the bond. 
Im satisfied that the £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman