DRN-3994413
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, did not uphold his claim 
for a refund of his purchase of a defective watch, and dealt with his claim too slowly.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr P bought a watch for £346.75 with his Barclaycard. He says the watch 
did not keep time, and so he sent it back to the retailer to be repaired, but when the watch 
was returned to him it had not been repaired and the strap had been damaged.
In August 2022 Mr P asked Barclaycard for a full refund of his purchase. He complains that 
Barclaycard did not respond to his emails, and when he phoned it put him on hold for nearly 
15 minutes. In September he brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He said that in 
October, Barclaycard had written to Mr P to ask him to send it some evidence  specifically, 
proof that the watch was defective, and his correspondence to and from the retailer. He said 
that since Mr P had not sent Barclaycard what it had asked for, Barclaycard had not been 
obliged to refund him. He did not agree that Barclaycard had provided poor service. (He 
added that if Mr P provides to Barclaycard the information it has asked for, Barclaycard can 
still consider his claim for a refund again.)
Mr P was disappointed with that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator gave.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that where goods are purchased on credit, 
the credit provider is jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract by the retailer. And 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that if the goods are defective, then that is a breach of 
contract by the retailer. So if Mr Ps watch was defective at the time he bought it, then 
Barclaycard is liable for that.
I think it is reasonable for Barclaycard to ask its customers for evidence of alleged defects in 
goods that are the subject of claims for compensation under section 75. And although there 
is no legal obligation on its customers to contact the retailer before approaching Barclaycard 
for a refund, where a customer has contacted a retailer first, as in this case, I think it is 
reasonable of Barclaycard to ask to see a copy of all of the correspondence involved  
particularly in a case where it is alleged that the retailer caused further damage after the item 
was sent for repair.
Barclaycard specifically asked Mr P to obtain an independent report, and offered to cover the 
cost of that report, up to £75. I dont think that was unreasonable, but if Mr P had provided 
some other evidence instead, then I would still have expected Barclaycard to consider it, and 
I would have considered it too. And if the report had cost more than £75, then depending on 
what it said, and how much it cost, I might have required Barclaycard to pay the balance.
However, it does not appear that Mr P provided the evidence requested, and so I dont think 
it was unreasonable of Barclaycard to decline his claim. If he provides such evidence in the 
future, then I am sure that Barclaycard will look at it, provided he does so within six years of 
his purchase. But for now, I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything.
I dont think that Barclaycard ignored Mr Ps emails. His first email to Barclaycard was on 26 
August 2022, he sent a one-line follow-up email the next day, and Barclaycard 
acknowledged his claim with an email on 29 August, which was the next working day, a 
Monday. That is a perfectly punctual reply. Barclaycard wrote to him again on 3, 7 and 14 
September, so I cant agree that it was ignoring him.
Sometimes during a phone call, a business has to put a customer on hold for a while. I dont 
think that 10 to 15 minutes is excessive. I agree it is a bit annoying when it happens, but not 
enough to merit awarding compensation for, in my view.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman