DRN-3190321
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). He says he received poor customer 
service and wasnt given notice that his agreement was going to be terminated.
Mr W has been represented on this complaint. But, to keep things simple, I will only refer to 
Mr W in this decision
What happened
Mr W acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement taken with VWFS in April 2016. 
Towards the end of 2018 some repayments were missed on the agreement. Several arrears 
reminders were sent to Mr W along with default notices. Mr W raised a complaint about the 
amount of arrears and VWFS issued a final response in April 2019. This partly upheld 
Mr Ws complaint as VWFS said it shouldve acknowledged the complaint sooner. But, 
VWFS said the arrears of £1,100.98 were correct.
In June 2019 a further default notice was sent to Mr W. And in July 2019 Mr W spoke to 
VWFS. VWFS says a payment plan for the arrears on the account was agreed on this call, 
which it says Mr W broke. 
In August 2019 a further default notice was sent to Mr W. This said arrears of £1,284.47 
needed to be cleared by 4 September 2019. Mr W says he never received this notice.
On 10 October 2019 VWFS terminated the agreement and the debt was passed to a 
collection agent.
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to VWFS. It issued its final response in 
December 2019. This said, in summary, that the agreement was terminated due to arrears 
from September 2018, October 2018 and June 2019. It said Mr W didnt complete the 
payment arrangement agreed in July 2019 and didnt remedy the default notice from August 
2019. It said three default letters had been sent to Mr W in 2019 so he wouldve been aware 
of the actions that could be taken. And it said all the default notices were sent to the correct 
address.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. In summary, he said 
the service he received was VWFS was very poor. He said the reason the account went into 
arrears was because he had been trying to change the payment date for the direct debit for 
around 18 months. He said he was told around 11 times that this was completed, but it 
wasnt changed until July 2019. He said he had been cut off various times on the phone and 
had been told he would receive calls back but didnt. And he said he didnt receive the 
default notice from August 2019.
While the complaint was with us, Mr W also said the collection agent kept getting in touch 
despite being told by VWFS that it would pause this. He said he had incurred various costs 
for the car, such as storage, insurance, tax, and an MOT that he wished to be reimbursed 
for. At one point, Mr W said he would be happy for VWFS to collect the car, but then later 
changed his mind. As far as Im aware, Mr W still has the car in his possession.
An investigator at our service issued an opinion on the case. In summary, this explained she 
thought the complaint should be upheld. She said VWFS shouldve taken further action to 
get in touch with Mr W after the payment arrangement from July 2019. And she said she 
believed Mr W didnt receive the default notices. She said Mr W should repay the arrears. 
But, she said VWFS should collect the car, waive any termination charges, reimburse Mr W 
for various costs, remove the default from his credit file and pay him £250.
VWFS was unhappy with this. It said Mr W had missed various payments and was in breach 
of the agreement. It said an arrangement to repay the arrears was agreed on the call from 
July 2019 which was broken. It said it wasnt agreed on the call that it would be in further 
contact. It said it wasnt fair to say Mr W didnt receive letters as they were addressed 
correctly. And it said it was Mr Ws choice to keep the car so it shouldnt reimburse any 
costs. 
The case was then passed to a different investigator. They reviewed the case and issued 
another opinion. This explained they didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that hed listened to the call from July 2019. He said he thought Mr W was aware 
of the arrears and arranged a plan to repay them. He thought Mr W didnt make these 
repayments as agreed. He said he couldnt see requests to change the payment date when 
Mr W said he made them. And, while he said an email from Mr W wasnt replied to after the 
call in July 2019, he still shouldve made the repayments.
Mr W said he was very angry and unhappy our opinion had been changed on the case. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr W complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ws complaint against 
VWFS.
I should firstly note that there is quite a lot of background and information on this case. Im 
going to concentrate on what I think are the key issues here. Where I havent commented on 
a specific point raised, or mentioned something in the background above, this doesnt mean 
I consider it unimportant. I will focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint, which 
reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to reassure Mr W, and VWFS, that I have 
carefully considered all of the points raised and all of the evidence provided.
What I need to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable of VWFS to terminate the 
agreement when it did, if it provided Mr W with notice that this would be the case and if the 
level of service Mr W received fell below what he couldve expected.
Firstly, I can see the credit agreement says: we will be entitled to terminate the agreement, 
on expiry of the requisite statuary written notice, if you are in breach any of the terms of this 
agreement. Im satisfied Mr W signed this agreement and so agreed to its terms.
Ive seen statements of the account that show arrears from September 2018, October 2018, and June 2019, which is when VWFS say the arrears in question are from.
Ive considered what was discussed on the phone in July 2019. During this call Mr W agrees 
that he will make June 2019s payment that day. He also says he has a standing order set 
up for £183.50 which he would extend to cover the other arrears. In a later email Mr W also 
confirms he knew he should be paying £183.50 a month to bring the account up to date.
It appears one payment of £183.50 was made, but no other additional payments were made 
towards the agreement. So, Im satisfied this payment arrangement was broken.
Ive then gone on to consider if it was reasonable to terminate the account at this point. Our 
first investigator said she didnt think it was, as it was agreed on the call that further contact 
would be made. But, I dont agree here. I think Mr W wouldve understood from the call that 
he needed to make the payments as agreed.
Over a month after the payment arrangement was made, VWFS sent Mr W a default notice 
on 16 August 2019. Our first investigator said she didnt think it was most likely Mr W 
received this. But, having seen a copy of this letter, it appears it was sent to Mr Ws correct 
address. So, I think on balance its most likely that he did receive it. This default notice 
explained: 
IF YOU DO NOT TAKE THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE BEFORE THE DATE 
SHOWN THEN THE FURTHER ACTION SET OUT BELOW MAY BE TAKEN AGAINST 
YOU
If you fail to pay the arrears before 04 SEPT 2019, you will have deemed to have 
repudiated the Agreement and we may take action to enforce our rights under the 
agreement. Possible actions may involve:
Terminating the agreement
Im satisfied Mr W didnt meet the terms of this default notice.
Ive also considered that Mr W had also received several earlier default notices that also 
explained the agreement could be terminated if they werent satisfied. And VWFS had 
frequently sent Mr W reminder notices about his prior arrears that said, You need to bring 
your account up to date to avoid a default notice being issued which may end in termination 
of your agreement.
So, thinking about all of this Im satisfied Mr W most likely received the default notice. Im 
satisfied he wouldve understood he needed to clear the arrears and that the agreement 
could be terminated if he failed to do so. And Im satisfied he didnt meet the terms of the 
default notice.
Ive also thought about the fact that, at the point VWFS terminated the agreement, some of 
the arrears had been outstanding for over a year. And payments had been missed on 
numerous occasions. Considering all of this, I dont think VWFS did anything wrong when it 
terminated Mr Ws agreement.
Ive very carefully considered what Mr W said about the arrears being the fault of VWFS, as 
he had tried to change the payment date on multiple occasions. Mr W said he tried to do this 
about 11 times over a period of 18 months. But, this isnt reflected in the system notes from 
VWFS and I havent seen enough evidence to make me think its most likely this was the 
case.
But, even if I did accept Mr W had tried to change the payment date, I still wouldnt think this was a reason for missing the payments. I say this as Mr W wanted to move his payment 
date forward in the month to the first day from the eighth day. If Mr W assumed the payment 
date had changed, presumably he wouldve had funds in his account on the first, which 
wouldve remained there until the eighth. So, although I understand this wouldve been 
frustrating, I cant see that this wouldve affected his ability to make the repayments.
Thinking about all of this, Im not satisfied the payment date issue caused the problems 
Mr W had which led to the agreement being terminated.
Ive also considered what Mr W said about having another agreement that he made 
repayments on. But, I need to consider what happened on this particular agreement. So this 
doesnt change my opinion.
Ive then gone on to consider the service issues Mr W told us about.
I can see that two emails Mr W sent to a specific staff member were not responded to. This 
falls below the level of service Id expect to see. The emails do mention that Mr W wants to 
discuss the account. But, these emails were sent after the deadline on the default notice. So, 
I dont think VWFS needs to take any further action here.
I have thought about the overall service Mr W said he received. But theres little evidence to 
back up what hes said about being cut off on the phone or being promised call backs that 
werent received. Based on the very little evidence available, I havent seen enough to make 
me think VWFS needs to take any action on this point.
I know Mr W is unhappy with contact from the third party that the debt was passed to while 
the complaint was being investigated. Ive seen VWFS asked for collections to be paused as 
agreed with Mr W and its apologised this wasnt done. Ultimately, it was VWFSs decision to 
pause this action and I dont think needs to do anything further to put this right.
I have also considered that Mr W wants to be reimbursed for various costs he incurred while 
he has still had the car in his possession. But, it was his choice to keep possession of the 
car. So, I dont think in this particular case that VWFS needs to cover any of these expenses.
I do want to again reassure Mr W that Ive carefully considered everything else hes told us 
about this complaint. But, having done so, this doesnt change my opinion.
Finally, I would politely remind VWFS that it should treat Mr Ws current situation with 
forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman