DRN-3948536
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has unfairly handled a 
claim made under his car insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr S or Admiral includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In December 2021 Mr S says his car was damaged due to driving over a broken tree 
branch. He took the vehicle to his dealership who he uses for servicing. They 
provided advice and due to a high quote, he took it to a different garage for repair.
In June 2022 Mr S reported the claim to Admiral asking for it to cover the costs of 
repair. Admiral says it requested a copy of the invoice for repairs during this call.
Admiral says the invoice was provided in late August 2022, and its engineers advised 
the repairs in question appeared to be for mechanical issues and likely to have been 
caused by drive on damage and not impact damage. They also said there was no 
sign of impact damage to the vehicle and that mechanical failure and wear and tear 
wasnt covered by the policy.
Admiral said it reached out to the dealership who initially inspected it who said no 
impact damage had been reported, and that it had been provided to them due to a 
buzzing noise and leaking fluid which they said were due to corrosion to pipes.
Following an inspection Admiral asked for further evidence of the incident. It said the 
engineer who reviewed the vehicle said there was no impact damage and noted 
corrosion to pipes.
Mr S since withdrew his claim but complained to Admiral. This included concerns 
about its handling and delays, and the wording of the letter it sent to him which he 
said was threatening and amounted to harassment. He also said he was unable to 
take photos of the impact damage prior to the repair as he didnt know the cause.
Admiral stood by its findings and said if Mr S wanted to continue his claim he would 
need to co-operate with its investigations. It also said its email included standard 
wording that outlined the significance of providing honest information and the 
implications if a policyholder has been dishonest. 
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
there was no evidence to support the cause of the damage was due to impact. So, 
she felt Admirals requests were reasonable. She also was satisfied the wording of its 
correspondence was fair.
Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. This means I 
wont necessarily comment on everything Mr S has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties.
Mr Ss policy covers him for certain insured perils such as accidents, vandalism, fire, 
theft and others. And the insurance is subject to exclusions and conditions. Namely, 
this policy says it wont cover wear and tear, or loss or damage caused by 
mechanical failure, breakdown or malfunction.
So, the starting point I have to consider is whether an insured event has taken place. 
Mr S says the damage to his car took place due to an accident. And hes been clear 
he doesnt have photographic evidence of the car prior to its repair to demonstrate 
this. Nor has he provided any technical opinion or evidence from the repairing garage 
that supports the cause was impact damage from driving over a branch.
Admiral has said in reaching its decision it has reviewed all of the evidence including 
the invoice for repairs and spoken to the dealership who first reviewed the vehicle 
after issues occurred. Im satisfied these were sensible steps to try to establish 
whether the claim was covered. 
Admiral says the evidence points to the damage occurring due to a mechanical 
breakdown and wear and tear over time, with no evidence of impact to the car. 
Having reviewed the available evidence, including comments from the dealership, Im 
satisfied Admirals position is fair and it does appear the most likely cause of damage 
was not an insured peril under the policy.
Mr S has complained of delays in handling the claim. Looking at the timeline of 
events, I disagree, and Im satisfied Admiral did investigate promptly and gave its 
position soon after he provided it with the invoice.
Mr S has raised concerns about the tone of the letter he was sent that makes 
reference to the consequences of fraud amongst other things. Ive read this carefully 
and Im satisfied this is an accurate letter that details a policyholders obligations and 
the potential consequences if these arent met. While this may have alarmed Mr S, I 
dont consider this to be a failing on Admirals part.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman