DRN-4318700
The complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has failed to treat her fairly 
when she asked for support with her mortgage payments.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here.
But in summary, Miss T has raised concerns with Halifax and the information and support it
has provided her over a number of years. She feels it failed to provide her with correct
information about her options which had a knock-on impact on the actions she took.
Miss T believes Halifax unfairly declined her applications for a payment holiday on her
mortgage and unfairly increased her interest rate when it was aware she was in
financial difficulty and would have found it difficult to move to a new product or change
lenders. She feels it should have frozen the interest rate on her mortgage when she entered
into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA).
Our investigator said that we cannot consider all of the complaint points Miss T has raised as
some of these had been brought to the service too late as more than six months had passed
since Halifax addressed these concerns in its final response. But we could consider anything
addressed in its final response issued in October 2022. This was accepted by Miss T and
Halifax.
Our investigator looked at Miss Ts complaint and said that they didnt think Halifax had
acted unfairly. He said Miss T didnt qualify for a payment holiday in June 2022 when she
asked for one  so even if he thought she wasnt aware of her ability to request this on her
own  it made no difference as it would have been declined, even if requested sooner.
He also didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly when it hadnt offered a product transfer. He
didnt think Miss T had made a full application for one in June 2022 as she didnt come back
to Halifax after discussing her options. So even if she was given incorrect information in the
call, Halifax hadnt been given the opportunity to assess an application and see if it could
offer a new rate.
Miss T disagreed with the outcome. She feels the crux of the complaint is that Halifax didnt
give her correct information about her ability to make changes to the mortgage with her sole
authority. Because of its misinformation, she didnt take action that she otherwise would 
have and shes lost out as a result.
Our investigators opinion didnt change. He accepted Miss T had been given incorrect
advice about the consent from the second party to the mortgage, but he didnt think this
made a difference. The May 2022 payment had already been missed when she was given
this advice and no application for a product transfer was made as Miss T didnt come back to
Halifax about this.
Because Miss T disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint on 28 July 2023.  I explained I was planning on 
reaching a different outcome to that of our investigator and that I intended to uphold Miss Ts 
complaint in part. Ive included below what I said:
Miss Ts mortgage is in joint names with her estranged ex-husband, he would also be an
eligible complainant and wed generally expect both parties to be joined to the complaint.
However, based on the circumstances of Miss T, I feel it right we continue to look at the
complaint in her name only and Halifax has agreed to this.
Payment holiday requests
Halifax feels it made it clear to Miss T in June 2021 that it has a sole authority policy. So she
should have been aware that she could request a payment holiday without her ex-partners
consent and she should have been aware that she could apply for a product transfer with her
sole authority. Having reviewed the information available, I dont think this is a fair
expectation.
The notes provided to support the conversation that took place with Miss T and Halifax in
June 2021 say there is sometimes ways around the joint party so I think it was indicated
that Miss T had an option to make this request on her own. But I dont think it would be fair to
say this was made clear in any great detail. Miss T said she didnt call Halifax before
missing her payment in May 2022 because she believed she needed the consent of her ex-
husband to have this agreed. And as previous payment holidays had not been agreed
without this consent and with the lack of clarity on the messaging, I dont think Miss T would
have been aware she could request the payment holiday on her own.
However, even if Miss T had called Halifax ahead of missing her May 2022 payment, I dont
think a payment holiday would have been agreed. Halifax has provided the requirements it
places on customers when a payment holiday is requested. One of these is a requirement
that the account must not be in arrears or have been in historic arrears in the 12 months
prior to the request. Based on this, I dont think Miss T would have met Halifaxs requirement
or that the payment holiday would have been granted. So although Im not persuaded it was
as clear as it could have been on her options around sole authority and requests, I dont
think its impacted what was available here or Miss Ts actions.
The product transfer request
When Miss T spoke with the product transfer team she was told that her ex-husband would
need to provide consent for any product transfer. This was not correct as Halifax does allow
some customers to transfer a product with sole authority/consent. It has said that Miss T
would likely have qualified for this but as she didnt complete an application to transfer the
product, it wasnt able to confirm if this was the case. And based on the level of arrears on
Miss Ts mortgage now, she would not qualify for a product transfer.
Miss T has said she didnt request the product transfer because of being told she needed
her ex-husbands consent. I appreciate Halifax feels Miss T was aware previously that she
didnt need this consent, but Im not persuaded this can be relied on when its adviser told her
explicitly, this was something they needed.
When Miss T spoke with the adviser in June and a product transfer was discussed, she said
she was not sure whether she might need to sell her property in the near future. But Miss T
wanted to stop her monthly payments increasing and a product transfer would have offered
certainty for a period of time with these.
Although Miss T met Halifaxs criteria to request a product transfer on her sole authority, a
product transfer was not guaranteed. Had a full application been made, Halifax would haveneeded to consider Miss Ts needs and circumstances at the time. In short, it would have
needed to consider whether it was right to recommend a fixed rate product to Miss T at that
point.
A fixed rate would have given Miss T certainty on her repayments for a period of time, but
Miss T mentioned in the call that she was considering selling her property in a year or so to
pay off some of her debts that were part of her IVA. The adviser in this call explained what
this could mean if Miss T was in a fixed rate product. Depending on whether she was in a
two- or five-year product, she would incur an early repayment charge (ERC). He said Halifax
didnt have any fixed rate products that didnt include an ERC if the property was sold and
the mortgage needed to be repaid early.
An ERC would have added to the costs Miss T had to pay if she took this option. So a fixed
rate product may not have been in Miss Ts best interests and Miss T would have needed to
consider this when deciding whether to apply for a new product.
I accept that it cannot be confirmed if Halifax would have been able to offer a new product
had a full application been made. But I think the incorrect information would have reasonably
resulted in Miss T feeling like the product transfer wasnt an option when it was. And
although I think a potential ERC may have added a barrier to Miss T and her thoughts on the
best next steps, it is more likely she didnt request a transfer because of the false information
about needing her ex-husbands authority.
Miss T is a vulnerable consumer who has requested support from Halifax at different points
over the years. It was aware of her personal circumstances and the impact of her separation
from her ex-partner. The incorrect information has left Miss T with a loss of expectation as
she now feels like she would have been able to secure a rate in June 2022. I think its right
that Halifax recognises the additional distress caused here.
Should Halifax have frozen Miss Ts interest rate
Miss T also complains that Halifax has treated her unfairly by allowing the interest rate on
her mortgage to increase after her IVA was put in place.
Miss Ts mortgage was on a fixed rate product from February 2016 and her repayment
amount was set as the interest rate was fixed until 30 April 2020, after which point it reverted
to the Halifax Homeowner Variable Rate. So the IVA was put in place when the mortgage
was still within the product term.
After her product expired in April 2020, Miss T could have requested a new product from
Halifax if she wished to secure her repayments. And I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when
the repayment increased as its variable rate increased with changes in the Bank of England
base rate. These increases have been in line with the mortgage contract and I see no
reason to ask Halifax to do anything else in relation to this part of Miss Ts complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it is fair to ask Halifax to offer Miss T a retrospective rate from June 2022 as I
cannot be certain it would have offered this based on her needs and circumstances at the
time. She was considering selling her property in the near future and this will have meant an
ERC and the impact of this would have needed to be considered and it could have resulted
in Miss T being in a worse position if a rate was secured.But I think it is fair that Halifax recognise that its misinformation will have had an impact on
Miss T and the choices she made, adding to the distress she now faces with financial
situation as she feels shes lost out previously.
To recognise this impact, Halifax should pay Miss T £350.
Halifax responded to say it accepted the proposed outcome and provisional decision. 
Miss T responded to say that she didnt think the decision went far enough and the proposed 
outcome is not fair. She does not feel the decision fully takes account of the impact of the 
misinformation provided by Halifax. She said she was offered a fixed rate when she spoke 
with Halifaxs adviser but this wasnt applied for because of the misinformation. With this in 
mind, Miss T has challenged whether she would have been successful in securing a new 
rate had she made an application in June 2022.
As both parties have responded to the provisional decision, the complaint has been passed 
back to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered this complaint, Im not persuaded that I should depart from the 
provisional decision set out above. I know Miss T will be disappointed with this, but Ill 
explain why I still believe it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to apply a retrospective rate to her 
mortgage.
Miss T has not made comment in relation to all of my provisional findings, so Ive not 
revisited this here. Instead Ive focused on the comments she has made and why my 
decision is in line with my provisional one.
Miss T has highlighted in her response to the provisional decision that I believe 
misinformation provided by Halifax was a significant contributor to her not making a full 
application to apply for a new product in June 2022. She has also said Halifax told her in this 
call that she would be able to fix a new rate in her circumstances. So had it not provided the 
incorrect information, she would have proceeded with the application.
I agree that the most likely reason Miss T did not speak to Halifax again about the rate 
change is because of the misinformation. But I dont agree Halifax said the product transfer 
was guaranteed. 
Halifax has a sole authority policy which would allow it to progress an application made by 
Miss T. But it also would have needed to assess her needs and circumstances at the time as 
part of this process. As Ive said, Miss T had explained she was thinking about selling her 
property in the future and she asked questions about any potential fees when doing this 
when first talking about her options applying for a new product. 
The adviser explained it was a quick process to make an application and that Miss T could 
have called and made this right up until there was only a few days left in the month. But they 
spent a long time talking about the need to consider her circumstances and not rush into 
fixing a rate which could end up making her situation worse if she decided to sell her 
property in the near future. I think it is likely this would have been focused on had a full 
application been made and Im not persuaded that Halifax would agree it was in the best interest of Miss T to fix her rate. I say this as all of the fixed rate options it had available 
included an early repayment charge (ERC) which would need to have been paid if the 
mortgage was repaid ahead of the product term end.
Miss T didnt make an application to complete a product transfer and I believe this was due 
to misinformation. I cannot be sure what the outcome of the application would have been 
had Halifax provided correct information. So I dont think it is fair to ask Halifax to apply a 
retrospective interest rate to Miss Ts mortgage now. But it is clear that Miss T will be 
disappointed by the realisation that she could have had an application considered with her 
sole authority and this loss off opportunity will be distressing. Halifax should compensate 
Miss T for this.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay Miss T £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the 
loss of opportunity due to the misinformation provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman