DRN-3829116
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont return the money he transferred to an incorrect bank 
account.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M attempted to make an international payment of £270 to his sisters
account abroad. However, an error was made with the payee details and the money ended
up going into someone elses account, not Mr Ms sisters.
Mr M says he phoned Lloyds Bank within 30 minutes of realising the mistake that the money
had gone to the wrong recipient and he requested the transfer be cancelled. At the same
time, Mr M says he made his way to a Lloyds Bank branch to try and get things resolved
quickly. However, Mr M says he was on hold with Lloyds Bank on the phone for over an
hour. And the advisor who tried to help him in branch was also kept on hold when they tried
to contact the relevant team to ask to cancel the transfer. Mr M says he tried to rectify things
promptly, but that Lloyds Bank havent been to able to get him his money back.
Mr M says he was able to find the person who received the money incorrectly and he wrote
to them to ask them to return the £270 to him. Unfortunately, the person hasnt responded to
Mr M and also hasnt returned his money. Mr M also wrote to the persons bank to ask them
to return the money, but unfortunately, he hasnt had a response from them.
Lloyds Bank say they received Mr Ms request for the payment to be cancelled on the same
day the transfer was made. However, although a payment can take up to four working days
to be received, the funds had already left Mr Ms account when Lloyds Bank received his
cancellation request. Lloyds Bank say they sent several requests to the beneficiary bank to
cancel the payment Mr M incorrectly made, but that theyve not received a response. Lloyds
Bank recognised the difficulties Mr M had in reaching them and the costs incurred as a result
of his call to them. In recognition of the call costs, Lloyds Bank paid Mr M £24 and they also
paid him £100 for not responding to his concerns sooner. Mr M said he accepted this 
because the crux of his complaint was about the payment that hadnt gone to the correct
account and Lloyds Banks handling of their attempt to try and get the money back.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns. In summary, he said Lloyds Bank tried to
retrieve the money from the incorrect bank but were unsuccessful in doing so. However, our
Investigator didnt think Lloyds Bank could be held responsible for the money being sent to
the wrong account. Overall, our Investigator didnt think Lloyds Bank had acted
unreasonably, therefore, he didnt recommend Lloyds Bank do anything more to put things
right for Mr M.
Mr M responded and reiterated he did everything he could to try and rectify things quickly.
However, the delay was caused by Lloyds Bank as he struggled to successfully get through
to them over the phone to be able to ask for help. Mr M also said he expected Lloyds Bank
to use internal mechanisms to ask the recipient bank to repay the money to him. So, the
complaint has been passed to me for a decision on the matter.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
Id like to start by saying that I can understand the stress and worry Mr M has gone through
as a result of the money he tried to transfer to his sister going to the incorrect account. And
Im sorry to recently read Mr Ms health isnt too good.
International payments, like the one Mr M made, are made through a system called SWIFT,
which passes messages between banks. When a bank or building society makes an
overseas transfer, using the SWIFT messaging system, a corresponding bank may be
involved to join up the payer and the payees banks. The SWIFT messaging system is a
secure system which allows banks to instruct each other on payments and accounts that
they hold with each other.
Lloyds Bank have provided details of the SWIFT codes used in this transaction and have
confirmed they were correct at the time. This was also confirmed by their international
helpdesk who explained the codes are checked when setting the payment up. So, Ive got no
reason or other evidence to suggest the SWIFT codes were incorrect and that this caused
the payment to go into someone, other than Mr Ms sisters, account.
Mr M has provided his sisters account details which seem to be different to the beneficiary
customer details on the payee information Lloyds Bank has provided us with. Based on Mr
Ms testimony, hes acknowledged he sent the £270 to the wrong recipient. So, Im
persuaded that the money went to the wrong account as a result of the recipient details
being inputted incorrectly by Mr M, rather than something Lloyds Bank did.
International transfers are accepted on an irrevocable basis which means they often cant be
reversed. But this isnt an absolute and it may be possible to cancel or recall a transfer.
When Lloyds Bank received Mr Ms request for the transfer to be cancelled, I would have
expected them to have made the necessary enquiries, through the SWIFT messaging
system, to find out where the money went and to take prompt, reasonable steps to try and
recall the payment on a best endeavours basis. If its too late to cancel, an attempt to recall
the money can be made, although  if the money has already reached its destination  this
will require co-operation from the recipient of the money.
I can see from the information provided by Lloyds Bank that the transfer was made on 24
November 2021 at around 12:26pm. Lloyds Banks internal notes show Mr M then spoke to 
an advisor at Lloyds Bank on the same day at around 13:51pm and requested for the
payment to be cancelled. Lloyds Bank then sent a cancellation notice SWIFT message at
around 14:20pm. A further SWIFT message from the corresponding bank was sent on 1
December 2021 where they contacted the beneficiary bank to recall the money.
I can see from the information provided by Lloyds Bank that another SWIFT message was
sent on 6 December 2021. And a further SWIFT message from the corresponding bank on
15 December 2021 which said the payment had been sent in error and for the beneficiary
bank to request for the incorrect payee to return the funds. The last SWIFT message
appeared to have been sent to the beneficiary bank on 23 December 2021 and in this, a
request for an update was made. Lastly, on 3 January 2022, the corresponding bank
confirmed they closed the case as the beneficiary bank never responded, despite their
several requests.
Having considered all of the above, I currently think Lloyds Bank acted as quickly as they
could and did all they reasonably could to attempt the cancellation and recall the payment -
they sent a cancellation SWIFT message not too long after Mr M got through to them to
explain the situation. It seems from the evidence provided that the payment had already
reached its destination and it doesnt seem the beneficiarys bank engaged with LloydsBank. However, I dont think I can hold Lloyds Bank responsible for the lack of reply from the
beneficiary bank. And, as a refund required the beneficiary banks co-operation, that means I
cant hold Lloyds Bank responsible for the payment not being refunded.
I appreciate Mr M says he acted quickly but that it was Lloyds Bank who didnt act quick
enough - I can understand Mr Ms frustrations in having to wait some time to get through to
someone for them to help him over the phone. Lloyds Bank recognised the difficulties Mr M
had in successfully reaching someone and paid him £100 compensation for this which I think
is fair for the inconvenience caused. Lloyds Bank have also paid Mr M £24 in recognition of
the call costs. And I think this is fair in the circumstances as it seems from what Mr M has
told us he was on hold for over an hour before he got through to someone. So, I think this
award is a fair reflection of the costs Mr M incurred trying to put this matter right.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr M has faced in trying to get the payee to return the
money they incorrectly received. And that he feels the payee is still unlawfully in possession
of the funds. But Im only able to ask Lloyds Bank to reimburse Mr M of these funds if I find
theyve done something wrong. However, as explained above, I currently dont think Lloyds
Bank acted unfairly in the time they took to try and reverse the payment.
I understand from what Mr M has more recently told us that this situation happened again,
but that he was able to speak directly to the receiving bank and the funds were reversed. Im
only looking into the circumstances of the complaint Mr M has brought to us and Im not able
to comment on this second instance.
Lloyds Bank agreed with my provisional decision. Mr M provided further comments and in 
summary, he said Lloyds Bank could have relayed to the beneficiary bank to reimburse the 
money and place liability on the beneficiary bank to return the funds. Mr M also said Lloyds 
Bank say they promptly sent a request to the beneficiary bank to reverse the funds but that 
there were four days grace period for a response, which Lloyds Bank say they didnt receive. 
Mr M says SWIFT is a robust process and should be able to quickly return the funds, which 
wasnt the case in Mr Ms situation. Mr M raised a question over Lloyds Banks commitment 
to him as their customer to get his money back. Mr M also reached out to the bank who 
incorrectly received the funds and provided their email response to us to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As previously explained, when Lloyds Bank received Mr Ms request for the transfer to be 
cancelled, I would have expected them to have taken reasonable steps and act promptly to 
recall the payment. Mr M mentioned a grace period of four days, but from what I can see, 
Lloyds Bank acted soon after Mr M made the request for the transfer to be cancelled  a 
cancellation notice SWIFT message was sent around 40 minutes after this request. But even 
then, Lloyds Banks attempts to recall the payment was done on a best endeavours basis, 
as per their internal process guidance. They didnt guarantee Mr M they were going to be 
able to successfully cancel the transfer and recall the payment. 
Having looked through the evidence provided by Lloyds Bank; it doesnt seem they received 
a response from the beneficiary bank to the SWIFT messages they sent. But this isnt 
something I can hold Lloyds Bank responsible for  as mentioned, I would expect them to try 
and recall the money on a best endeavours basis.Ive read the email Mr M has provided us with. But I dont think this shows Lloyds Bank 
havent acted fairly when trying to recall the payment. Overall, I wont be asking Lloyds Bank 
to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman