DRN-2262612
The complaint
Mr L complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have declined a claim 
he made on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr L made a claim for treatment received by his dog to remove her anal 
glands.
 
Red Sands declined the claim on the basis that the policy only covered treatment for 365 
days from the onset of a condition. They explained Mr Ls dog was first taken to the vet with 
anal gland issues in December 2017, and because of this the cover for that issue expired in 
December 2018.
 
An exclusion was also placed on the policy covering all claims relating to the anal and 
perineal region with effect from February 2018. 
Red Sands explained that renewal documents had been sent to Mr L each year, asking him 
to contact them if hed taken his dog to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. 
They said if Mr L had told them about the vet visit in December 2017, they could have told 
him about the 365-day cover period and that an exclusion would be applied at the next 
renewal. 
Mr L disagreed. He felt the problem had started in August 2019 and that the incident in 
December 2017 was a single incident which was completely resolved at the time.
 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Red Sands had declined the claim correctly, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Having looked through the medical 
history, she agreed Mr Ls dogs condition had first presented in December 2017.
Mr L disagreed. He said that anal gland abscesses are extremely common and so he didnt 
think an average person would think it necessary to report the matter to their insurer.
 
Because Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with our investigator for the same reasons. I will explain 
why.
Mr L has a basic plus time-limited policy which covers a condition for up to 365 days from 
the date the condition is first noted by the policyholder or their vet, up to the policy financial 
limit.
 
The terms and conditions of the policy confirm that cover isnt provided after the 365 days 
have passed. This is a significant term, so I would expect a business to highlight this outside 
of the terms of the contract. And I can see that Red Sands highlighted it in the policy 
summary, which says:
 A Time  Limited  policy  offers  cover  from accidents,  illnesses  and conditions.  Time  
Limited  policies  mean  that your pet will be covered  for 365 days  after the condition  is 
first noted  by yourself  or your vet. This could  mean  when  symptoms  first arose  or when  
an accident  happened.  Once  these  365 days  have  elapsed  this illness,  injury  or 
condition  will no longer  be covered,  and exclusions  regarding  that illness  or injury  will 
then be applied to your policy.
As this term is highlighted multiple times, Im satisfied Red Sands took reasonable steps to 
bring it to Mr Ls attention.
Looking at Mr Ls dogs medical history, I can see that in December 2017, she was taken to 
the vet as shed been chewing at her back end and was struggling to pass faeces. The 
examination showed that she had a left anal gland abscess which was later drained.
In August 2019, Mr Ls dog was taken to the vet again and another abscess had appeared in 
the same place as before.
 
Further vet appointments took place in September and November 2019 and the vet notes 
state there was no improvement and that, She has been having problems with her left AG 
for years and owner doesnt think it never really goes away.
Because of this, the anal gland removal took place in December 2019 and the claim was 
made. I note the vet also said that the type of surgery performed on Mr Ls dog is only 
recommended after repeat issues of the same problem. This suggests to me that the surgery 
was done because the same issue kept coming up. 
An email from the vet explains that the anal gland problem reoccurred in 2019 and hadnt 
been persistent since 2017 when the problem was first treated. While I understand that the 
surgery wouldnt have been relevant in 2017, the issue claimed for in 2019 is the same issue 
that had occurred at that time.
 
I also understand that, after the visit in December 2017, Mr Ls dog didnt need to attend the 
vet for anal gland issues again until August 2019. But again, even though this is the case, 
the problem that presented itself in 2019 was the same as that in 2017, an abscess on the 
left anal gland. And the policy doesnt provide cover after 365 days from when the symptoms 
first arose. 
I understand that these issues may be common in dogs, however I need to think about 
whether Red Sands have acted fairly in saying the procedure isnt covered under the terms 
of the policy.
 
Red Sands have declined the claim as cover for this issue would have expired in December 
2018. And theyve applied an exclusion in line with their underwriting criteria. Given 
everything, I dont think its unfair for them to do so.
 
Because of this, I wont be asking Red Sands to do anything further. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman