DRN-3890949
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 the Act.
Background 
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr L alleges that the supplier misled Mr L into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the documents 
from the time of sale (which Mr L signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel 
system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr L says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr L (through his representative) disagreed but did not make any additional comments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by supplier as an agent of Ikano.
Section 140 is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this 
case, the representative relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr L was provided with the sales documents and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system. Neither of 
these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And Mr L has 
signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, seen this 
comparison when he signed the document. 
I think the sales document likely reflects the discussions Mr L had with the supplier  and 
from this, I can see it was made clear that the total first year benefit Mr L would receive 
would be £304.49. But the purchase price was £7,575 which was to be paid using finance. It 
goes on to show that Mr L would be taking finance from Ikano in the form of a 120 months 
(i.e.  10-year) loan.
Bearing that in mind, I think its apparent that in order to repay £7,575 over 10 years, Mr L 
would need £757.50 annually to meet the loan payments (and this is without any interest or 
charges). But his estimated total first year benefit was only £304.49. 
Additionally, I can see Mr L went onto to sign the credit agreement on the same day showing 
his monthly payments were £83.33. This works out annually as £999.96. And as Ive said 
above, his estimated total first year benefit was only £304.49. 
The sales contract Ive described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year 
benefit Mr L would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not 
be immediately self-funding. As Mr L then went on to take out finance to fund the purchase 
of the solar panel system, he further increased his costs  as he agreed to pay not only the 
cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it was 
clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price of the 
solar panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by the 
system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which included 
interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he says he was told they would be.
If Mr L had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Ls 
understanding, at that time.
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ls testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140 of the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Ikano has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to the supplier in this case and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman