DRN-4247049
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr M had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr M a letter informing him that his credit card account would be 
closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr M complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they had 
acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or 
the hotel voucher. Mr M wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his compaint to 
our service. 
After Mr M brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint. They offered Mr M a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and 
the free night stay voucher. 
Mr M didnt accept the offer. He complained that Creation havent offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
Mr C also said he wasnt able to use his voucher when he booked a trip in 2022, to celebrate 
a relatives milestone birthday. So he lost out as he had to use cash instead to pay for his 
accomodation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. Our investigator thought that as well as offering to refund the annual fee, points and 
free night stay voucher, Creation should pay Mr M £80 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him by not being able to use his free night stay voucher when he went on holiday 
in 2022. 
Mr M accepted the view. Creation rejected the investigators recommendations. Creation 
said it had done enough to put things right and could withdraw the card benefits at any time. 
So it didnt accept it should pay Mr M any further compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ms account. I reviewed the terms and they explain that Creation can close an account for 
any reason by giving 60 days notice. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr M however, 
Creation have provided Mr M with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Ms points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr M of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to 
see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I understand that Creation has already 
reimbursed Mr M his points and voucher. But Mr M is still awaiting his annual fee refund. 
I note that Creation has agreed to pro-rata refund of his annual fee, but I will make an award 
in that sum, of £29.84, so that Mr M can enforce it should he need to do so. 
The investigator thought that Creation should also pay Mr M £80 compensation as Mr M 
wasnt able to use his free night voucher on holiday in 2022. Mr M has provided evidence to 
this service that he had made a trip in September 2022 which included booking 
accomodation. He wasnt able to sue his voucher which at the time would have been 
available to him and had to use cash to pay for his hotel stay. So Im satisfied that he lost out 
on the opportunity of using his voucher and was inconvenienced. Taking this into account, I 
agree with the investigator that Creation should pay Mr M compensation. Im satisfied that 
£80 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and 
upset Mr M was caused by not being able to use his free night voucher. 
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, Ill be directing Creation to refund the unused part of the 
annual fee, and credit his outstanding award club points to his account; pay Mr M a total of 
£80 compensation for the trouble and upset of not being able to use his free night voucher.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr M £29.84
Credit Mr Ms IHG account with his outstanding award club points
Pay Mr M a total of £80 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not being 
able to use his free night voucher 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman