DRN-4214004
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) handling of a 
claim for storm damage made under her buildings insurance policy.
Any references to Lloyds include its agents.
 
What happened
In November 2022, Miss W made a claim to Lloyds, saying her home had been damaged by 
storm conditions. Lloyds arranged for a surveyor to inspect Miss Ws home. There was 
internal damage to one of the bedrooms where the ceiling had collapsed, and there were 
elevated moisture readings on the walls and the flooring was damaged. 
The surveyor also set out there was damage to the roof of the property. They said rows of 
tiles had slipped forward which exposed the loft space. They later said the roof battens had 
collapsed below the tiles and this led to the movement. Lloyds also noted there were weeds 
in the gutter which they said restricted the flow of water to the downpipe. They said a later 
inspection of the pictures taken revealed a hole in the facia board which led to the roof 
battens collapsing. On balance, they considered the damage had occurred gradually over 
time and the claim was declined. Miss W complained to Lloyds, and it issued its final 
response saying the claim remained declined. It said storm conditions as defined by the 
policy hadnt occurred when the damage was noticed, and they considered the damage 
occurred over time. But Lloyds offered Miss W £150 compensation for its handling of her 
claim. 
Miss W asked us to look at what had happened. Our investigator said Lloyds should 
reconsider the claim for both the external and internal damage, as she felt it was reflective of 
a large quantity of water entering the property over a short period of time and more aligned 
to storm damage, rather than occurring gradually. She agreed the £150 compensation 
offered by Lloyds was sufficient. 
Miss W accepted our investigators opinion, but Lloyds didnt. It later agreed to reconsider 
only the internal damage, saying the roof had been poorly maintained so the claim for 
external damage remained declined. Our investigator put this offer to Miss W but she didnt 
accept and Lloyds later retracted the offer. So, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have made substantial submissions and Ive carefully considered everything both 
sides have said. My decision here focuses on what I consider to be the most relevant issues. 
When considering a claim for storm damage, we consider three key questions:
Was there storm condition weather?
Is the damage typical of what a storm can cause?
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
This policy defines what it considers to be storm conditions and Ive included the relevant 
extract from the policy below:
6. Storm
When we say storm we mean strong winds over 55mph, and/or hail or snow thats 
extreme enough to damage hard surfaces or break glass. Rain alone is not a storm.
Ive considered the weather reports provided for the time Miss W noticed the damage. Whilst 
the recorded wind speeds didnt quite reach 55mph, Im satisfied the wind speeds ahead of 
the damage being noticed were sufficient for me to conclude storm conditions had occurred.
In addition to this, I consider the damage Miss W is claiming for is typical of damage caused 
by storm conditions. Its not unusual for us to see claims for slipped roof tiles. Its also not 
unusual for us to see claims for water ingress after roof tiles have slipped.
Im satisfied the answer to the first two questions is yes. However, the bigger question here 
is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to Miss Ws home. I need to decide 
if Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly in relying on the gradually operating clause exclusion it 
has to decline Miss Ws claim.
Lloyds says storm conditions werent the main cause of damage to Miss Ws home. In brief, 
it says the roof was not well maintained, noting there was significant moss covering it. They 
also highlighted damage to an ariel which they believe happened several months before. 
Lloyds also said the guttering was blocked, causing water to damage to the facia board 
behind it. Theyve also said the roof battens were rotten and the felt was in poor condition 
and it was a combination of these things gradually deteriorating over time which caused the 
roof tiles to slip during the storm conditions. 
On the other hand, Miss W says there was one area of felt that was damaged in the loft 
space, but this was where the tiles had slipped. She said shed provided photographs to 
show the battens werent rotten and the surveyor sent by Lloyds had stood in her garden 
with her and told her that it was impossible to see the damage to the facia board or guttering 
from that point. 
Ill start by considering the external damage first. Ive reviewed the report from the surveyor 
instructed by Lloyds. He said the roof battens collapsed below the tiles and the reasoning 
given for the collapse is that theyve gradually deteriorated as a result of the water 
overflowing from the blocked guttering. But I havent seen any photographic evidence of 
these collapsed battens, and I would have expected the surveyor to have captured this 
during his inspection of the loft space, given this formed the main reason for declining     
Miss Ws claim. Its accepted the roof tiles slipped and I consider its plausible this slip could 
be responsible for the felt being ripped. Miss W argues the felt was in good condition 
throughout the rest of the loft and is only damaged where the tiles slipped. I cant see any 
photographic evidence to refute her claim. And I note the surveyor made the key finding the 
slipped tiles exposed the loft space so I think its accepted this led to water entering the loft 
during the storm conditions.
The surveyor noted damage to the facia board but according to his report, says this was 
identified later when the images were more closely inspected. The surveyor says overflowing 
water from the guttering flowed beneath the roof tiles and caused the roof battens to rot. Ive 
not been provided with any specific photographic evidence to support this conclusion about 
the roof battens, or that their collapse was the dominant reason for the tiles lifting. Miss W says when she stood with the surveyor in her garden and looked at the house, the 
damage to the facia board could not be seen. On review of the images, Im persuaded by 
her account of this, as the tiles had slipped and connected with the drainpipe and its hard to 
see the facia board behind this. Though I do note there does appeared to be some 
vegetation in the guttering shown in the photographs provided. 
The exclusion Lloyds is seeking to rely on to decline the claim says: we wont pay claims 
forDamage that happens slowly over time. But Im not persuaded Lloyds has sufficiently 
demonstrated the roof battens had rotted and these alone were the cause of the tiles 
slipping. If this was the case, I would have expected it to evidence this with photos to 
accompany the surveyors report. The roof battens would have likely shown some signs of 
being wet, given how much water entered the roof space, but I havent seen any evidence of 
rotten battens being the main cause of the roof tiles slipping. 
The circumstances of this case are finely balanced, but my role is to decide which parts of 
the evidence provided I find most persuasive. Here, I dont find Lloyds has sufficiently shown 
the damage occurred gradually and storm conditions were not the main cause of the 
damage to Miss Ws home. 
Lloyds suggested water had entered Miss Ws property slowly and says the moisture level 
readings on the wall support this. Miss W says it took several days for Lloyds to arrange for 
a surveyor to attend her property, so this accounts for why the walls were so wet. And that 
any damage Lloyds say was pre-existing to the walls was hidden by the wallpaper in place 
before the room experienced such damage. Im persuaded by this. Miss W has been 
consistent in her accounts of the steps she took when she found the damage and I think its 
more likely that she acted as soon as she became aware of the damage to her home.
With this in mind, I require Lloyds to reconsider the storm damage claim for the internal 
damage and review the invoices and paperwork relating to the external repairs that have 
already been carried out.
I can also see this has been a very worrying time for Miss W. Lloyds has acknowledged its 
handling of the claim fell below the standard expected and offered Miss W £150 in respect of 
this. Miss W didnt consider this payment went far enough to recognise the worry and 
distress this matter has caused her. I appreciate this has been a worrying time for Miss W, 
and she has only been able had the external repairs carried out. However, Im minded to 
conclude the compensation offered by Lloyds is sufficient to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider Miss Ws claim under the storm damage clause for the internal and 
external damage to her home.
Pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience experienced if this has not already been 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman