DRN-3135651
The complaint
Mr J complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Simpson Kelly Associates 
Ltd (SKA) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with a 
former employer to a Personal Pension (PP). 
Mr J is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr J approached SKA for advice on transferring one of his OPS to a PP. SKA 
completed a fact find and risk questionnaire. But, as SKA didnt have the necessary 
permission to advise Mr J on the transfer, it referred him to another firm  which Ill refer to 
as Firm B  who advised him to transfer his benefits in this OPS to a PP. After the transfer 
SKA took over the servicing of Mr Js PP and became the ongoing adviser in relation to it, 
which Mr J stopped in 2018.
In 2020, Mr J complained to SKA and Firm B via a representative about the suitability of the 
transfer of his OPS benefits. In summary, he said SKA was involved in giving the unsuitable 
advice, as it was working collaboratively with Firm B in the way it had done with several 
different customers. And that, as a result, its jointly responsible for his losses. 
SKA responded saying it isnt responsible for any advice Mr J was given, as Firm B provided 
it. SKA said it made it clear to Mr J that it didnt have permission to provide OPS transfer 
advice. And that its role was limited to that of an introducer, which involved gathering initial 
information before referring Mr J to Firm B. 
Unhappy with this, Mr J came to our Service raising complaints about both SKA and Firm B. 
He added, in summary, that SKA completed all the paperwork, he didnt have any contact 
with Firm B prior to the transfer and only received the suitability letter after this had been 
finalised. Mr J also said he had limited investment experience. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Js complaint against SKA. He said it was clear from 
the correspondence that Firm B was responsible for determining whether Mr J should 
transfer his OPS. And he said that the losses Mr Js suffered by transferring his OPS were 
attributable to its actions and omissions, rather than SKAs. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman.  
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Firm B is in liquidation, I cant consider Mr Js complaint about transfer advice he was 
given against it. And, having considered whether SKA should be held responsible for this 
advice and Mr Js resulting losses in some form, I dont think it should. Ill explain why. 
It isnt unusual for a firm that introduces a customer to another for advice to facilitate the 
transfer. I think SKA did that here by completing the fact find and attitude to risk 
questionnaire with Mr J, and that this will have involved some discussions with him about his 
retirement and a possible transfer. 
However, I can see that SKA explained to Mr J more than once in its communication with 
him that such transfers have to be referred to an independent pensions specialist it uses, 
and I think its likely it was referring to Firm B here. I can see Firm B sent Mr J a letter saying 
it would be responsible for giving him the advice and that SKA would assist with the 
documentation. And, while I havent seen the suitability report, the transfer documentation 
sent to Mr Js OPS, which he signed, says Firm B gave formal advice, rather than SKA. 
Its possible that SKA strayed into giving Mr J advice during his discussions with it, but Mr Js 
OPS required him to be given appropriate financial advice. And, considering SKA didnt have 
the right permissions to give that, this means the transfer couldnt have taken place based 
on any communication he had with it. It was only able to take place due to Firm Bs advice. 
As Firm B had the appropriate permissions and provided the formal recommendation to     
Mr J, it was responsible for giving him suitable advice and ensuring he understood this. And, 
while I appreciate Mr Js comments that several of the customers SKA referred to Firm B 
were advised to transfer from their OPS, I think SKA was entitled to rely on Firm B acting in 
accordance with the regulators (the Financial Conduct Authority - FCA) requirements. The 
FCA required Firm B to act in Mr Js best interests, provide him with suitable advice and treat 
him fairly. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold SKA responsible if Firm B didnt 
meet those requirements.
Firm B was also free to advise Mr J not to transfer and it shouldnt have recommended he do 
so if this wasnt suitable for him. If Firm B had advised Mr J against transferring then Im not 
persuaded he would have gone ahead anyway based on any discussions he had with SKA. 
Instead I think its likely he would have trusted Firm Bs expert advice. I say this because    
Mr J says he had limited investment experience. And because I think he was clearly made 
aware SKA didnt have permissions to advise him on this when Firm B did, as specialists in 
the field. I think this wouldve added credibility and weight to the advice given by Firm B, so         
I dont think Mr J wouldve acted against it. This means I think Firm B was responsible for 
giving advice that enabled the transfer and so if that advice was unsuitable, Mr Js losses 
flow from this.
In summary, Im satisfied it was Firm Bs actions, independently of SKAs, that ultimately 
caused Mr J to transfer. So, I dont think SKA is responsible for Mr Js alleged losses. For 
this reason, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman