DRN-3822016
The complaint
Miss G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
defaulted her loans.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss G had two loans from M&S. Loan A was originally for £10,000 and 
was taken out in July 2020. Monthly repayments were £179.06. Loan B was originally for 
£3,553.63 and was drawn in October 2021  the balance was transferred from Miss Gs 
current account after M&S decided to stop offering current accounts. Interest on Loan B was 
zero and monthly payments were £42.30. In December 2021, Miss G contacted M&S by 
letter and phone to advise them she was in financial difficulty  she had stopped work 
because of a serious medical condition. She offered to pay £5 per month on each loan.
In December 2021, M&S agreed to a 60-day hold on payments while Miss G took advice 
from a debt advice charity  which completed an income and expenditure form. This showed 
Miss G had monthly benefit income of £339 and outgoings of £219  but that excluded 
payments to creditors. Miss G had total debts of over £28,000. Miss G didnt have a phone 
by then and wrote several letters to M&S between December 2021 and April 2022  each 
one set out the nature of her illness and said she could only afford to pay £5 each month. 
On 11 March 2022, M&S agreed to accept payments of £5 to each loan account for a period 
of six months  to September 2022. On 16 March 2022, M&S sent Miss G Notices of Default 
on both loans. Loan As balance was £7,679.58 and the arrears were £696.24. Loan Bs 
balance was £3,449.02 and arrears were £149.20. On 13 April 2022, final demand was 
made on both loans after one payment of £5 had been made to each. Loan B was closed 
and a default registered in May 2022. On 13 June 2022, a further final demand was sent to 
Miss G on Loan A (balance £7,379.23, arrears £1,039.36). The loan was closed and a 
default registered in September 2022.
Miss G complained. She said she had agreed a payment plan with M&S for six months 
through to September 2022  and had made the payments. So  it couldnt be fair that she 
was sent Notices of Default, and then actual defaults on the loans. She had written to M&S 
several times about her situation and hadnt had replies to a number of her letters. She said 
M&S had admitted theyd made mistakes and a payment of compensation of £100 had been 
made  so she said M&S should remove the defaults from her credit file. She said that she 
couldnt afford a phone, and had told M&S about that, and so M&Ss reference in letters to 
making calls were distressing.
M&S apologised for not taking note that Miss G didnt have a phone, and for not replying to 
some of her letters. For that they paid compensation of £100. M&S said that they were sorry 
to hear of Miss Gs illness, but said that the contractual payments hadnt been made, and 
therefore a default would be applied to Miss Gs credit file. 
Miss G didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said that Miss G hadnt made the contractual payments. M&S acted sympathetically and in 
line with the FCAs guidance for treating customers in financial difficulty. He agreed that 
some of M&S communications were poor and agreed with the compensation paid. But he 
said that the defaults should remain.
Miss G asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  and so it has come to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say how sorry I was to learn of Miss Gs illnesses and the difficult time she has been 
through. In her recent correspondence with us, she said that tests and treatments are 
continuing and she still cannot work. But her benefits have increased and she feels able to 
make payments of £50 per month to each loan. We wish her well and hope she recovers 
fully and can eventually return to work.
My role here is to reach a balanced decision, based on evidence from both Miss G and 
M&S. 
In Miss Gs circumstances, businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial 
difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that firms like M&S 
should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a 
business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments, or defer them, and allow 
customers more time to repay their debt. The guidance is not prescriptive, and solutions can 
vary depending on a customers circumstances.
So, Ive considered what happened in the light of this guidance. In December 2021, Miss G 
spoke to M&S and I listened to the call. Miss G explained she couldnt work because of her 
illness and offered £5 per month. M&S agreed to a 60-day standstill on both loans, interest 
free, and recommended that Miss G contact debt advice firms for support and to help work 
out her finances. So  here, M&S did help Miss G. I also heard on the call that M&S said that 
the missed payments (arrears) would be notified to the credit reference agencies  which 
might affect her ability to get credit in the future. 
Miss G wrote to M&S in February 2022 and said she was still unable to work and offered £5 
per month again. M&S considered this and wrote to her on 11 March 2022 to set out that 
they accepted payments of £5 per month through until September 2022. 
Miss G took M&S agreement to this to mean that no more action would be taken. But its 
important to see the terms of M&S agreement as set out in the letter. It said : Theres no 
change to the terms of your agreement with us; As the payments youll be making are less 
than the monthly contractual amount, the arrears balance will increase As the payments 
you'll be making are not enough to cover the overdue amount, you may receive a Default 
Notice on your Credit card or Loan account and/or Pre Demand on your Current account 
when the overdue amount reaches a certain level. This notice will give you information about 
the amount you owe on your account, what you need to do to get the account back on track 
and by whenif you can't pay the overdue amount by the date shown on the letters 
mentioned above, we may: Share information about the default on your account with the 
following Credit Reference Agencies. This could make it more difficult for you to borrow in 
future." 
Therefore  I think its reasonable to say that M&S letter clearly said that arrears would 
continue to increase; and that a default notice would follow. It also said the credit reference 
agencies would be notified.And so here  M&S did support Miss G in her situation of being in financial difficulty  they 
agreed to reduced payments for six months and recommended that she speak to debt 
advice agencies.  No interest was being charged on loan B. M&S couldnt suspend interest 
on loan A as it had been front loaded onto the loan when it was set up. But overall, I think 
M&S fulfilled their obligations to treat Miss G fairly in her situation. 
Miss G says M&S should not have continued with default processes  but the FCAs 
guidance doesnt say that these should be suspended for customers in financial difficulty. 
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. And when Miss G 
was sent the notice of default in April 2022, I can see she was three months in arrears on 
both loans.  So, M&S were entitled to default the loans in line with the guidance. 
Miss G argues that M&S admitted that theyd made errors and therefore the defaults should 
be removed. But what M&S said was that theyd not replied to all her letters, nor removed 
her old mobile number from their records and for that, paid compensation of £100. But  that 
doesnt mean to say that M&S were wrong to default the loans.
In summary, M&S did set out the terms of the arrangement when they wrote to Miss G in 
March 2022  including that defaults would take place. And Im satisfied that they fulfilled 
their obligations to treat Miss G sympathetically because of her financial difficulty.
I know Miss G wont agree with me, and will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not 
going to ask M&S to do anymore here. In saying that, I do hope that Miss G can return to 
good health eventually, followed by a return to work. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman