DRN-3484326
The complaint
Mrs P complains that One Insurance Limited said her car was a total loss and about the 
settlement it offered her following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
One Insurance said the repair costs for Mrs Ps car compared to its market value made it 
uneconomical to repair. And so it offered Mrs P £2,100, less deductions, for its market value. 
Mrs P was unhappy that her car had been written off as she said it was in good condition. 
She was also unhappy with the settlement One Insurance offered her.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought One 
Insurance had reasonably decided that Mrs Ps car was beyond economical repair following 
an engineers assessment. But he thought it hadnt followed our approach in valuing Mrs Ps 
car. He thought it should increase its offer to £2,773.50 and also pay Mrs P interest on the 
difference between the original offer and this amount.
One Insurance replied that Mrs P had retained the cars salvage and it had paid her £800 in 
settlement of her claim. It said Mrs P had accepted this at the time. It calculated that Mrs P 
was due £336.75 because of the increased valuation. But it disagreed that it should pay this 
or add interest to this amount due to the cars pre-accident damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P was unhappy that her car was deemed to be a total loss. But I can see from the 
engineers report that the repair costs compared to the cars pre-incident value made it 
uneconomical to repair. So I cant say that it was wrong for One Insurance to decide this. 
Mrs P was also unhappy with the valuation of her car. One Insurance said that she accepted 
this at the time. But I can see that Mrs P raised her concerns when she received the initial 
valuation and when she brought her complaint to us. So I think I can reasonably consider 
this here. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. 
We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, 
engineers reports.
I can see that One Insurance looked for valuations in two guides. But I cant see in one of 
these that the details it entered were correct and so I cant reasonably rely on it. In the other 
guide, One Insurance didnt use the retail transacted valuation, as it should have done in 
keeping with our approach. So I cant say that the valuation it initially offered Mrs P (£2,100) 
was fair or reasonable. 
But our Investigator looked for valuations for Mrs Ps car in the same guides and found them 
to range between £2,725 and £2,822. I can see that he looked for cars of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Ps car at the date of the incident. Our approach 
when the guides offer a small range of values is to take an average. So I think £2,773.50, 
less any deductions, would be a fair and reasonable valuation of Mrs Ps car made in 
keeping with our approach. 
As One Insurances offer was less than this, I think it should reasonably increase its 
settlement to this amount, less any deductions. One Insurance calculated this to be £336.75, 
which I can see is half the difference between the initial valuation and what Mrs P should 
have received, taking into account a deduction for the increased salvage value. 
One Insurance said it had made deductions for the cars salvage and the policy excess. It 
also said that the car had pre-existing damage. But as it didnt apply a deduction for this at 
the time, I dont think it would be fair to do so more than two years after the claim was made.  
Mrs P has been without her money for some time. Our approach is that where there is a 
difference between the interim settlement and the final settlement, then the insurer should 
add interest to this amount. And so I think One Insurance should add interest to its further 
payment to Mrs P for the time she has been without her money.
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mrs P an additional £336.75 in settlement of her claim, adding interest to this 
amount at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of the initial settlement to the date of 
payment. 
2. HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from this interest. One 
Insurance must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require One Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman