DRN-4291767
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about a claim Mrs J made on their Fairmead Insurance Limited 
(Fairmead) legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr J made a claim for help with a costs order that had been obtained against her on her 
Fairmead legal expenses insurance policy.
After asking for information to validate whether there was a claim they could consider, 
Fairmead passed the matter to their panel firm. 
The panel firm concluded the claim had no reasonable prospects of success and it had been 
notified late which meant that Fairmead didnt have to cover it. Fairmead accepted there had 
been two instances of their not responding to Mrs J in accordance with their service 
standards, so they offered her £100 in compensation for this.
Mrs Js complaint is about the delays she says Fairmead caused which she feels impacted 
the merits of her claim and therefore her ability to challenge the costs order made against 
her.
Our investigator considered the matter but concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs J doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mrs Js claim stems from a dispute that predated her policy. Essentially, she made a claim 
against Royal Mail and a convenience shop in which a Post Office franchise was located 
about some items shed posted that went missing. My understanding is that the items were 
valuable. Mrs J obtained judgment in default against both those parties but sometime later, 
the two defendants applied to set aside the order against them.
A hearing took place in which the orders for judgment were set aside and Mrs J was ordered 
to pay costs. She was given a specific period in which to do this.
It was after the order for costs was obtained against Mrs J that she approached Fairmead for 
help. Her complaint is that Fairmead took too long to deal with things and that this affected 
the merits of her being able to challenge the order for costs. She also says she was told at 
some point early on by the panel firm that her claim did have good prospects of success.
Ive considered everything both parties have provided but Im not persuaded Fairmeads 
conduct had anything to do with Mrs J losing the opportunity to challenge the costs order. I 
say so because based on everything Ive seen, there were no significant delays in their 
conducting a review of her claim to establish whether it should be covered or allocating it to 
a panel firm for advice on the merits of it. And given the advice received was that the claim 
had no reasonable prospects of success and was made too late, this wouldnt have been a 
claim that would have been covered had Fairmead done anything any quicker. So, Mrs J 
wouldnt have had the benefit of assistance sooner to deal with the costs order. Nor have I 
seen anything that suggests she would have gone elsewhere to challenge the costs order 
and been successful if shed received advice from Fairmeads panel firm earlier. 
Fairmeads obligation under the policy was to consider whether the claim was covered. I 
think it did that. It obtained the advice of a firm of Solicitors confirming the position on the 
merits of the claim and an assessment of whether it fell within policy terms. Both meant the 
claim wasnt covered. Thats because the claim didnt have over 51% prospects of success. 
In addition, it wasnt reported within a reasonable time of the event and Fairmeads position 
had been prejudiced by this. Both of these were policy requirements. 
For clarity, Im satisfied that in this case, Fairmeads position was prejudiced. If things had 
gone as they should have, Mrs J should have reported the initial claim before she pursued 
things at Court- and not when an application to set the judgment aside came or when that 
application was successful and an order for costs was made against her. Her failure to do 
meant that Fairmead wasnt able to consider the merits of the claim from the outset, and if 
satisfied that it would have been covered, control the costs and direction of the proceedings. 
In the absence of that happening, I cant say Fairmead were wrong to have taken the 
position they did. That having been said, even if Mrs J had reported the claim before she 
made it, its possible she might not have had cover in place. The policy Ive seen doesnt 
extend to that date, but she may have had another policy with Fairmead or another legal 
expenses insurer at that time that would have covered the claim- at least in principle.
Mrs J says the panel firm initially told her a claim to set aside the costs order might have 
merit and that Fairmeads delay in dealing with it prejudiced this. I havent seen anything at 
all that supports this. Its right that the panel firm might have had an initial call with Mrs J 
about her claim and discussed it without reviewing everything, but their ultimate view was 
that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. And Mrs J hasnt supplied 
anything, like a copy of an early opinion supporting that the claim would have had merit, if it 
was challenged quickly from either the panel firm or an alternative Solicitor. So, Im not 
persuaded by this argument.
I appreciate that Mrs J might well be unhappy with the panel firms conduct but thats not 
something I can determine. They are an independent firm of Solicitors with their own codes 
of conduct and regulator. If Mrs J remains unhappy, she should raise a complaint with them 
directly or The Legal Ombudsman.
Finally, I know Fairmead have offered Mrs J £100 in recognition of the fact that they didnt 
reply to her on two occasions within their 5 day service standards. I think thats reasonable in 
the circumstances of her claim. If Mrs J hasnt already done so, she can contact Fairmead 
directly to accept this amount, should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Fairmead 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman