DRN-3674750
The complaint
Miss W says Salary Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss Ws complaint is about a loan provided by SFL. The loan was in the sum of £20,000 for 
a term of 60 months repayable at £508.69 per month.
Miss W complains SFL irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ws complaint and thought SFL hadnt made a fair lending 
decision based on the results of checks it carried out.
SFL didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website.
SFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the length of the agreement, the frequency and amount of repayments, the total 
amount repayable and what SFL knew about Miss W at the time she applied for the loan.
I can see that SFL obtained information about Miss Ws income and expenditure and her 
credit commitments. SFL used this information to calculate Miss Ws disposable income and 
made an assessment of whether the loan was affordable.
The adjudicator thought that the checks carried out by SFL were reasonable and 
proportionate but found that the decision to lend was unfair. I agree with the adjudicator that 
the checks were reasonable and proportionate. So, Ive focussed on whether the decision to 
lend was fair, based on the information SFL had obtained. 
The credit checks carried out by SFL showed that Miss W was already paying over £500 per 
month towards consumer credit commitments. The figure represents minimum repayments 
rather than a reduction of the overall debt.
The stated purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. However, theres no information 
about which debts Miss W intended to consolidate. So it isnt clear which debts would be 
consolidated and /or what the impact would be on Miss Ws overall financial position.
Taking this information into account, its clear that Miss Ws consumer credit commitments, 
including the new loan, represented a significant proportion of her net monthly income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Miss W could afford to repay what she was being lent 
in a  sustainable manner. I think that in order to meet her commitments its likely that she 
would need to borrow again. In all the circumstances, I dont think the loan was affordable 
and I dont think the decision to lend was fair.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct the business to 
put the consumer back in the position they would be in had the mistake not happened, as far 
as reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Miss W in the position she would be now if she hadnt 
been given the loan. However, Miss W was given the loan and shes used the money and 
made repayments.
In this case, I think its fair that Miss W should only have to repay the money shes borrowed 
and had use of. So I think SFL should refund all interest and charges that Miss W has paid 
on the loan. I also think that SFL should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss 
Ws credit file in relation to the loan, so that Miss W isnt adversely affected by SFLs 
decision to lend to her irresponsibly.
My final decision
To settle this complaint, Salary Finance Limited must:
1.Add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of the loan. The 
repayments made by Miss W should be deducted from this amount.
(a)if this results in Miss W having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement. *
(b)if any capital balance remains outstanding, SFL must  agree an affordable payment plan 
with Miss W
2.Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
*HMRC require SFL to take off tax from the refund of interest. SFL must give Miss W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman