DRN-2771627
Complaint
Mrs G has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with unaffordable 
guarantor loans.
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mrs G with a loan for £6,000.00 in February 2015 and a second loan for 
£6,500.00 in November 2016. Loan 1 was repaid with some of the proceeds from loan 2. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans hadnt carried 
out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not 
have shown TFS Loans Mrs G wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. TFS Loans 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Gs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Gs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs G would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make fair lending decisions?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs G wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
TFS Loans provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required TFS Loans to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs Gs ability to make the repayments 
under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs G. In 
practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs G. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of 
Mrs G, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans says that Mrs G completed an income and expenditure assessment. It then ran a 
number of automatic checks against the details Mrs G provided. These checks included 
carrying out a credit check to get an idea of her existing credit commitments. 
For loan 1, Mrs Gs monthly income was worked out at being around £1,800.00. Mrs G was 
also recorded as having monthly expenditure of £1.280.94. For loan 2, Mrs Gs monthly 
income was worked out at being around £1,900.00. Mrs G was also recorded as having 
monthly expenditure of around £1.500.00. As both of those expenditure figures included the 
payments for the TFS Loans, it says Mrs G had sufficient funds to be able to comfortably 
make the payments to both loans.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said but I have significant concerns about 
the rigour it applied to its affordability assessment.To explain, the credit check TFS Loans carried out for loan 1 showed that Mrs G had 
defaulted on previous credit commitments. TFS says Mrs G explained that this was due to 
historic issues. But she also had commitments to payday and other high cost lenders at the 
time of this application. And for loan 2 Mrs G still had similar outstanding commitments even 
though she was supposedly using the proceeds from loan 1 to settle her commitments with 
such lenders. TFS Loans even found out that Mrs G had a debt management plan which she 
denied having too.
Im also mindful that TFS was aware Mrs G had a guarantor loan with another provider. TFS 
says Mrs G was going to use some of the funds from loan 1 to partially settle the loan with 
the other provider. But I have to question whether it was reasonable to believe this given any 
savings, if any at all, would be marginal at best seeing how recently that loan had been 
taken out, it was for a larger amount, its similar interest rate and the need to pay interest 
when settling the loan early as well as Mrs G taking loan one over an extended term. So I 
think that there were a number of warning signs in data TFS gathered as it simply didnt add 
up.   
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that it would have been reasonable and proportionate for 
TFS Loans to have taken further steps to verify Mrs Gs income and expenditure. As I cant 
see that TFS Loans did take steps to verify Mrs Hs income and expenditure and instead 
chose to rely on, what appears to be over optimistic calculations of her monthly disposable 
income bearing in mind the other available information, I dont think that its checks before 
providing Mrs G with these loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Mrs G would 
have been unable to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mrs G 
wouldve been unable to sustainably repay these loans. 
Mrs G has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mrs G has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, at the respective times, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate 
to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mrs Gs financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been.
TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mrs G could sustainably make her loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs G has provided in light of all of this. The information Ive been provided with shows that Mrs Gs income was less than what 
shed declared to TFS Loans. The information also shows that Mrs G was gambling 
significant sums of money and had taken loans with a number of different high-cost and 
short-term lenders in the period concerned, as well as being heavily overdrawn. So, in my 
view, the information provided clearly shows that Mrs G was in a cycle of unsustainable 
debt. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs G would not have been able to make the 
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have alerted TFS Loans to the fact that it shouldnt have provided 
these loans to Mrs G. 
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in 
some other way.  
So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other 
way.  
Did Mrs G lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Mrs G has paid interest and charges on loans that she shouldnt have been provided 
with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS Loans did wrong. 
So I think that TFS Loans needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs G
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of cash funds Mrs G received for loans 1 and 2 (in other 
words, the £6,000.00 advanced for loan 1 should be added to the new money given 
to Mrs G for loan 2 after TFS Loans deducted the amount to settle loan 1). The 
payments Mrs G made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. TFS 
Loans should treat any payments made should the new starting balance be cleared 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs G;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs G to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind TFS Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on 
an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the 
account, and its the case that Mrs G is experiencing financial difficulty.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mrs G in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman