DRN-2742517
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) made it difficult for him 
to cancel the renewal of a motor insurance policy. Mr G is also unhappy with Hastings data 
protection measures.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why below:
Any issues relating to data protection would be best dealt with by the relevant 
regulator - the Information Commissioners Office, rather than our service. That said, 
our service can still consider whether Mr G has lost out overall as a result of Hastings 
actions when handling the renewal. I will return to this point later in my decision.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont agree with Mr G that Hastings put in place barriers 
or blocks to make it more difficult for him to cancel his policy renewal. I say this 
because I can see Hastings let Mr G know on 19 May 2020 via email and also by 
post that his policy would be auto renewing on 17 June 2020 unless he called them 
to let them know. The letter stated: 
We're here to help
If you don't want to automatically renew your policy, or you'd like to discuss or 
change any details please contact us on [number redacted].
This was also in line with the policy terms. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr G was 
made aware of what was happening and what the consequence would be (the policy 
would renew) if he didnt call Hastings. 
Its very common across the insurance sector generally for insurers to speak to 
customers at renewal. This can result in customers being offered a better deal on 
their renewal. Its also an opportunity to identify if anything about their circumstances 
has changed during the preceding year that means their insurance needs are 
different. So I dont think Hastings did anything unusual or unfair when asking to 
speak to Mr G on the phone if he was considering cancelling his renewal.
Mr G has referred to long queue times when wanting to speak to Hastings on the 
phone. The only record of a call in June 2020 - although I accept that Mr G couldve 
called from a different number, shows that Mr G called Hastings and ended the call 
himself having been on hold for around three minutes. 
These events occurred around June 2020, at a time when customers and businesses 
were adapting to the changes and challenges the COVID-19 pandemic presented. 
Many businesses had their entire workforce working remotely and its understandable 
that waiting times may have been longer than both customers and businesses 
wouldve liked. But, given everything that was going on, I dont consider a three-
minute wait excessive here.
Ive also looked into Mr Gs point about Hastings not accepting his renewal 
cancelation by email initially. Whilst I acknowledge what Mr G has said about feeling 
that this made things more difficult for him, I dont agree that Hastings made things 
unreasonably difficult for him or that he was treated differently to any other customer 
seeking to cancel an insurance renewal. Businesses have their own processes in 
place around policy renewals and thats not something Id seek to interfere with  
providing theyve treated the customer fairly and reasonably when using that 
process. 
In this case, Hastings then offered to deviate from their normal process and complete 
the renewal cancelation by email. I consider that Hastings acted positively by offering   
Mr G the option of completing the renewal cancellation by email. However Mr G 
didnt trust their email process and wasnt willing to complete data protection.
I dont find that Hastings have treated Mr G unfairly here as it was his own decision 
not to engage with the email cancellation process because of his data protection 
concerns. 
Mr G has also referred to the renewal process and wanting Hastings to implement a 
change to their website to make this easier. As outlined, its not within my remit to 
direct a business to change one of their processes or to change the technology they 
use to communicate with customers. If Mr G doesnt wish for the policy to auto-renew 
this year, he should speak to Hastings beforehand.
Its also important to note here that although Mr G says Hastings put in place barriers 
to cancelling the renewal, Hastings has a responsibility to be reasonably satisfied the 
person requesting the cancelation of the renewal was Mr G - and not someone 
impersonating him. Perhaps Hastings couldve arranged to call Mr G to avoid any 
queuing time, but Im satisfied that overall the steps they took were in my opinion, 
fair, reasonable and proportionate.
In this specific case, I dont find that Hastings did anything wrong by renewing the 
policy
Mr G has said hes lost out on a cheaper policy elsewhere because of Hastings 
actions. Whilst I havent found that Hastings have done anything wrong here, theres 
also no evidence that Mr G had arranged an alternative policy to commence when 
the Hastings policy had ended. Additionally, when Mr G expressed dissatisfaction at 
the renewal, Hastings offered him the opportunity to cancel this policy and the relevant cancelation fee. I consider this a fair and positive offer. Mr G declined this 
offer as he said the cancelation is an inconvenience. It will disrupt my vehicle 
paperwork cadence.
Ultimately - in summary, to cancel the renewal Hastings needed to either speak to Mr G on 
the phone or complete data protection by email, but Mr G chose not to and the policy 
renewed as outlined in the renewal invitation and policy terms. 
Although our service isnt best placed to look into data protection issues specifically, overall 
Im satisfied that Hastings havent treated Mr G unfairly here or that hes lost out because of 
their actions and I dont require them to compensate Mr G. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Hastings  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman