DRN-3356016
The complaint
Mr M complains in his capacity as director of A, a limited company, about AXA Insurance 
UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for loss of rent following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on behalf of A, when his tenant reported a leak at the property, causing 
considerable water damage. Contractors visited the property and reported that parts would 
need to be ordered and fitted.
Some further water damage occurred in the building and another contractor visited. After 
three weeks the replacement parts arrived. The first contractor returned and fitted the 
replacement parts. At some point during the visits, the water supply was switched off by one 
of the contractors and the tenant had to vacate.
AXA considered the claim, but declined to pay for loss of rent for the period the property was 
unoccupied. It said As policy didnt cover it for loss of rent in these circumstances, where the 
property was only uninhabitable because the water had been switched off  not due to the 
water damage itself.
Mr M was unhappy about AXAs decision and made a complaint. AXA considered the 
complaint but said that it maintained its position regarding the loss of rent claim. It said a 
temporary repair couldve been carried out so the tenant couldve remained at the property, 
but instead of this, one of the contractors switched the water off. It reiterated that the rental 
losses werent payable in the circumstances, as the reason the property was uninhabitable 
was due to the water supply being switched off when this hadnt been necessary.
As Mr M didnt agree with AXAs response, he referred As complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the issues and recommended AXA pay the loss of rent claim. She 
said she was satisfied the water supply had to be turned off because the first contractor 
couldnt offer a temporary fix. And that it wasnt fair to penalise Mr M for the failure of the 
contractor to carry out temporary repairs and switch the water off instead.
AXA didnt agree with our investigators recommendations and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommendations and Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy terms. These say loss of rental income is covered while the property 
is unfit to live in, as a result of damage covered by the policy.
Neither party disputes that there was damage to the property as a result of the leak, which 
was covered under the policy terms. The issue the parties do not agree on is whether the 
property was unfit to live in, as a result of that damage. Mr M says it was uninhabitable due 
to the leak, because there was no other option for the contractors who attended, than to turn 
off the water supply  and as the property had no water for three weeks, this made it unfit for 
the tenant to live in. AXA however, says there was no need for the water supply to be 
switched off, and that a temporary repair couldve been carried out, allowing the tenant to 
remain at the property while the contractors waited for parts to arrive.
Theres conflicting information available about which contractor switched off the water 
supply. But I dont think it matters who turned the water off or when this happened. The key 
consideration for me is whether enough was done to mitigate the loss. And Im satisfied that 
the actions taken by the contractors were reasonable in the circumstances.
AXA has maintained that a temporary repair shouldve been offered by the first contractor 
who attended. But the evidence that the first contractor has provided persuades me that this 
wasnt a viable option. Theyve said All our engineers are instructed to isolate any hot water 
cylinder if the issue cannot be fixed then and there. Engineers unfortunately do not carry any 
spare parts for hot water cylinders; therefore, they would have isolated and placed an order, 
which is the case here.
Im satisfied from this information that the first contractor couldnt have carried out a 
temporary repair. AXA also says the second contractor could have done a temporary fix, but 
chose not to because the property had already been vacated. The second contractor has 
said it couldve carried out the repair if asked however as no one was living at the property 
we isolated the water to prevent it from happening again in the future.
While I dont doubt what either of the contractors have said, I do think the first contractors 
actions were reasonable. And Ive considered whether any further steps couldve been taken 
by Mr M, once he became aware of the damage, to mitigate his losses. Neither party has 
been able to point to anything more Mr M couldve done.
In the circumstances therefore, I dont think it would be fair to effectively penalise Mr M for 
the actions of the contractors. And I dont think he wouldve known that a temporary repair 
was an option. The first contractor has provided a reasonable explanation as to why a 
temporary repair wasnt carried out. And the second contractor has also provided a 
reasonable, albeit different, explanation for why it didnt complete a temporary repair at the 
time. Ive thought carefully about what AXA has said about the fact that the second 
contractor confirmed a temporary fix wouldve been possible. But this still doesnt persuade 
me that the first contractor couldve done a repair there and then. Its told us clearly that this 
wouldnt have been possible at the time for its engineers, and its engineers are instructed to 
switch off the supply in those circumstances instead. Because of this, the property wasnt fit 
to live in and the tenant had to vacate. I consider this to be a direct result of the leak, rather 
than due to the supply being turned off unnecessarily, as AXA has said.
So, because Im satisfied the property was uninhabitable as a result of the damage, and 
because Mr M couldnt have been reasonably aware that another option was available, loss 
of rent should be covered in this case.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA Insurance UK Plc is required to pay As loss of rent claim in 
line with the policy terms.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman