DRN-2365306
The complaint
Mr D has complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs P that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has 
refused to cover in full a claim under their home insurance policy for damage after a water 
leak.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs P made a claim to UKI after a water leak from their loft caused 
damage to their property. In particular their bathroom ceiling had collapsed and damaged a 
shower cubicle.
UKI accepted the claim and settled it on the basis of a quote provided by Mr and Mrs P for 
the repairs.
Mr and Mrs P say that when repairs started in February it became clear that there was 
further damage to the wall and joists below the bathroom area. They thought that had been 
caused by the same water leak that theyd claimed for. They sent UKI a quote for £8,580 to 
repair this damage.
UKI sent someone to assess this damage. The assessor agreed that the joists were rotten. 
But she didnt think theyd have become so severely damaged by a leak that had only been 
going on for a few weeks at most. UKI did accept that the cost of some plastering and 
redecoration had been omitted from its settlement and it offered an additional £2,026 in 
respect of this.
Mr D complained to UKI but it didnt change its decision. The complaint was brought to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he was satisfied the further damage theyd 
claimed for wasnt linked to the initial water leak. As Mr D on behalf of Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only specific, defined insured 
events set out in the policy will be covered. The onus is on the policyholder to show that an 
insured event most likely caused the damage. In this case the insured event is a water leak 
and the dispute is over further damage discovered to Mr and Mrs Ps wall and joists. Prior to 
the damage being discovered UKIs supplier had certified the property as dry enough for 
repairs to start without any additional drying being needed.
Mr D says the load-bearing bathroom wall was floating without support and was only 
attached to one side of the property. He says the water leak caused the mortar and render of 
the bathroom wall to deteriorate. Mr and Mrs Ps builder recommended that the wall should 
be supported and the wall-bearing joist replaced. Mr and Mrs P provided a report which 
referred to water having been leaking for over two weeks.
Whilst a sudden escape of water is distressing, and sometimes quite dramatic, if attended to 
within a few days or even two weeks it doesnt normally cause the kind of damage reported 
here. In particular a non-gradual incident is unlikely in my opinion to have caused mortar and 
render to deteriorate to such an extent that the property has become structurally unsafe 
while the rest of the property was relatively dry. UKI has also shown that the damp readings 
for the bathroom wall at ceiling level were much lower than the readings taken at ground 
level whereas the opposite would be expected after a water leak from above. Ive also seen 
a photo of a large patch of black mould on a wall in the hallway. Again I wouldnt have 
expected that to develop so quickly. Overall this suggests to me that there was an ongoing 
problem in a different part of the property causing gradual damage over a period of time.
On a balance of probabilities, I dont think Mr and Mrs P have shown its likely an insured 
event under their policy has caused the additional damage. So I dont think UKI has been 
unfair or unreasonable when it turned down this part of their claim because Mr and Mrs P 
havent shown that a defined insured event set out in their policy most likely caused the 
additional damage. To be clear  if there was evidence of, for example, another leak which 
was hidden and causing damage which Mr and Mrs P couldnt reasonably have known 
about, then UKI would probably need to consider the damage  but that hasnt been shown 
to be the case here.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman