DRN-4142449
The complaint
Miss D complains that Euroins AD hasnt accepted the evidence she submitted in support of 
her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss D bought a single trip travel insurance to cover a trip between 5 and 26 August 2022. 
The policy covered her and her two children, and the insurer was Euroins.
Miss D travelled abroad as planned with her children. They were due to fly back on 
26 August 2022 with a 6am flight. But on the way to the airport, the taxi broke down and they 
missed the return flight. Miss D booked new return flights back for 1 September 2022.
Miss D made a claim to Euroins for the cost of the additional flights. However, Euroins 
declined Miss Ds claim. It said that Miss D hadnt provided evidence that the taxi broke 
down on the date she says it did, and that the receipt she had provided makes no reference 
to a breakdown. Euroins also said that the receipt was dated the same day as Miss Ds 
return flight.
Miss D explained that she had taken the taxi to the airport around 2am on 26 August 2022 to 
make the flight at 6am. And the receipt from the garage showed the taxi was fixed around 
10am. Miss D also said that if you translated the words on the receipt, these translated into 
change and gearbox. So, Miss D said shed provided the evidence Euroins had asked for.
Euroins has not responded to our requests for information on this complaint. So, one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened, and she based her findings on the information 
that Miss D had provided.
Our investigator was persuaded by Miss Ds explanation of what had happened, and she 
thought the receipt from the garage supported the timeline. Our investigator thought it was 
more likely than not that the taxi was repaired around 10am after Miss D missed her 6am 
scheduled flight earlier the same day. She also thought it was more likely than not that the 
receipt showed there had been a breakdown, as the words could be translated to mean 
change of gearbox as Miss D had explained. 
Overall, our investigator thought Euroins should pay Miss Ds claim with 8% simple interest, 
as well as £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused due to the delay on the claim.
Miss D accepted our investigators findings, but Euroins didnt respond. As no agreement 
was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I asked Miss D if she had further evidence from the garage in support of the receipt, as it 
appeared that there could be different interpretations of the words in the receipt (change of 
gearbox or currency exchange). Miss D provided a letter from the garage confirming the 
receipt was issued by them, and that the gearbox of the car was fixed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Euroins declined Miss Ds claim due to lack of evidence of a breakdown before her flight, 
this is what Ive considered in my decision. And having considered everything, Im 
persuaded by Miss Ds version of events. Im persuaded that she took a taxi to the airport 
around 2am on 26 August 2022, and that the taxi broke down which meant that she missed 
her return flight. I think this is supported by the receipt from the garage around 10am the 
same day. I think its more likely than not that the taxi driver would have taken the car to be 
repaired on the same day. 
Whilst it appears the words on the receipt could have different meanings, Im now persuaded 
by the further report from the garage confirming the gearbox of the car was fixed. And I think 
that having to change a gearbox at a garage is likely to mean there was a breakdown.
Overall, Im persuaded that Miss D has provided the evidence Euroins has asked for, and it 
should now reassess her claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy.
I also think Euroins has caused Miss D unnecessary distress and inconvenience when it 
didnt handle the claim as well as it should have. The investigator recommended Euroins 
should pay her £100 in compensation and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint. I direct Euroins AD to accept there was 
a breakdown and reassess Miss Ds claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy. 
I also direct it to pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman