DRN-2282654
The complaint
Miss B says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says that LAH failed to carry out effective affordability assessments. This led to her 
taking loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home collected loans LAH provided to Miss B between 
July 2019 and February 2020. Some of the information provided to me is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 10/07/2019 £300 33 05/02/2020
2 05/02/2020 £750 46 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought that loan 2 shouldnt have been 
given. LAH agreed with our adjudicator and made an offer to settle the complaint on this 
basis. 
Miss B disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Miss B could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
LAH accepted our adjudicators opinion about loan 2. Because of this I dont think there is 
any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about it. But I 
have included this loan in my putting things right section below. 
For loan 1 Miss B needed to repay £15 for 33 weeks. Ive seen a record of the information 
Miss B provided when she completed her loan application. Miss B said she had a weekly 
income of £290 and she had regular weekly outgoings of £230. This left her with a weekly 
disposable income of £60. So it would have been reasonable for LAH to think that this loan 
was affordable for her.
I havent seen any further information that shows that LAH was made aware of any financial 
problems Miss B was having.  In particular, the credit reference agency data that it obtained 
doesnt show any significant adverse information. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Miss B circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for LAH to rely on the 
information it obtained for loan 1.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments LAH did were proportionate for loan 
1. So I think LAHs decision to approve this loan was reasonable and Im not upholding Miss 
Bs complaint about it. 
Ive considered the points Miss B made in response to the adjudicators opinion. Whilst she 
made it clear that she didnt agree and outlined some of the problems she is now facing, 
Miss B didnt really say why the adjudicator was wrong to not uphold loan 1. So, what shes 
said hasnt changed my opinion about this loan.
I can see that Miss B is facing what looks to be some significant difficulties at present. With 
this in mind, I hope my decision doesnt cause her any further distress. And I would remind 
LAH of its responsibility to treat Miss B fairly in respect of the amounts she may owe on loan 
2 after the compensation is calculated. 
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Miss B loan 2.
If LAH has sold the outstanding debt LAH should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss B having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. LAH shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal LAH has already written-off.
E) LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to 
loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted, if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman