DRN-3557187
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) refused their 
request to port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage when 
they decided to purchase another property. They had to repay the mortgage to Halifax, 
incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) of more than £10,000. To settle the complaint, 
they want Halifax to offer them a mortgage on a new residential property and reimburse any 
surplus ERC.
Mr B has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 14 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Ms B and Mr B being identified.
In 2016 Ms B and Mr B took out a mortgage with Halifax. They transferred to a new interest 
rate product in 2018, and again in March 2021, when they took out a new five-year fixed rate 
product. The 2021 product switch was done on the advice of Ms B and Mr Bs own 
independent financial adviser.
The offer shows that if the mortgage was repaid in full or in part before 30 April 2026 an ERC 
would be payable, on a tapering scale, so 5% in year one, 4% in year two, etc. However, the 
interest rate product can be transferred to a new property, and the offer shows that this is 
subject to a new application and meeting lending criteria.
The mortgage offer also states that it is a condition of the mortgage that the borrowers reside 
in the UK and that if this condition is broken, Halifax might not allow product transfers or 
additional borrowing  and may even ask for the full mortgage to be repaid.
Mr B has told us that a few months later he decided to sell the property, as he was going to 
be moving overseas. Ms B and their children would be remaining in the UK, so they were 
looking to buy another property, downsize and transfer the mortgage onto the new property.
Mr B clarified with Halifax that he had a three-month window from selling his previous 
property to port the mortgage product onto a new property. He and Ms B sold the property 
on 1 September 2021, paying an ERC of just over £10,000. If they were to complete on a 
new mortgage with Halifax and port the interest rate product within that period, the ERC 
would be refunded  either in whole if the borrowing was the same as the previous 
mortgage, or in part if they were borrowing less.
After finding a new property, Mr B had a meeting with Halifax, conducted by videolink, as he 
was now living abroad. During that meeting Mr B was told that he wouldnt be eligible for a 
new mortgage with Halifax because he was no longer being paid in sterling, which was a 
requirement to meet Halifaxs lending criteria.
Mr B complained. He said hed told Halifax numerous times that he was due to be working 
abroad and, although he accepts Halifax didnt ask which currency hed be paid in, he 
thought Halifax ought to have known this might be an issue. He said that if hed been told he 
wouldnt qualify for a new Halifax mortgage, he wouldnt have gone ahead with selling his 
previous property.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms B and Mr B brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint and thought that 
Halifax should have allowed the mortgage to be ported, applying Mortgage Market Review 
rules that had been introduced about porting mortgages. He asked Halifax to offer 
Ms B and Mr B a partial refund of the ERC (as they had borrowed less to purchase their new 
property), plus interest at 8% simple per annum.
Halifax didnt agree with the investigators findings. The bank explained that there were other 
rules the investigator hadnt considered, relating to customers who were paid in a different 
currency from sterling. The Lloyds Banking Group  of which Halifax is a part  had taken a 
business decision not to accept mortgage applications where the source of the repayments 
would be derived from foreign income. As a result, Halifax wasnt able to offer a mortgage to 
Ms B and Mr B.
A different investigator looked at the complaint. This time she didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator noted that Mr B had said hed told Halifax multiple times 
before he went ahead with his new purchase that hed be working abroad. But after 
reviewing all the telephone call recordings, she wasnt able to identify any call where Mr B 
told Halifax this. The first time Halifax became aware of this was during the videolink call. 
Given this, the investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr B was very unhappy with the change in outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. He thinks its unfair that a different investigator reached a different outcome.
Mr B says that Halifax hasnt provided all the call recordings and that there are many where 
he discussed with Halifax that hed be working abroad and was assured that porting the 
mortgage wouldnt be a problem. Mr B says that he didnt really want to sell the property, but 
his wife said that, if a port of the mortgage was possible, then they could sell and downsize 
and buy a new property. He said he would never have sold the property if hed known he 
couldnt port the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B says he told Halifax, before he and Ms B sold their 
property and incurred the ERC, that he was moving abroad and that he would therefore be 
paid in foreign currency. Consequently, Mr B says Halifax should have told him that, in those 
circumstances, he wouldnt be able to port the mortgage onto another property. Mr B says that if hed known this, he and Ms B would not have sold the property and so wouldnt have 
incurred the ERC.
Halifax, and its parent company, the Lloyds Banking Group, are entitled to set their own 
lending criteria. There are regulations in place set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
which govern porting applications  particularly in relation to assessment of affordability or 
repayment strategies (in the case of interest-only mortgages) for customers who might not 
qualify for a new mortgage. Where an existing customer asks to port the same or a lower 
amount, their circumstances havent changed and the property is suitable, then porting is 
usually allowed. If those were the only regulations that applied, then Halifax has confirmed 
that a port of the mortgage would not have been an issue  and I agree.
However, there are also other regulations introduced in 2016 as a result of the Mortgage 
Credit Directive that relate to borrowers who are paid in foreign currency. In advance of the 
regulations coming into effect on 21 March 2016, the Lloyds Banking Group  of which 
Halifax is a part  decided to cease lending to borrowers paid in foreign currency from 
28 September 2015. This was a decision the bank was entitled to make, in order to reduce 
its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency that could affect affordability of 
mortgages on UK properties.
I understand Mr B has suggested that at the time he and Ms B took out the original mortgage 
he was working abroad. However, the mortgage was arranged by an intermediary, so I dont 
know what information was provided at the time about Mr Bs source of income, as checking 
this would have been something for which the intermediary was responsible. The mortgage 
offer shows that Ms B and Mr B were both resident in the UK and were purchasing a 
property to be their main residence with the aid of the Halifax mortgage.
I note that the product switch in 2021 to the five-year interest rate was taken out after 
Ms B and Mr B had taken advice from their own financial adviser. It wasnt Halifaxs role to 
advise Ms B and Mr B about the implications of the product switch. So by the time the 
request to port was made, Ms B and Mr B were already tied into the product.
I dont know if in February 2021 (when the illustration was issued) Mr B had already decided 
to move abroad and, if so, whether he told his adviser about this. If he had told the adviser 
he was moving abroad, it would have been the responsibility of the adviser to explain to Mr B 
the implications of this for the new mortgage product he and Ms B were about to take out, 
particularly if the adviser had also been told that a sale of the property was planned, with a 
potential port of the mortgage. 
Halifaxs intermediaries website  which the adviser would have referred to  has a specific 
section about applicants not paid in sterling. This says: Foreign currency income will not be 
accepted for new mortgage or remortgage applications for new and existing customers, 
including porting
If Mr B had known he was moving abroad at the time of the product switch and discussed 
this with the adviser but wasnt told about any potential issues with porting in relation to 
foreign income, thats something hell need to take up with the adviser directly.
In relation to events after the product switch was taken out, I confirm Ive listened to all the 
call recordings provided by Halifax. Although Mr B insists there were other calls when he 
says he told Halifax he would be moving abroad, Halifax hasnt been able to locate any other 
calls. I have to review the complaint on the basis of the available evidence. 
The sequence of calls Ive listened to does not suggest in any way that Mr B told Halifax he 
was moving abroad. He talks about buying another UK property  first of all a buy-to-let (but was told he couldnt port a residential mortgage onto a buy-to-let property), and then a new 
main residential property.  
In the circumstances, given that Halifax was told Ms B and Mr B would be buying another 
property in the UK, Halifax told them  correctly  that, subject to application, their mortgage 
interest rate product would be portable onto a new property. This isnt an automatic process. 
It requires a new mortgage application to ensure both the application and the property meet 
lending criteria.
Im satisfied that it was only when the application was discussed by videolink  after the 
property had already been sold and the ERC incurred  that Halifax first realised Mr B was 
no longer paid in sterling. As the application didnt meet lending criteria, Halifax was entitled 
to decline the application.
I fully understand that Mr B probably wouldnt have been aware that being paid in foreign 
currency would be an issue  he is not a mortgage professional, so I wouldnt have expected 
him to know this. But as I said above, if hed known this was likely to happen before he took 
out the product switch  and if he had mentioned it to his adviser  I think its likely the 
adviser would have explained that a port of the mortgage in those circumstances wouldnt 
have been possible. 
I also think that, because Mr B didnt know it was an issue, it wasnt something he probably 
thought he needed to mention to Halifax. Mr B has explained that he was earning much 
more abroad than he had been in the UK, and so I understand why he thought thered be no 
problem. But it didnt matter how much more he was earning if those earnings didnt meet 
Halifaxs lending criteria.
I do not underestimate Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter, because £10,000 is a lot 
of money. I know Mr B believes that he told Halifax that he was moving abroad before he 
sold the property. However, the evidence does not support this. I acknowledge Mr B thinks 
Halifax hasnt provided us with all the evidence, but I am not persuaded this is the case, as 
the calls I have listened to appear to follow a sequence where Mr B is making various 
enquiries about his options  but does not mention at any point that he is moving abroad. 
After careful consideration, Im not persuaded Halifax has done anything wrong here. Im 
satisfied the bank wasnt aware before Ms B and Mr B sold their property that Mr B had 
moved abroad and was being paid in foreign currency. Once the bank was made aware of 
this, it was entitled to decline any new mortgage application because it was outside its 
lending criteria. In the circumstances, there is no basis on which I can find that Halifax is 
obliged to reimburse the ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman