DRN-4442235
The complaint
Mr K complains that Acorn Insurance and Financial Services Limited (Acorn) didnt 
sufficiently notify him of an increased excess charge, following a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K bought a home insurance policy online. He used a price comparison website and 
selected Acorn as it was the most competitively priced. Mr K was transferred to Acorns 
website to complete the sale. 
Mr K said that throughout his sales journey he wasnt made aware that there would be an 
increased policy excess. He said he had input an excess of £100 on the comparison website 
and as Acorn indicated that the policy excess would be £100, he selected this. 
Mr K lost his mobile phone and made a claim. His claim was validated, and Acorn made a 
settlement payment, but deducted £500. Mr K complained as he said that at no point did 
Acorn make him aware of this increased policy excess. So, he felt that Acorn had mis-sold 
the policy and he wanted it to refund him £400, as well as pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.  
Acorn issued its final response and it said that Mr K, during the sales journey was asked to 
view the policy endorsements that were specific to the policy that he had purchased. Further, 
it said that the information was also available in the policy documents once they were 
issued. And that it had asked Mr K to read all the documents carefully before committing to 
obtaining the policy. Finally, it said that Mr K had a 14-day cooling off period, if he found that 
the policy didnt meet his needs. 
Mr K was unhappy and referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and thought it ought to be partially upheld. She agreed that Mr K 
was asked to tap into a link that would allow him to view all the excesses and that it was 
easy for him to do so. But she said that Acorn ought to have made it much more obvious to 
see, without the need for Mr K to tap a link. She said that Acorn hadnt mis-sold the policy 
but as it hadnt made the increased excess more obvious, it ought to pay Mr K £100 
compensation for this error. She didnt think that Acorn had overall mis-handled the claim. 
Mr K didnt accept the view, he maintained that Acorn ought to have made it obvious about 
the increased excess, which it didnt do. He said that he wanted the ombudsman to decide 
that Acorn should pay him £400, as the agreed excess had been £100 at the time of making 
payment for the policy. 
Acorn also didnt accept the view. It provided evidence to show that the excess charges and 
endorsements were available to view before the policy was taken out, so it also asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 November 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 5 December 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr K, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered the comments and evidence from both parties. I have also reviewed the 
policy terms and conditions and in particular examined, Mr Ks sales journey. I think that the 
main issue of this complaint, is whether Acorn provided enough information about the 
increased excess charge and the endorsements before the policy was taken out. As well as 
post-sale. So, Ive concentrated my provisional decision on these issues. 
Mr K bought his policy with Acorn online. He said that when he inputted his information, the 
price comparison website showed that Acorns excess was £100. And as the price of the 
policy was competitive, he selected Acorn as the provider.
Mr K also said that Acorn was mis-leading as the quote he received from the price 
comparison website had no links to the endorsement or higher excess charges. He said that 
nowhere in the information he was provided with, indicated that there would be a higher 
excess applicable. And he felt that Acorn were unfair to effectively hide this in the policy 
endorsements. 
He disputed what Acorn had said, that the price comparison website had displayed standard 
excesses that werent applicable to the policy he had chosen. As he felt that a price 
comparison website would not be able to decide what excess should be applied to an 
insurer. 
Finally, he said that Acorn hadnt explicably warned him about the higher excess pre-
purchase. And had it done so he wouldnt have bought it from them. He felt misled by Acorn 
and the price comparison website. And again, requested a reimbursement of the £400 he 
had over paid, when he made a claim. Mr K attached a screenshot of what he saw on the 
website. 
I understand that he said that the excesses displayed on that page, indicated a much lower 
amount. But I note that at the top of the page, it asks the question: How would you like to 
pay for your policy. It then displays the cost of the policy, with the option of paying on a 
monthly or annual basis. Acorn said that this page was just the page that gave details about 
the premiums. Given what I have read, I agree.
Although, it is correct there are excesses displayed on that page, they are almost overwritten 
by the premiums that are displayed. Moreover, on page two of the document, there is a 
warning in bold letters. It states: Review Cover Details and that It is important that you 
understand the cover provided to you before you proceed.  Please click the links below to 
view your policy summary and conditions, excess and any endorsements that apply to this 
policy. There are then two links inviting the user to explore the endorsements and view the 
excesses. From the evidence, I dont think Mr K reviewed the cover details. And I dont think he viewed 
the excesses or endorsements contained in the links. The rest of the document relates to 
other add-on cover and the premiums that would be charged if selected. Consequently, I 
think this document not only gives details about the premiums, but also how important it is to 
check all the policy details, which Im currently satisfied Mr K didnt do. 
Im also satisfied that there was sufficient information contained on the page, for Mr K to 
have tapped on the link if he wished to do so. But, again, I dont think he chose to do this 
either. So, I dont agree that this wasnt clearly displayed.
Acorn provided me with the landing page on its website, which it confirmed hasnt been 
changed in any way for several years. On that page, I can see that there is no overlay of the 
excesses with the applicable premiums. Also, on the second page is the warning that it is 
important to check all the documents. As well as two links in bright orange, inviting the user 
to check all the excesses and the endorsements.  Consequently, at this stage, Im satisfied 
that Acorn have shown that the excesses and endorsements were available to view, prior to 
the purchase of any policy.  
In addition, Acorn has provided evidence that a customer would have to have ticked that 
they have read all the policy documents before being able to purchase the policy. Mr K said 
that he bought the policy online, so he mustve indicated that he read all the documents, 
otherwise, the sale wouldnt have been able to be completed. 
Ive also reviewed the documents that were issued to Mr K post-sale and indicated within 
them are the excesses and endorsements. Again, a warning is given that all documents 
should be read to ensure that the policy meets the customers needs. And more importantly, 
it gives a 14-day cooling off period if the policy wasnt suitable. I think that Mr K had the 
responsibility to check all the documents sent to him, in addition to checking the information 
pre-sale (i.e. viewing the information in the links) and Im not convinced that he did this here.
On balance, I think Acorn provided more than enough information pre and post-sale, for Mr 
K to make an informed choice, before proceeding with the purchase. And, if he felt after he
received the policy documents post-sale, that the policy no longer met his needs, he had the 
option to cancel his policy within the first 14-days. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, I think the sales journey, as well as the policy 
documents make it clear that there were endorsements and excesses. I currently havent 
seen enough evidence to show that Acorn acted unfairly to charge the excess payment. If Mr 
K has further evidence that is contrary to this, I will of course consider it. But for now, I intend 
not to ask Acorn to do anything further here.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Acorn had nothing further to add. 
Mr K said that he didnt agree that the excesses and endorsements were available to view 
before he purchased the policy online. He provided a video that he recorded in May 2023, to 
show what he saw before the policy was bought. He said that the excess was shown as 
£100 for both buildings and content. 
He said that it was illegal and unfair for Acorn to have hidden the excess charge and all he 
saw was a charge of £100 not the exorbitant excess of £500. He agreed that he indicated 
that he had read all the terms and conditions but also said the following:It is true that I purchased the policy by agreeing to all T&C but who can read each and 
everything in the T&C and agree before expiry of the webpage. The Insurance companies 
should show important bits about the policy ie. excess without going into clicking extra links 
etc. I never agreed for the hidden £500.00 excess for my contents when I paid for the policy 
and it was not acceptable that they have included £500.00 excess for my contents without 
my agreement.
Finally, he believed that Acorn was buying time to modify its website and rectify any 
mistakes or add extra information in the review policy section. 
I have carefully considered the additional evidence and comments made by Mr K and 
unfortunately, they dont  change my findings. And Ill explain why. 
Mr K said that it was illegal and unfair for Acorn to have hidden the excess charges and that 
essentially, he only saw the excess charge of £100 displayed on the website. He provided 
me with a recording of what he saw pre-purchase of the policy.
I have reviewed the video that he sent, and it displays the landing page of the price 
comparison website that Mr K used initially. It does not display Acorns website at all.  
Having reviewed Acorns landing page (which I accept hasnt changed for several years) this 
clearly indicates and highlights that the user ought to read all the excesses and 
endorsements that are relevant to the policy they might wish to purchase. 
It is right that there are links, which means that the user would have to tap into those links to 
read the further information disclosed within them, but those links are in bright orange, so I 
think are easy to see. 
Further, there is an interactive section on the page, which meant that the user would have to 
indicate that they had read all the policy terms and conditions, before going on to the next 
stage. Mr K appears to admit that he hadnt read all the terms and conditions of the policy. 
And instead, indicated that he had done so. In these circumstances, I cant agree that the 
blame for Mr K failure in reading the policy terms and conditions ought to lie with Acorn. As, I 
dont agree that it hadnt clearly displayed the need and importance, of reading all of the 
policy terms and conditions (including the excesses and endorsements) before completing 
the purchase of the policy.  
In addition, Mr K had 14-days cooling off period, after he had purchased the policy, to allow 
him to read it and ensure that it was suitable for his needs. I cant see that he availed himself 
to this. 
I understand that Mr K believes that Acorn had modified its website, but he has provided me 
with no cogent evidence to support this contention. Acorn has stated that its website hasnt 
changed for several years and provided evidence of this, so Im persuaded that the website 
hadnt changed. So, I dont agree that Acorn modified it. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, I think the sales journey, as well as the policy 
documents make it clear that there were endorsements and excesses. I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Acorn acted unfairly to charge the excess payment. So, I 
wont ask Acorn to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman