DRN-4027483
The complaint
Miss S complains that Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd (Salvation) 
declined her claim for damage to items contained in a storage facility, under her contents 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss S says she was made aware of a flood in 2020 at the storage facility where she had 
some items stored. She says the flood didnt affect the area where her belongings were kept. 
She moved into a new house in June 2022 and in the following months, when unpacking her 
belongings, she noticed damage due to mould and dampness. 
Miss S made a claim to Salvation, which it declined. It told her she had breached the 
conditions of her policy. Salvation says its policy terms require Miss S to take steps to 
prevent any loss or damage. It didnt think she had, as she made no attempt to inspect her 
belongings after the flood. It also says she must notify it as soon as possible of all incidents 
that may give rise to a claim. This must be within 30 days of the incident. 
Salvation says Miss S called in May 2022 when she was removing her items from storage. It 
says she gave instructions to cancel the policy and enquired whether flood loss was 
covered. Salvation says there were opportunities for Miss S to notify it of an incident which 
may have given rise to a claim. 
Miss S didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He says Miss S was told her items werent affected by the flood. So, 
he didnt think Miss S had reason to inspect them. He says unknown to Miss S her 
belongings had been affected by water ingress for a period of two years. Our investigator 
acknowledged Miss S had 30 days to notify Salvation of the loss. But he didnt think this had 
a material impact as the damage had been present for around two years. 
Our investigator says the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules are 
relevant here. He says the rules require that any breach of a condition has to be material to 
the claim in order for a claim to be declined. He thought the 30-day notification condition 
relied upon by Salvation was immaterial in these circumstances. Because of this he says 
Salvation should reconsider Miss Ss claim without relying on the exclusions it had. In 
addition to paying £150 compensation for the inconvenience it caused.
Salvation didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Miss Ss complaint. Let me explain. 
From the evidence provided, Miss S was told that there was a flood in a different part of the 
storage facility in 2020  this was not the area where her belongings were stored. Salvation 
says Miss Ss son also had a storage unit and that this was affected by the flood. It says that 
Miss S was aware the storage facility hadnt told her son his unit was affected. As a result, it 
thinks it wouldve been prudent for her to have inspected her belongings to check if damage 
had been caused in 2020.
Salvation refers to its policy terms that require Miss S to, take all steps to prevent any loss 
or damage. It says by not inspecting her storage unit after she was made aware of the 
flood, and in knowing that her son hadnt been informed about the impact on his unit, Miss S 
had failed to comply with this condition. 
Ive thought about whether Salvations decision was fair here. I dont think it was. Miss S 
confirms that she was told by the storage unit manager that the flood didnt affect her unit as 
it was in a different area of the storage facility. If the storage facility had told Miss S her unit 
was affected, and she hadnt checked for damage, I would agree with Salvation that she 
acted unreasonably and at odds with the terms of the policy. But that isnt what happened. I 
dont think Miss S acted unreasonably in relying on the information given to her by the 
storage facility manager. 
Salvation has also relied on another policy condition when declining her claim. This says:
Your duties in the event of a claim or possible claim under this insurance:
1 You must notify our claims management team at [telephone number], as soon as possible, 
of all incidents that may give rise to a claim. This must be no later than 30 days from the 
date of the incident. If the incident is as a direct result of loss, theft, or any malicious act, 
then you must report the incident to the police within 24 hours of the incident to obtain a 
crime reference number.
2 You must provide us with written details of what happened within 30 days of the incident 
and provide any other information we may require. 
Miss S says her items were moved to her new address on 23 May 2022. She then gave a 
months notice to the temporary rented accommodation she was staying in. Miss S says it 
wasnt until she relocated to her new home, and had time to unpack her belongings, that she 
identified the damage and contacted Salvation to make a claim. 
I note Salvations argument that Miss S didnt make a claim until July 2022. It thinks she 
shouldve been aware of the damage when her items were removed from storage. Salvation 
also says Miss S enquired about flood damage when she called to cancel the policy in May. 
It queried why she did this when she didnt make a claim for a further two months. It says the 
policy terms allow 30 days for her to report the claim, which she didnt do.
Ive considered the contact notes that indicate Miss S asked about flood cover when she 
called in May 2022. Ive thought about whether this means she knew about the damage at 
this time. 
I acknowledge Miss S says she only called to cancel the policy. Salvations records do 
mention an enquiry about cover for flood damage  so there is a discrepancy between the 
two accounts. 
I asked Salvation if it could supply a recording of the call from its conversation with Miss S in May 2022. It was able to provide this, and Ive listened carefully to what was said. In the call 
Miss S explains she will be moving her items soon and mentions she has been to the 
storage facility to check on them. Miss S says she noticed some of the boxes were wet and 
asks if there is damage should she claim on her insurance or from the storage facility. 
During the call Salvations agent explains its policy covers flood damage and says Miss S 
will need to be transferred through to its claims department. Miss S says she doesnt want to 
claim yet, as she hasnt been able to get into the storage unit to check if there is any 
damage, due to the quantity of items she has in there. She says she wont know if there is 
damage until she moves out. Miss S then confirms the date from which she wants to cancel 
the policy and the agent processes this for her.   
Having listened to the call Miss S was aware of the possibility that her items could be 
damaged in May 2022. She refers to the flood shed been made aware of and that shed 
noticed some of her boxes were wet when she visited the facility most recently. I also note 
her comments that it wasnt possible to identify if there was damage until the stored items 
were moved out. 
Salvations policy terms say Miss S should notify it within 30 days of any incident that may 
give rise to a claim. Based on the evidence Miss S was reasonably first aware that damage 
may have been caused to her stored items when she called in May 2022. However, she 
didnt speak to Salvations claims team for the reasons discussed. 
Ive thought about whether its fair for Salvation to rely on this term to decline Miss Ss claim. 
I dont think it is. Its agent didnt advise Miss S during the call that she must contact the 
claims team within 30 days, or this may result in the claim being declined. I think this 
wouldve been a reasonable point to mention. That said even though Salvations terms 
indicate it can decline a claim for not notifying it within 30 days, it doesnt mean that its fair 
to do so. 
Our investigator referred to the ICOBS rules. I think these are relevant here. Particularly 
8.1.2B. Essentially this says that for an insurer to decline a claim for a breach of its policy 
terms and conditions, the breach must be material to the loss. In these circumstances I dont 
think it is. The evidence indicates the damage was the result of a flood that took place at the 
storage facility in 2020. Any damage resulting from the flood had most likely occurred prior to 
May 2022. This is when Miss S reasonably became aware of possible damage to her stored 
items and contacted Salvation to see if she was covered.      
In these circumstances I dont think the delay in Miss S making a claim was material to her 
loss. So, I dont think its fair for Salvation to rely on this term to decline her claim. 
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Miss S. Her claim was declined unfairly, which 
has clearly caused inconvenience and distress. I think its fair that Salvation pays Miss S 
£150 compensation to acknowledge this point.  
Having considered all of this, I dont think Salvation treated Miss S fairly. It should now 
reconsider her claim in line with the remaining policy terms and pay her £150 compensation 
for the inconvenience and distress it caused her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Salvation Army General Insurance 
Corporation Ltd should:
reconsider Miss Ss claim in line with its remaining policy terms without relying on the terms it has to decline the claim; and
pay Miss S £150 compensation for the inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman