DRN-3946903
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way UK Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a motor insurance policy with UK Insurance (trading as Churchill). Ill refer to the 
business as UKI to keep things simple. 
Mr H was involved in an accident in which someone drove into the back of his car. He 
contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI concluded that Mr Hs car was beyond economic repair 
(whats commonly referred to as a write-off). 
UKIs engineers valued the car at £1,000. UKI deducted Mr Hs policy excess of £100 from 
the £1,000. It also deducted £100 to represent the salvage value of the car, which Mr H kept. 
So it sent Mr H £800 in settlement of his claim. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the valuation. He believes his car was worth more than £1,000. And 
hes unhappy that UKI only sent him £800 even though it valued the car at £1,000. He says 
he cant buy a decent car for £800. He asked UKI to buy a car for him and deliver it to him if 
it considers £800 to be enough, but UKI refused.
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought that the valuation UKI put on Mr Hs car was fair. And he said £800 had been the 
correct amount to send Mr H in settlement of his claim, taking into account the excess and 
salvage value.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons.
Mr H believes that £1,600 would be a more appropriate value to place on his car, based on 
adverts hes seen for cars for sale. I acknowledge that many cars of the model and age of 
Mr Hs car are, as Mr H says, advertised for more than £1,000. But second-hand cars often 
sell for less than the advertised price.
When we look at complaints about the way an insurer has valued a car, we consider whether 
the insurer offered the policyholder a fair value, in line with the terms of the insurance policy. 
We normally consider the leading trade guides. But in this case, Mr Hs car was more than 
20 years old, and the trade guides dont provide valuations for it. So in reaching their 
valuation, UKIs engineers took into account the closest comparable car they could find on 
the market, taking into account the mileage, condition and history of Mr Hs car. 
UKIs engineers report described the pre-accident condition of Mr Hs car as fair. 
I acknowledge that Mr H doesnt accept this. He considers its condition to have been good. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to rely on the opinion of its expert engineers. 
Most of the advertised cars of the same model and age as Mr Hs car that Ive seen appear 
to be in better condition that Mr Hs car was before the accident. Whats more, they tend to 
have significantly lower mileage. Taking everything into account, I cant say that the value 
that UKI placed on Mr Hs car was unfair.
The excess payable was shown clearly on Mr Hs policy documents as £100. So Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for UKI to deduct that amount from the settlement. And as Mr H opted 
to keep the car, it was reasonable for UKI to deduct a further £100 from the settlement, in 
line with the engineers estimate of the salvage value. So Im satisfied that UKI acted fairly in 
sending Mr H £800 in settlement of his claim.
There was no requirement under the policy for UKI to buy a replacement car for Mr H, or to 
ensure that hed be able to buy a replacement car with the amount he received in settlement. 
So I cant say that UKI did anything wrong by refusing to do so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H. Being involved in an accident is stressful, and I know he feels 
strongly that UKI should have paid him more for his car. But I consider that it dealt with his 
claim fairly, and in line with the policy terms. So I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman