DRN-2417648
The complaint
Mrs P has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she paid to a fraudster.
What happened
During the first national period of lockdown in 2020 Mrs P was considering buying a pet. She 
researched availability on a well-known website selling pets. After making contact with 
somebody who was advertising a puppy, she carried out some essential checks into their 
veracity. Mrs P agreed to pay £200 as a deposit. She sent this money on 8 May 2020 from 
her Monzo account.
Within a short period Mrs P realised shed been scammed. She was no longer able to 
contact the person shed been buying a puppy from. The online pet site took down adverts 
from this person as they were in breach of their terms and conditions.
Mrs P contacted Monzo to see whether theyd help her get her money back. Monzo were 
able to see the money had been moved from the recipients account as soon as it had been 
received. They believed that Mrs P had ignored effective warnings about scams so didnt 
refund her. Mrs P brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. Although Monzo arent a signatory to the 
Contingency Reimbursement Model code, they had agreed to apply the principles of the 
code to these types of cases. On that basis he didnt believe Mrs P had ignored an effective 
warning about a potential scam and had a reasonable basis to believe the transaction she 
was carrying out was genuine. He asked Monzo to refund £200 along with 8% simple 
interest.
Monzo didnt agree with this outcome. They asked an ombudsman to consider Mrs Ps 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I explain below why Ive reached the outcome I have.
The Contingency Reimbursement Model code which came into play in May 2019 fits the bill 
when I consider relevant standards and codes of practice. Theres no dispute the payment 
Mrs P made  an authorised push payment for £200 to another UK-based account  is 
exactly the type of transaction covered by the code. Mrs P was duped by a third party into 
sending money in exchange for goods which turned out not to exist. In other words the 
payment Mrs P made was an APP scam.
The starting point is that a customers bank should reimburse the victim of an APP scam. 
Theres two main aspects which I should take into account here. Firstly whether Mrs P 
ignored an effective warning about a scam; and then whether Mrs P made the payment 
without any reasonable basis that this was genuine.
Monzo showed us the warning that Mrs P would have seen before completing her 
transaction. To be considered effective, any warning needs to be specific rather than just 
generally warning that scams happen. Monzos warning was general in its terms  and as 
Mrs P had already carried out reasonable checks into the person she was dealing with and 
the puppy she thought she was buying  I can understand why Mrs P didnt believe that it 
applied to her.
Monzo has also drawn attention to the clear warnings that the pet website used. These 
specifically told individuals to make sure they didnt make any purchase before seeing the 
pet they were buying. But I dont believe Mrs P acted unreasonably in not doing that. Its 
worth looking at the time she was making this purchase. Shed have been acting illegally by 
travelling unnecessarily and mixing with people outside of her household grouping. I dont 
think its unreasonable that Mrs P followed relevant government guidance at the time.
Overall I believe Monzo should reimburse Mrs P under the CRM code.
Putting things right
Monzo will need to pay back £200 to Mrs P. 8% simple interest will need to be added to this 
amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Reimburse Mrs P by paying her £200; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 8 May 2020 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman