DRN-1624146
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M holds with National Westminster Bank Plc. Hes 
unhappy that NatWest seeks to impose an annual consent to let (CTL) fee of £120. He says 
he paid a one-off fee of £100 in 2014 and his contract cant be changed. To put things right, 
he has demanded that we tell NatWest to write his mortgage off altogether.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether the underlying contract allows NatWest to introduce a 
new CTL fee and expect Mr M to pay it. I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling that it cannot, 
but Im afraid he has mis-directed himself. 
As a starting point, mortgages are long-term contracts which, by necessity, are capable of 
being varied to reflect changes in the economic and regulatory climate. Additionally, 
mortgage contracts have attached to them the lenders tariff of fees, which is also capable of 
being varied from time to time. Provided that lenders give borrowers reasonable notice of 
any changes, they can generally speaking consider the borrower bound by the changes.
In Mr Ms case, the amendment in dispute is the introduction of a new fee to the tariff; 
specifically an annual CTL fee. Borrowers have a choice of either paying it directly or having 
it added to the mortgage balance. For the reasons Ive already given, NatWest can do this, 
and Im satisfied it has given Mr M reasonable notice of its intention to do so. 
That being the case, there is no reason why NatWest should not fairly apply the fee in 
Mr Ms case. That said, I note that NatWest was willing to waive the CTL fee for 2020, which 
would mean that by the time the next fee was due in 2021, Mr Ms current rate deal would 
have ended, leaving him free to re-mortgage without paying an early repayment charge. 
NatWest didnt need to make that offer, and given that Mr M didnt accept it, NatWest had 
done nothing wrong by seeking to collect the CTL fee for 2020 after all. 
Mr M doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor NatWest 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr Ms right to take legal action against NatWest over the subject matter of 
this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
Mr M has told us he intends to do just that, and to go to the Supreme Court if need be, 
unless NatWest writes off his debt in full. Thats Mr M prerogative of course, but I would 
strongly recommend that he seeks legal advice on the matter before embarking on such a 
course of action
.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman