DRN-3048622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given them a cash refund of 
the premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 10 March 2020 to cover a cruise 
between 2 and 16 June 2020. The insurer was Great Lakes. The premium Mr and Mrs T 
paid for the policy was £177.13. The policy included cover for some medical conditions, as 
well as travel disruption cover.
The cruise was cancelled on 4 May 2020 and Mr and Mrs T got a full refund for the cruise 
from the provider. So, Mr and Mrs T asked Great Lakes for a refund of the premiums they 
paid because they didnt need the policy anymore.
Great Lakes has offered a pro-rata voucher refund which is valid for 36 months. It originally 
calculated the refund from 15 June 2020 and didnt include a refund for the travel disruption 
cover. Great Lakes has since recalculated the pro-rata amount (£78.72) from the date the 
cruise was cancelled (4 May 2020), and it includes a pro-rata refund for the travel disruption 
cover. Great Lakes has said the voucher can be gifted to a third party but it cant be sold on. 
It has also said the voucher can be used to purchase any new policy, including a single trip 
or an annual one.
Mr and Mrs T arent happy with this offer, as they want the refund in cash instead of a 
voucher.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 10 March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the updated pro-rata refund, calculated from the point the holiday was 
cancelled and including a refund for an additional cover option, as a voucher, was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy outline their cancellation rights 
under the contract. They say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think the offer Great Lakes has made is fair and reasonable because: 
Mr and Mrs T say their contract with Great Lakes was effectively frustrated, so they 
should be given a cash refund, as per guidance by Competition & Markets Authority 
(CMA). Ive taken that guidance and Mr Ts comments on it into account when 
reaching my decision. But, taking into account the relevant law, I dont think the 
premium is returnable in the circumstances of this complaint. Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed. Mr and Mrs T had the 
benefit of cover under their insurance policy between March and May as the policy 
provided cover for pre-travel insured events, such as illness. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance also says that theres no 
refund for cancellations after the 14 day cooling off period.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Mr and Mrs T were covered from 10 March 2020 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. I think Great 
Lakes offer of pro-rata refund from the date the cruise was cancelled is fair and 
reasonable.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
complaint because its valid for 36 months, it can be gifted to a third party, and it can 
be used to buy any policy. So, I dont think that the terms of the voucher are so 
restrictive that it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs T to accept it. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest that there are any exceptional circumstances that apply to 
Mr and Mrs T.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs T have pointed to a previous decision made by our 
service. Every case is different and its my role to determine what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Having done so, I remain satisfied that 
Great Lakes has offered a fair resolution to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
  My final decision
Its my decision that the offer Great Lakes Insurance SE has made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to issue the pro-rata 
voucher to Mr and Mrs T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman