DRN-3961483
The complaint
Mr M has experienced a number of problems in his dealings with Home Retail Group Card 
Services Ltd trading as Argos Card Services (Argos).
What happened
Mr M has an Argos credit card and made his monthly payments to it using an app on his 
mobile phone. He received a message to say the app was insecure. Argos told him that if he 
continued to see the message, hed need to download a new app. But the app was too big 
for the storage on his phone, so he was unable to do so. This meant Mr M was unable to 
make payments in the way hed been used to and this led to a few late payments for which 
he was charged each time.
In order to make payments by an alternative method he was comfortable with, Mr M would 
call Argos. Each time, staff members would advise him to download the app, despite him 
telling Argos he was unable to do so. This became stressful for Mr M as he had to repeat 
himself each time he called to make a payment. He told Argos he has a hearing impairment 
and mental health issues, so using the phone was stressful enough without being told to do 
something hed already said he couldnt do. In December 2020, Mr M says he had a seizure 
which he believes was brought on by the stress of dealing with Argos over the phone.
Mr M complained to Argos about the service he was receiving and was promised a call back. 
This was over his birthday weekend, so he says he reorganised activities to ensure he could 
take the call. But the call wasnt made which understandably caused him distress and 
inconvenience.
He made several calls trying to chase up a response and find a solution to the problems he 
was facing despite finding phone work difficult. Mr M tells us that he asked to pay weekly 
rather than monthly but was told he couldnt. He complained about the level of interest 
charged on his account and was promised some would be refunded but it wasnt. He says 
Argos emailed him a final response letter but knew he had no space on his phone to be able 
to download and read it.
Argos looked into his complaint and issued several responses as these complaints werent 
all raised at once. It confirmed it had refunded interest of £53.07 under a buy now pay later 
agreement (BNPL) which had been repaid slightly later than due. Argos promised to refund 
three late payment fees as a result of issues Mr M had faced in making payments on time. It 
also credited Mr Ms account with £30 in recognition of the complaint handler not calling him 
when promised. It said overall the charges and interest levied were in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms account.
Mr M didnt agree with Argos responses and referred his complaints to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into them. He noted the problems Mr M had experienced and said 
Argos should refund any late payment fees and rework the account to remove any interest 
as a result of late payments due to the problems with the app.
Argos didnt accept what our investigator recommended. It said it felt it had done enough to 
resolve Mr Ms concerns. As there was no agreement, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I didnt agree with our investigator. I issued a provisional decision saying:
The rules that govern our service are set out in the handbook of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  specifically the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules.
DISP 3.5.8 says that the ombudsman may give directions as to the issues on which 
evidence is required. 
DISP 3.5.14 says if the respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the ombudsman 
may include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by 
that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Mr M has referred to us a number of issues as set out above and has been reasonably clear 
in what hes told us. But despite repeated requests, Ive not been able to get a full picture of 
what happened from Argos point of view. Ive asked Argos to provide evidence such as call 
recordings and contact notes where Mr M raised his original complaints, but unfortunately it 
has been unwilling or unable to do so. It has provided partial contact notes, and some calls, 
but several pieces of evidence provided have been irrelevant or incomplete. Furthermore, it 
has told us it refunded three late payment fees but, after being asked to provide evidence of 
that, discovered it hadnt  it had only refunded two.
All this has unnecessarily delayed Mr Ms complaint and has therefore increased his distress 
and inconvenience. In accordance with the DISP rules above, Ive reflected that in the 
resolution I propose. Ive reached a view based on the evidence I do have.
It is not in dispute that Mr M is obliged to make payments to his credit card each month and 
by the due date on his statement. There are a number of ways he can do this which are set 
out in the same document, and include methods such as direct debit, online banking, phone 
and Mr Ms preferred method, via the app. Argos implemented changes to its app - 
presumably in an effort to make things easier for it and its customers  and that is a matter 
for its own judgement. I cant tell Argos that it was wrong to upgrade the app.
But the changes it made caused problems for Mr M and led to him feeling he had to call 
monthly to make a payment. Until Argos recently placed a marker on his account to prevent 
it, he was consistently advised to download the app despite having told Argos he is unable to 
do so. I can appreciate this will have been frustrating for him.
Furthermore, the hours Mr M works makes it difficult for him to get through to the call 
centres. He has short breaks, but in calls Ive listened to, he says hes been hanging on for a 
long time during those breaks to speak with someone. While I appreciate calling a business 
will almost always lead to a queue of sorts, I feel more could have been done to help Mr M to 
understand the other payment methods available. This might have meant he wouldnt need 
to spend time calling and queuing. For example, while Ive heard direct debit mentioned as a 
payment method, Ive not heard the benefits of that explained to Mr M. Argos could have 
said a direct debit can be set to take the minimum payment each month on the due date, so 
he wouldnt need to call and wouldnt miss a payment (assuming funds are available).
Mr M has explained that he is hard of hearing and suffers with his mental health. Hes said the stress of dealing with Argos brought on a seizure in December 2020. Argos has 
acknowledged Mr Ms hearing problems but told me it had no record of Mr M telling it about 
his mental health issues or the seizure he had. However, I have heard conversations 
between Mr M and Argos staff in which he mentions his mental health problems, and one 
call that Argos provided which was an internal call between two members of staff which 
included mention of his seizure. The seizure is also mentioned in the incomplete contact 
notes Ive received from it. So, I think on balance, its fair to conclude Argos ought 
reasonably to have been aware of Mr Ms mental health issues and of the seizure.
Given what Mr M has told Argos about his health I think it would have been reasonable for 
Argos to have concluded that he is a vulnerable consumer (as defined by the FCA). But I 
cant see that Argos has tried to put anything different in place for him or to give him any 
extra assistance.
Mr M has become so frustrated with the service he receives from the business, that he has 
said in many of the calls Ive listened to, that he wants to be done with Argos. Having 
considered all the evidence to hand, I feel Argos could have done more to assist Mr M. And 
as Ive said above, it has delayed things unnecessarily by failing to provide information 
and/or providing inaccurate and incomplete information.
As Ive set out, Argos has caused Mr M distress and inconvenience, so I plan to uphold his 
complaint. I think Argos should put things right by paying Mr M £300. If he wishes, this 
money should be paid direct to Mr M, or he can ask for it to be paid off his account which 
may well clear the balance enabling him to move on in line with his wish mentioned above. 
Any excess money should be paid to Mr M direct.
Argos has accepted my provisional decision. Mr M has acknowledged it but feels the award 
Ive recommended is a little light  he feels £350 to £400 is appropriate. He says he found it 
very difficult to phone Argos due to his hearing impairment and the effective removal of the 
app from him caused him a lot of stress.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments and have thought carefully about what hes said. I have to 
bear in mind that Argos was entitled to upgrade its app as it felt necessary. And there were 
other payment methods available to Mr M  such as direct debit  which will have meant he 
didnt need to call each month. But I also believe Argos ought to have done more to assist 
Mr M as Ive set out above. 
All things considered, I think the recommendation Ive made  that Argos should pay Mr M 
£300 - is fair and reasonable taking into account all the circumstances involved. Mr M tells 
me this will clear the balance of his account with Argos, so if he chooses to have the money 
paid to the account, I hope itll enable him to move on from the experience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services Ltd trading as Argos Card 
Services, I intend to uphold this complaint. It should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman