DRN-2748781
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, provided 
him with a line of credit which he believes was unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr D applied to Cashplus for a credit account. Mr Ds application was 
approved, and he was provided with a credit account with a credit limit of £1,000.
In February 2020, Mr D raised a complaint with Cashplus because he felt that the credit 
account that Cashplus had given him wasnt affordable for him at the time at the time of the 
application in 2016, and that this should have been apparent to Cashplus had they 
conducted appropriate checks into his financial circumstances at that time.
Cashplus looked at Mr Ds complaint, but they felt that they had conducted reasonable 
checks into Mr Ds financial circumstances, and that these checks had demonstrated that the 
credit being offered was affordable for Mr D at the time that the had applied for it. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Cashplus response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Cashplus had 
conducted reasonable and proportionate checks, and that these checks hadnt given 
Cashplus any reason to suspect that the credit being offered to Mr D might be unaffordable 
for him at the time of the application. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will provide credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business conducts 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered is affordable for 
that customer at the time that the credit is being applied for.
Having reviewed this complaint, it appears that Cashplus did that here. They took details of 
Mr Ds income and considered this alongside information that they obtained from Mr Ds 
credit file. This, along with other information gathered by Cashplus at the time of the 
application, led Cashplus to conclude that a credit account with a credit limit of £1,000 would 
be affordable for Mr D. And having considered this information myself, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Cashplus to have reached this conclusion.
Mr D has explained to this service that at that time he was using credit to repay other credit. 
However, this doesnt appear to be borne out by the transaction details on Mr Ds Cashplus 
account statements, which demonstrate that, once the credit account was approved and 
made available to Mr D, the credit account here was used by Mr D to make a variety of retail 
purchases.
I also must note that this service would only expect Cashplus to base their decision to offer 
credit on the information that they had available to them, such as Mr Ds credit file and the 
information that was provided to them at the time of the application by Mr D. And having 
reviewed that information, Im not convinced that it would be reasonable to have expected 
Cashplus to have concluded that Mr D was in financial difficulty such that they should have 
had cause to consider the credit as being unaffordable for Mr D. 
I say this because while Mr Ds credit file did show that Mr D had other loans and credit 
accounts at that time, Mr D was managing those accounts without incident, and I dont feel 
that there was anything visible on Mr Ds credit file at the time of the application that should 
have given Cashplus any cause to reconsider their decision to offer Mr D a credit line of 
£1,000.
That isnt to say that Mr D wasnt experiencing financial difficulty at the time of the 
application, but only that Im satisfied that there was nothing in the information that Cashplus 
had available to them that would indicate to them that Mr D was experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
It may have been the case that, had Cashplus conducted additional affordability checks, 
these may have given Cashplus with cause for concern. But Cashplus are obliged to 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks and given the relatively low level of credit 
being offered here, Im not convinced that such additional checks would have been 
proportionate to the credit being offered, and because of this Im satisfied that it isnt 
reasonable to have expected Cashplus to have undertaken these additional checks in this 
instance.
All of which means that Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Cashplus to conclude, from 
the information that they had available for them at the time the Mr D applied for the credit 
account, that the credit account would be affordable for Mr D. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Cashplus to take any further action at this time.
Its acknowledged that Mr D is presently experiencing financial difficulties, but it doesnt 
follow from his circumstances now that it was unfair for Cashplus to have approved his credit 
application in 2016. What this service would expect now, given that Mr D has informed 
Cashplus that he is experiencing financial difficulty, is that Cashplus would respond to Mr D 
with a degree of positivity and sympathy to help him repay the balance that he owes in a 
manner that is affordable for him at this time.
I can see that in July 2017, Cashplus agreed a tailored repayment plan for Mr Ds account 
after having spoken to National Debt Relief, who were acting on Mr Ds behalf. This is 
indicative that Cashplus were sympathetic to Mr Ds position. Im uncertain as to the current 
state of the relationship between Mr D and Cashplus or how the current outstanding balance 
is being managed, but it would be expected that Mr Ds current financial and personal 
position would be taken into account when considering an appropriate repayment plan for 
this balance moving forwards.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman