The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that their Guaranteed Reserve Account (the account) with the 
Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) was closed in 2010, and they do not know what happened to 
the funds.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr G and Mrs G and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In July 2019 Mrs G made an enquiry about the account to learn that it had been closed in 
2010. Halifax have been unable to provide any great detail regarding what happened to the 
funds in the account due to the passage of time, and explained that they no longer have 
records to shed light on what happened. As such they did not uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Mr G and Mrs G was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, came to the conclusion that Halifax had dealt with their complaint fairly.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Halifax has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Halifax have a limited amount of records now because the closure of the account took place 
in 2010. They have looked at what records they do have and have been able to identify that 
the account was a joint account which was closed on the 17 December 2010. The account 
DRN-1793576had been set up in such a way that it required only 1 signatory to effect withdrawals . They 
have also been able to identify that the account matured on the 25 November 2010 and the 
rate of interest was reduced that day down to 0.1%.
I can appreciate how concerning it is for both Mr G and Mrs G as they dont know what 
happened to the funds in the account. But what I have to do is consider what is likely to have 
happened on a balance of probabilities. It is unfortunate that Halifax only have a few records 
available to allow them to investigate this matter, but I cant criticise them for that because 
they have a reasonable policy of only keeping certain records for 6 years.
I think in the circumstances of this case it is more likely than not that the account was closed 
by one of the signatories. I say that for two reasons. First, it had been closed for nearly 9 
years without complaint or enquiry, which I appreciate is not of itself definitive. Secondly, I 
also consider that for it to have been closed by a third party, that would have required some 
element of fraud, for which there is no evidence. 
Whilst I do not criticise Mr G and Mrs G for bringing this complaint to our service, since they 
rightly wish to understand what happened to their funds, I think, on the evidence, the more 
likely scenario is that either Mr G or Mrs G closed the account and are simply mistaken in 
believing that they did not.
So, although Mr G and Mrs G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman