DRN-3345175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain Admiral Insurance Company Limited has unfairly settled a claim 
theyve made on their buildings insurance policy following subsidence at their property.
What happened
Mr A brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout. 
References I make to Admiral includes its agents and representatives.
Mr As property experienced subsidence some years ago. Admiral accepted the 
claim and appointed a specialist to manage it and the required works. 
Some trees, on a golf course, at the end of Mr As garden were removed as these 
were found to have impacted his property. A period of monitoring followed and when 
this showed the property had stabilised, the remedial work started.
Mr A made a number of previous complaints during the claim but these arent 
covered by this decision as they would have been brought to this Service outside the 
required timescales.
After some considerable back and forth, Admiral eventually cash settled the claim as 
it said Mr A hadnt provided his choice of materials nor had he allowed its contractors 
into the property to complete the work. 
Mr A made a further complaint to Admiral and, unhappy with its response, brought 
his complaint to this Service. It covered his floor not being levelled, his garden 
flooding, the lack of a replacement fence of sufficient height, the standard of 
plastering and the issues with the kitchen units not being resolved satisfactorily.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Admiral had acted fairly in 
cash settling the claim and had included the cost of levelling the floor and remedial 
work to the kitchen units in the cash settlement it made. 
Admiral had also made an allowance for the installation of a fence but felt any further 
problems with golf balls entering Mr As garden would need to be taken up with the 
golf club.
She wasnt persuaded Admiral was responsible for Mr As garden flooding as this 
wasnt related to the claim.
Mr A disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised multiple issues over the life of the claim and in this complaint. My role 
requires me to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and that means I 
might not comment on everything the parties have said, only on what I consider relevant to 
the decision I need to make. But I have read and considered everything thats been 
provided.
The cash settlement
Admiral says Mr A didnt cooperate fully when it was arranging the remedial works and he 
wouldnt let its contractors into his house. Eventually, after a number of cancellations and 
missed deadlines, the contractors were no longer willing to undertake the work. 
So, after some back and forth, Admiral decided to cash settle the claim. Our Investigator 
explained under the policy terms, Admiral is entitled to do this, so I dont propose to go over 
that again. 
Admiral paid Mr A the sum of £13,300, some of which was attributed to specific work and the 
remainder, approximately £5,000, included to cover other contingencies. 
Levelling the flooring
There has been significant back and forth about this issue. Mr A says the floors in the living 
room and kitchen needed levelling as a result of the subsidence claim. Admiral disagreed 
with this, as its experts said the level of the floors wasnt due to the subsidence. 
Mr A provided Admiral with a quote for £1,848 to have the floor levelling work undertaken, 
and while Admiral didnt agree this work was required, as a gesture of goodwill, it paid Mr A  
a sum sufficient to cover this work under the contingency part of the cash settlement Ive 
referred to above. 
Overall, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Admiral included the cost of these levelling 
works within the calculation of its cash settlement and I wont be asking it to do anymore on 
this part of the complaint.
The garden flooding
Mr A says the removal of trees during the mitigation works has led to his garden flooding 
during periods of rain, which didnt happen before.
Admirals experts have provided their views on this issue. They say the soil in the area is 
heavy clay and prone to flooding. This is exacerbated by Mr As garden being lower on all 
four sides than the ground surrounding it. So when it rains, water runs off his neighbours 
gardens and the golf course into his, resulting in waterlogging. They say this would have 
happened before the trees were removed and isnt as a result of mitigation work. On 
balance, Im satisfied this is a reasonable explanation.
Mr A says hes had verbal confirmation from a surveyor that his opinion on this issue is 
correct. But Ive not been given any documentary evidence or expert opinion which backs up 
what Mr A says, or the advice he says hes received. Overall, I find the opinion of Admirals 
experts to be more persuasive. So, I wont be directing Admiral to do anything more on this 
issue.
The replacement fence
Following a period of negotiation with the golf club that owned them, a number of trees separating the golf course from Mr As garden were removed during the subsidence 
mitigation works. Mr A says his house is no longer protected from golf balls being hit into his 
garden as the trees previously acted as a natural barrier.
I note from the evidence, Admiral made an allowance of £1,000 which it says Mr A could use 
to erect a fence. But he thinks a bigger, more expensive fence is required. 
It seems to me though, the trees in question belonged to the golf club and the balls entering 
his garden come from people playing golf  not that Mr A previously had his own fence or his 
own barrier that had been removed. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold Admiral responsible for this potential risk or to direct it to contribute more than its 
already done as this issue isnt directly related to the subsidence claim. Mr A may wish to 
approach the golf club to discuss greater protection from mis-directed golf balls, but this is a 
matter for him to decide.
The standard of the plastering and the kitchen units
Admiral says the plastering work had been done to an acceptable standard but Mr A 
disagreed. Admiral says its contractors were due to go back and reinspect the work but, by 
this time, Mr A was no longer happy for them to do any further works. So, it says any 
remedial work required on the plastering would be covered by the contingency amount it 
paid Mr A under the cash settlement. 
Mr A says the work to the kitchen units wasnt completed and the units remain on stilts. But I 
can see Admiral included the cost of the work to the kitchen within its calculation of the 
settlement figure. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing which persuades me the amount Admiral paid wasnt sufficient to 
have this work undertaken. So, I wont be asking Admiral to do anymore on this part of the 
complaint.
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Admiral 
to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman