DRN-3103283
The complaint
1. Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim 
under their home emergency insurance policy.
2. Mr J has largely been the main point of contact for matters relating to the claim.
3. Mrs J is a joint policyholder.
What happened
4. Theres a large amount of evidence relating to this matter. The following is a 
summary of the facts which I think are relevant to this complaint.
5. Mr and Mrs J made a claim to Aviva because they thought they had a blocked 
drain. 
6. After many investigations eventually in November 2018 Aviva told Mr and Mrs J 
the bath, sink and flooring in their basement bathroom needed to be removed so 
that it could tunnel through the front wall of their house to get to a cracked 
rainwater gully in an inaccessible light well, install a new gully and reconnect to 
the existing run. 
7. There was some discussion about who was responsible for reinstating the 
bathroom after this work had been done. 
8. In March 2020 the work was carried out. There was a short delay to starting the 
work because one of Avivas contractors had to self-isolate.
9. Mr J said because of the delay his carpenter wasnt able to take up the wooden 
flooring in the bathroom.
10. Avivas contractor took up the wooden flooring, dug down under the floor, 
repaired a leaking gully in the lightwell before filling in the hole with concrete and 
laying a screed on top.
11. Mr and Mrs J stayed elsewhere while the works were being carried out.
12. The contractor disposed of the wooden flooring. He said it had become rotten 
due to the ongoing leak.
13. Mr and Mrs J complained to Aviva that their wooden floor hadnt been 
reinstated. They said not all the flooring had been damaged by the leak and 
theyd have asked their carpenter to save the undamaged flooring.
14. Mr and Mrs J tried without success to persuade their current home insurer to 
accept responsibility for the reinstatement work.
15. Aviva apologised for the short delay in starting the works and awarded them 
£250 compensation for the inconvenience caused. It didnt change its decision 
that Mr and Mrs J werent entitled to a new wooden floor under their policy. It 
said it would put back the bath and sink once the floor had been replaced.
16. Mr J is a disabled consumer with a number of serious health issues.
17. Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service. They also said Avivas 
contractor had damaged a wooden unit in their bathroom by putting heavy tools on 
it.
18. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She recommended that Aviva should 
pay £250 towards the wooden flooring. She also thought it should repair or replace 
the unit which its contractor had damaged.
19. As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
20 In this complaint Im only looking at whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs J fairly and 
reasonably in not reinstating their bathroom floor. Ill also look at the related issue of 
damage to their bathroom unit.
21 Mr J has pointed out that neither he nor Mrs J signed a disclaimer prior to the floor 
being taken up. In the disclaimer they would have been asked to confirm that Aviva 
wouldnt be liable for any damage caused as a result of repairing the leak. This is 
common in home emergency claims where there isnt direct access to the source of 
the leak. 
22 Aviva told Mr J about the need for the disclaimer in emails dated 26 February, 2 
March and 12 March 2020. It said its contractor hadnt asked them to sign the 
disclaimer because of the need to reduce personal contact in the pandemic. I think 
Aviva did enough to draw Mr and Mrs Js attention to the limit on its liability under 
the policy.
23 I also think Mr and Mrs J would have signed the disclaimer if asked as a refusal 
would almost certainly have meant the works not going ahead. So I dont think it 
would be fair to make Aviva responsible for replacing the whole of the bathroom 
floor because of this omission.
24 However, even if they had signed the disclaimer, Aviva would still be responsible for 
loss or damage caused by a failure to take reasonable care during the works.
25 Avivas contractor said the flooring was rotten. But the photos Ive seen show the 
floorboards after they were taken up and they dont look rotten. I accept that some 
would have been damaged by the water leak which had been going on for a long 
time. But that doesnt mean they were all rotten.
26 Knowing that Aviva wasnt accepting liability for replacing the floor, I dont think its 
contractor treated Mr and Mrs J fairly in disposing of all the floorboards without 
consulting them.27 Taking into account the size of the bathroom I think it was reasonable for our 
investigator to say that Aviva should be liable for replacing three square metres of 
flooring. 
28 Based on current prices of equivalent flooring Im satisfied that equates to a cash 
contribution of £250.
29 From photos taken while the work was being done I can see that Avivas contractor 
placed heavy tools on the wooden sink unit with no protection underneath them. I 
think its likely that any damage to the unit was caused as a result of that. Since it 
was negligent of Avivas contractor not to protect the unit when using it as a 
workbench, I think it should repair any damage or replace the unit.
30 Mr J has also raised a further issue with us that theres a bump in the concrete floor 
or screed that he would like removed. Since I cant see that he has raised this with 
Aviva previously, I cant look at that issue as part of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs J a contribution of £250 towards 
replacement flooring. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J a 
contribution of £250 towards replacement flooring. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman