DRN-4489493
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says he already had several commitments which made this additional one unaffordable 
and also meant that he shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £5,000.00 in August 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £213.12. One of our investigators reviewed what       
Mr M and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why this is the case in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and this showed Mr M could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he was in financial 
difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans didnt just simply accept what Mr M had told 
it. It carried out credit searches which showed that Mr M didnt have any significant adverse 
information recorded against him such as defaults or County Court Judgments (CCJ) 
recorded against him in the three years prior to this application. 
Furthermore, while I accept that Mr M might dispute this, his unsecured credit commitments 
werent excessive in comparison to his income and there was no recent concerning 
information such as payday loan usage. Equally, the loan Mr M has referred to taking out in 
June 2021 didnt show on Likely Loans searches possibly because it was so recent that the 
information hadnt had time to update.
 
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. I know that Mr M has said that he struggled to make his repayments and that he 
had to take out other credit. 
Im sorry to hear about what Mr M has told us. But in the first instance it was open to Mr M to 
use some of the funds from this loan to reduce what he owed elsewhere. Secondly, its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. 
In Mr Ms case, Likely Loans checks didnt appear to indicate that Mr M might have been 
struggling and most importantly they did not suggest that £5,000.00 was a large amount for 
Mr M and that the sort of checks Mr M now insists should have been carried out, needed to 
be carried out at the time.
In these circumstances, given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious 
indicators of any recent difficulty in the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Ms 
bank statements. 
For the sake of completeness, I should add that at best, even if I were to accept that further 
checks were necessary, which Im not necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such 
checks would only have gone as far as finding out more about Mr Ms regular living costs. 
And I dont think that obtaining bank statements was the only way that Likely Loans could 
have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman