DRN-1728957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society sent the final response letter for 
a previous complaint to them by email, rather than using the secure messaging facility. 
Theyve said, amongst other things, that this is a breach of the general data protection 
regulation (GDPR) legislation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have had various complaints with Nationwide, one of which an ombudsman 
issued a final decision on in November 2019.
Whilst that complaint was with our service Mr and Mrs L complained to Nationwide that a 
final response letter had been emailed to them, rather than sent via the secure messaging 
facility.
The complaint had been raised in March 2019, and the final response letter was issued by 
post on 17 April 2019. Following chase-ups from Mr and Mrs L the letter was reissued by 
post, but as it still wasnt received it was sent to Mr Ls email address.
Mr and Mrs L complained about that to Nationwide in September 2019, saying the email 
contained details of their mortgage accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree saying:
I do not accept this because we were using the internal safe messaging and any 
halfwit would have realised, this was the safe way to send confidential details.
All my communication with Nationwide was all through the internal method which is 
safe, I received replies this way and through the mail. My Hotmail account was only 
ever used for them to send monthly reminders that my statement was ready, nothing 
else. Why they chose to break the rules is beyond me.
Postal copies were received eventually. I once asked for a new card reader, I 
reminded them after a week and two weeks later two card readers arrived. Was that 
my fault? You are obviously on their side so can you move on please.
Of course there has been a data breach, that is what the complaint is for. They 
should never have used the Hotmail address when they had a secure way to send it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaints essentially about how Nationwide handled Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, in that 
it emailed the final response letter to them rather than using the secure messaging facility. 
Its also about the security of Mr and Mrs Ls personal information, they say theres been a 
data breach and that Nationwide broke the rules.
Our powers are set out in our rules, known as the DISP Rules. These set out the matters 
that we can investigate as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, 
paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt 
enough to make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule  that is, one of the list 
of activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Mr and Mrs L are asking us to consider a complaint about the way Nationwide handled a 
complaint (in that the response was sent by email rather than by secure messaging). But I 
dont have any power to look at complaint handling in isolation. So, however strongly 
Mr and Mrs L feel about things, I simply cant consider a complaint about how Nationwide 
handled the complaint.
However, we can consider whether Mr and Mrs L have incurred a financial loss due to a data 
breach; that is, a complaint that Nationwide has mis-handled their personal data which has 
led to them suffering a financial loss. Mr and Mrs L have said Nationwide chose to break the 
rules and of course there has been a data breach.
Its not clear what rules Mr and Mrs L think Nationwide has broken, as theres nothing in the 
GDPR legislation or FCA rules that says communications cant be sent by email. In fact, 
many other financial institutions routinely use email in this way. Just because there is a 
secure messaging facility doesnt mean Nationwide did anything wrong in using email rather 
than that. On 9 May 2019, Mr L wrote in the secure messaging facility
I made a complaint on 14/03/19 tracking no 18136159
When will I get a reply or shall I proceed to the Ombudsman?
Please reply with safe message or email me.
So, in any event, Mr L gave his express permission to be contacted by email about the 
complaint. Nationwide sent the communication to Mr Ls (proven) email address and Mr L 
received it. Theres no evidence that the email was intercepted by any third party, and even 
if it was the information contained within the communication would not - in itself - give a third 
party access to the mortgage account such that they could do anything that would cause 
Mr and Mrs L a financial loss. But, as I said, theres no evidence any third party has 
accessed the communication anyway.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Nationwide didnt break any rules by sending the 
communication by email and Im not persuaded that there has been a data breach as theres 
no evidence that any unauthorised third party has accessed the communication.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman