DRN-2322115
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as K, complains about how American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) have dealt with its business interruption insurance claim.
Mrs G, who is a partner of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary 
of the main issues below.
In 2016 there was a fire at Ks business premises. K made a claim on its business 
interruption policy. AIG accepted the claim and made payment to K, but K doesnt think all of 
its losses have been met. There is a dispute about the payment made for loss of earnings 
and Mrs K doesnt think the fact the business had to increase its overdraft facility from 
£2,000 to £10,000 has been taken into account.
This service has previously considered a complaint about AIGs handling of the claim. The 
ombudsman in that case directed AIG to provide details to K of all the payments that have 
been made and what they were for. They also awarded K £750 compensation. 
In this decision I will concentrate on the remaining issues as set out above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Ks policy provides cover for loss of income for up to a maximum of two years after 
the insured event. I appreciate the fire has had a long-lasting impact on the business 
of K however having reviewed how AIG has calculated the payment for business 
interruption, Im satisfied it has done so in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. While Mrs G has referred to loss of earnings, I think this has been taken into 
consideration in the calculation AIG has made. 
K was sent a spreadsheet outlining all of the payments that have been made under 
the claim. I cant say why K may not have received that spreadsheet, but on the 
evidence available to me I can see it has been sent on at least two occasions by AIG.
K has argued its £10,000 overdraft is a consequence of the fire and getting the 
business back up and running while waiting for payments from AIG. It also doesnt 
think the payments it received fully reflected its losses, but it hasnt provided any 
specific detail of which payments it is querying. 
To see if there are any expenses K has incurred which havent already been 
accounted for AIG has requested copies of bank statements to be sent, or a detailed 
breakdown of the overdraft usage provided. It has also offered to send a 
representative to meet with the partners of K to go through the required information 
and answer any payment queries. I think this is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mrs G has said K doesnt operate at the level of detail required by AIG, 
however I cant say AIG has acted unreasonably by requesting it. It is for K to show it 
has incurred a loss which hasnt been covered so far.  The existence of the overdraft 
itself or the fact it had to be increased after the fire, doesnt conclusively show this.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ks complaint against American International Group 
UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman