DRN-3963436
The complaint
Miss G complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) incorrectly 
defaulted her loan account. Miss G also says she couldnt make the payment because the 
incorrect card details were stored on her online account. 
What happened
The issues Miss G has experienced stem from a loan she was advanced in September 2021 
for £500. She was due to make six monthly repayments between October 2021 and 
March 2022 of £162.14.
Ive set out below the key contact between Miss G and Shelby. These have been taken from 
the contact notes provided by Shelby as well as copies of the calls Shelby has provided  
which Ive listened to. Ive done this so both parties have it to hand and are therefore fully 
aware of the timeline of events. 
Miss G was due to make her first payment through direct debit on 1 October 2021, however 
this payment failed. But on the same day, she made a debit card payment. The 
1 November 2021 was made on time with a debit card. Miss G then didnt make her 
payments due on 1 December 2021 or 31 December 2021. Miss G then made a reduced 
repayment on 6 January 2022 for £100. 
On 6 January 2022, a payment arrangement was then set up to clear the total balance of the 
loan within four repayments. However, the first payment due under this plan  for £200 - was 
attempted to be taken on 1 February 2022, but this payment failed. Therefore, as the 
account was in arrears, Shelby issued a notice of default.
There was then a phone call between Shelby and Miss G whereby it explained that the 
payment was requested early in the morning whereas Miss G appears to have told Shelby 
the funds were only available in the afternoon. The repayment plan was also reset on this 
date. Miss G also made a manual payment of £200 on the call. 
Shelby attempted to take payment on 1 March 2022, but this was also declined. No further 
contact was made until Miss G called Shelby on 24 March 2022, and she provided some 
details of a change in her circumstances and the agent agreed to a seven-day account hold 
to allow Miss G to provide up to date information about her income. No new payment plan 
was agreed on this date. 
Miss G then called Shelby on 1 April 2021 and two payments were taken on the call of 
£160.10 followed by a payment of 60 pence. Miss G explained she was living with parents 
and her priority bills were up to date. A new repayment plan was agreed  to be paid on the 
third of each month at a rate of £150. Shelby says that on this call her card expiry date was 
changed because Miss G realised the card expiry date was incorrect. After the card was 
updated Shelbys agent explained future payments would be taken using the update to 
details. And, finally, should the payment not be made in May 2022 than the account will be 
defaulted.  
Miss G called Shelby on 5 April 2022, but this call couldnt proceed because according to the 
system notes  Miss G failed the security questions. But from the call notes Miss G did tell 
Shelby her card expiry details were still incorrect on her online portal. 
Shelby made a payment request of £150 on 3 May 2022  as agreed, but the payment failed 
and Shelbys notes show that as the payment wasnt made the default was applied to 
Miss Gs account on 5 May 2022.
On 16 May 2022 Miss G called and spoke to Shelby where she made a payment of £350 on 
the call and raised her complaint. One this call, she explained that she was locked out of her 
email account  which was attached to her Shelby account. This was an issue as the agent 
said a complaint couldnt be set up until a valid email address was provided. 
She also said she had previously called Shelby to move the payment date from 3 May 2022 
to 14 May 2022 because she was waiting for sick pay. Miss G said she sent in several 
emails and later she said she spoke to a number of different members of staff. She also 
said, the card details Shelby held for her were incorrect  her loan portal still showed an 
incorrect expiry date for her card. 
Shelbys contact note shows on the 16 May 2022 it attempted to call Miss G back but 
couldnt get through. 
Shelby issued its final response letter to Miss G on 26 May 2022 and Shelby didnt uphold 
her complaint. It explained:
the default notice was correctly issued and
there was no record of Miss G contacting Shelby to amend the payment date to 
14 May 2022. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss G referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Miss G explained she wanted the default removed and she provided an undated screen shot 
which she says shows her online account with the incorrect card expiry date  even though 
Shelby had said the card details had been updated. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and explained why she couldnt uphold it. She 
concluded the default had been recorded correctly, because the account was sufficiently in 
arrears and the payment plan was broken in May 2022. A default was consistent with the 
guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
The adjudicator also couldnt find any evidence that the May 2022 repayment date was 
changed, and she was satisfied, having listened to a call provided from Shelby for the 
1 April 2022, that the card details were updated, which enabled the payment to go through 
and Shelby confirmed future payments would be taken using this new updated information. 
Miss G didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised her comments below:
Miss G provided details of her working arrangement which included long shifts and 
as a result she couldnt call Shelby during office hours. 
Miss G says she didnt receive the emails Shelby sent her. She says most complaints 
are sent through recorded letters and shes had no problem receiving those in the 
past. 
In April 2022, Miss G caught COVID-19 and as a result her wages were impacted. 
Evidence had already been provided to show the app showed the wrong card 
details. The adjudicator responded to Miss Gs comments and explained why these hadnt changed 
her mind. She was still satisfied Shelby had tried to take the payment on 3 May 2022 using 
the updated card details. And Miss G had been warned that should the payment fail then the 
account would be marked as being in default. She also reiterated that there was no evidence 
that Miss G had attempted to change the May 2022 payment date. 
Miss G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. At the same time, 
she said had Shelby had the correct card details it wouldve stopped the account from 
defaulting. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman to make a decision. 
Further information was then sought from Miss G in the form of bank statements and from 
Shelby  which included the full contact notes and details about the card expiry date issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the available information and evidence I have decided not to uphold 
the complaint and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below. 
Its worth pointing out here, that for me to be able to recommend that Shelby does something 
to put things right for Miss G I have to be satisfied that it has made an error  that has led to 
a loss or caused material distress and inconvenience. In this case, having reviewed the 
information I have to hand, Ive decided to not uphold Miss Gs complaint and Ive explained 
why below. 
Default
When Miss G was advanced the loan, she signed a credit agreement which outlined the 
consequences of not paying the loan account on time:
Missing payments could have severe consequences. If you fail to pay your 
instalments in full and/or on time we will record this with a credit reference agency, 
which may make it more expensive or more difficult to obtain credit in the future.
As part of the application process, Miss G completed a direct debit mandate form, and I can 
see from the statement of account the payment in October 2021, was requested by direct 
debit, but returned and so Miss G made a manual payment. She also successful paid her 
November 2021 payment on time. 
However, she didnt make any payments at all in December 2021  which was to cover two 
payments that were due. And while, Miss G did make a payment in January 2021, this was 
for a reduced amount, and so pushed the account further into arrears. 
Miss G then agreed a repayment plan with Shelby but the first payment was missed  and 
she also didnt make the February 2022 contractual repayment and as a result Shelby 
issued a notice of default. 
I have seen that Shelby emailed a copy of the notice to the email address it held for her at 
this time. There is some suggestion in a later system note and phone call that Miss G was 
locked out of the email address Shelby used  but it wasnt to know this at the time. The email also made it clear the notice was available on her online account portal and it also said 
the notice would be posted to her. 
I appreciate Miss G says perhaps it ought to have been posted recorded delivery but there 
was no requirement for Shelby to do that. Im satisfied, given the copy of the notice that has 
been provided  through an appropriate medium and the system notes provided that it was 
sent. I therefore cant conclude Shelby hadnt complied with its obligation to tell Miss G a 
default notice had been sent. 
No payment was made at all towards the loan in March 2022 and less than the contractual 
repayment was made in April 2022. And, as has been shown by the timeline at the start of 
the decision the May 2022 payment plan also failed. At which point, Shelby recorded a 
default on Miss Gs credit file. 
In order to assess, whether Shelby was correct in defaulting the account, like the adjudicator 
Ive considered the ICO guidance  which can be found in the paper called Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies  this is 
considered good industry practice so its reasonable to see what the ICO says and then 
apply the guidance in this case. Principle 2 of the ICO guidance says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears.
If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may 
result in the lender taking some form of action.
The ICO does envisaged that if payments arent made details of this can be reported to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). And should this continue than further action can be taken. 
Principle 3, of the guidance explains that payment plans can be agreed  so this would allow 
a consumer to deviate from the payment schedule in the credit agreement. But the ICO is 
clear  this deviation will be reported to the CRAs. Principle 4 deals with reporting of a 
default to the CRAs  it says
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
So, when the February 2022 payment failed, and Miss G having paid a reduced amount in 
January 2022 her account was at least three months in arrears  and so in a position to 
have a default notice issued. 
Although, I accept, that Miss G did make up the payment. But as the payment had been 
missed  it seems the default notice had already been sent. In line with the ICO guidance, 
the account was sufficiently in arrears to issue such a notice. Then no payment was made in March 2022, but a new plan was put in place in 
April 2022. The account was still in arrears because of the missed payments in 
December 2021 and March 2022 and the reduced payment in January 2022.
On the call when the payment plan was set up - 1 April 2022, Miss G`s card details were 
updated and the agent confirmed this had happened  this enabled the payment recorded as 
being made on this date to go through. In addition, the agent did inform Miss G that should 
this current plan be broken than Shelby would default the account. 
As a new plan was agreed in April 2022, this wouldve prevented the default from being 
applied at the time. However, as the May 2022 payment failed  perhaps due to insufficient 
funds  than in line with the ICO guidance, as the account was sufficiently in arrears and a 
payment plan had been broken Shelby was entitled to default the account with the CRAs. 
Which is what it did on 5 May 2022.
Finally, Ive reviewed the system notes and there is no evidence to show Miss G asked for 
the 3 May 2022 payment to be moved to 14 May 2022. Miss G says she spoke to a number 
of members of staff, but according to the contact notes provided by Shelby, there were no 
calls or any contacted logged between 5 April 2022 and 16 May 2022. Ive also not seen 
anything from Miss G which suggested the payment date was changed.  
On balance, it was right and correct of Shelby to attempt to make the payment on 
3 May 2022 because this is the date that Miss G asked for the payment to be taken on 
1 April 2022 phone call. And as the payment arrangement broke  because the payment 
was unsuccessful it is reasonable that Shelby records the default with the CRAs. 
I do not uphold this element of Miss Gs complaint. 
Card payment and details 
Ive then gone onto look at the card details - this is important because Miss G says had the 
card details been updated than Shelby wouldve taken the payment with the correct 
information. 
Firstly, in the final response letter, Shelby gave Miss G the opportunity to come back with 
any more information about the card expiry issue  and Shelby says it didnt receive 
anything else from her. But not withstanding that request, Miss G says her account was 
showing the card expiry date was 12/26 whereas Miss G says it ought to be 03/26. 
This issue was highlighted on a call with Shelby on 1 April 2022. A copy of which has been 
provided and Ive listened to it. Shelby confirmed on this call that her card details were 
updated and the payment  due on 3 May 2022 would use the updated card information. 
But Miss G has provided a screen shot  showing the outstanding balance on her account 
was zero and so on balance, this screen shot was taken after this payment was made on 16 
May 2022, and shows the card details as incorrect, despite Shelby saying the account was 
updated. 
Indeed, a system screen shot has been provided by Shelby which shows a conflict with 
card details. Shelby says this sometimes occurs on its payment system where the updated 
card information has the same card number  but where there is a different expiry date. 
Given this appears to have been the situation here  I think this is further evidence that the 
card details were updated, as Miss G requested on 1 April 2022. Unfortunately, Shelby says it cant provide evidence  in the form of the payment request to 
show that the payment request on 3 May 2022, was definitely made with the updated expiry 
date. Shelby has provided system notes to show the payment was declined on 
3 May 2022 being told Do Not Honour.  However, given Im satisfied the system was 
updated on 1 April 2022, on balance, it is more likely than not that the request was made 
using the correct card details. 
On the call Miss G made to Shelby on 16 May 2022  she explained the expiry date has 
been updated when she checked a couple days before. But by the end of call, Miss G said 
the incorrect expiry date was still showing on her online account. It isnt clear why there is 
this conflict. 
Miss G said she tried to make the payment a couple of days before the 16 May 202). 
However, when Miss G was trying to make the payment at that point in time it was already 
too late - as the payment needed to have been on or before 3 May 2022  for the reasons 
that Ive outlined above. So even though the card details may have been showing as 
incorrect on the portal this wouldve made no difference to the default  as it had already 
been applied. 
In any event, Im satisfied, that on balance, Shelby requested payment on the correct date, 
using the correct card payment information and this payment was rejected. And therefore, 
Miss G was in breach of her payment arrangement, and as the account was sufficiently in 
arrears, it was correct and right for Shelby to have defaulted the account  given the well-
established approach. 
Miss G has provided her bank statements and I can see on 3 May 2022, there was, at least 
by the end of the day sufficient money to be able to afford the payment Shelby was due to 
take. But, looking at the payment details the request was made at 7 oclock in the morning 
and so its possible at the time the funds were requested Miss G didnt have sufficient funds 
in her account. Her bank statements show at some point on 3 May 2022 she was in her 
overdraft. Whereas, at one point on the same day she had a credit balance  sufficient 
enough to have honoured the payment. So, its possible these that funds werent transferred 
into the account after Shelby had made the payment request. 
Overall, Im satisfied that on balance, Shelby requested the payment for the plan on the 
agreed date of 3 May 2022  using the correct card details. As Ive explained, there is no 
evidence to show Shelby agreed to move the repayment date. I also accept that Miss Gs 
details on the portal were still incorrect by 16 May 2022 but even at that point it was too late 
to prevent the default from being applied, because Miss G had missed her payment on 
3 May 2022. 
I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint and I appreciate she will be disappointed by this 
outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I am not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman