DRN-2542141
The complaint
Miss T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a transaction on her 
current account which she says was unauthorised.
What happened
Miss T holds a current account with NatWest. In May 2020, she raised a fraud claim relating 
to five payments made via a money remittance firm (W). NatWest says the transactions were 
authorised using Apple Pay, but it agreed it to refund them  totalling £260.98. It also 
ordered her a new card, and I understand that Apple Pay was removed from her phone.
In June 2020, Miss T raised another fraud claim for a £51.99 payment made via W. NatWest 
didnt agree to refund this. The payment was again authenticated on Apple Pay, so it thought 
the payment must have been made using Miss Ts phone with her knowledge or permission. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted there were some variances in the 
explanation Miss T gave us and NatWest about whether she used Apple Pay, whether she 
lost her phone, and whether she shared/stored her security details. On balance, he 
considered it more likely that the payment had been made by Miss T or someone shed 
shared her details with. So he didnt think NatWest should refund the transaction.
Miss T disagrees. She says she didnt authorise the transaction or share her PIN and 
password, so thinks she should get a full refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, NatWest can hold Miss T liable for the 
payment if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised it 
herself. That means NatWest needs to show that the payment was authenticated via 
Miss Ts personalised security credentials and payment instruction, and that she consented 
to it being made. 
Miss T can also be held liable for the payment, even if unauthorised, if she failed with intent 
or gross negligence to take reasonable steps to keep her personalised security details safe; 
failed to use her payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing 
its issue and use; or failed to notify the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of 
the instrument without undue delay. These regulatory requirements are also reflected in the 
terms and conditions of her account. So, for example, if Miss T deliberately shared her 
details with someone else, and they used those to make the payment  even without her 
permission  shed be held liable. 
Im satisfied the payment was authenticated using personalised security credentials and a 
NatWest-approved payment instruction, namely Apple Pay. This involved using a passcode 
sent by text to set up Apple Pay on Miss Ts phone, her card details being registered, and 
then the payment being requested through that service. It looks like a code was sent to her 
phone to do this. So far as were reasonably aware, Apple Pay is secure, utilising a 
passcode known only to the accountholder and/or unique personal identifiers such as 
fingerprints, a PIN, or Face ID technology.
What seems to be in dispute here is whether Miss T consented to the payment. To reach a 
conclusion about whether Miss T, or someone acting with her authority, made the payment, 
Ive considered what shes told us about what happened. Ive also considered the banks 
records, including the call recordings of her disputing the transaction. 
During the calls, Miss T said she didnt use Apple Pay. But she confirmed that shed made a 
payment to Argos a few days before the disputed transaction. This was done via Apple Pay, 
on the same date it was reinstalled on her phone. Miss T has since told our investigator that 
her sister-in-law, who knew her PIN for her phone and bank account, made the payment to 
Argos with her permission. This contradicts what she told NatWest when it asked about the 
Argos transaction; she said no one else had access to her phone or knew her details and 
that she made the payment. Either way, Miss T had Apple Pay on her phone and had either 
used it herself or given someone else permission to use it. 
Miss T also told NatWest that no one had access to her phone and card, and they were both 
still in her possession. She said the phone was password protected, no one knew her 
passwords, and her details werent written down anywhere outside her home. But when she 
referred the matter to our service, she said in her complaint form that her phone went 
missing and her details were on there. When our investigator spoke to Miss T, she then said 
she had her phone at the time  but her card was missing. So again, there are discrepancies 
in what Miss T has said about what happened. 
Our investigator pointed out that a new card was sent when Miss T reported each fraud 
claim, which could explain some of the confusion. The card was also registered to Apple 
Pay, which was used to make the Argos payment  which Miss T hasnt disputed and was 
made prior to the payment shes disputing. So on balance, it seems more likely that she had 
her card at the time. 
In all the circumstances, it seems unlikely that an unknown person made these transactions 
without Miss Ts knowledge or permission. Although Miss T says a fraudulent business loan 
was taken out in her name, its unclear how this relates to the payment in question. She also 
says an account was set up with W in her name, which theyve now closed down. But she 
hasnt provided much detail about this. In any event, I cant identify a credible opportunity for 
an unknown person to have found out her security details, then accessed and returned her 
phone  as they wouldve needed to do to make the payment.
Ive also considered whether the transaction was made by a person known to Miss T  but 
without her permission. Shes mentioned that she only lives with her father, and she does 
keep some security details in her wardrobe. But she says she isnt suspicious that a known 
person made the transaction and hasnt shared her details with anyone. 
Im aware that, at one point, Miss T has contradicted that no one else knew her details. She 
told our investigator her sister-in-law knew her phone and banking PIN and used those 
details to make the payment to Argos. But she now denies this. And if the transaction was 
made due to Miss T directly sharing her details, for the reasons given above (i.e. failing with 
intent or gross negligence to keep things secure), it wouldnt be fair to expect NatWest to 
refund this. In any event, not only would a known person have needed Miss Ts security details to make 
the payment, they wouldve also needed physical access to her phone. NatWest has 
checked and confirmed that the phone is the only device on which Apple Pay is set up using 
Miss Ts card number. But Miss T has most consistently said that she had her phone at the 
time. Thats what she told NatWest when she called, when Id expect her recollections to be 
most fresh and reliable. So, on balance, it seems more likely that she did have her phone. 
Overall, I cant say for sure what happened  but I only have to reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. Given the discrepancies in what Miss T has said about what 
happened, and the lack of explanation for how someone else could have made the 
transaction without her knowledge of permission, I dont consider it fair to direct NatWest to 
reimburse her for this payment. I know this will be disappointing for Miss T but, based on the 
evidence, I cant safely conclude that NatWest was wrong to hold her liable for this payment. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given about, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman