DRN-4150855
The complaint
Mrs M complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) misdiagnosis, following a claim under 
her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs M had a leak at her home. She contacted UKI and made a claim. It sent an engineer to 
repair the leak. He advised that the leak came from a water softener and disconnected it. 
UKI also advised Mrs M to get a further independent engineer, as the repair it had carried 
out was only temporary. 
Mrs M said that following the engineer visit she went on holiday, so didnt have time to have 
it looked at. When she returned around six weeks later, she found that there was a leak in 
her home, which had caused further damage. She contacted UKI and complained, as she 
said that the original leak hadnt come from the water softener at all. And the UKI engineer 
had misdiagnosed the origin of the leak, which consequently meant that the damage that 
was caused to her property, was UKIs fault. 
UKI said that Mrs M asked for compensation for the stress and the misdiagnosis, of a 
minimum of £500. She also wasnt willing to pay the excess on the claim of £450.
In its final response, UKI said that each claim carried an excess charge of £450, and as Mrs 
M had made a claim which it had accepted, the excess charge was payable. 
It accepted that there was the misdiagnosis of the leak and for this it offered and paid Mrs M 
£150 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. Mrs M was dissatisfied with the 
outcome and as she had been given her referral rights, referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that UKI had been correct to request the excess payment. He also said that UKI had 
provided evidence that there had been damage caused by the leak already. So, even if the 
leak had been diagnosed correctly, the excess would be payable. 
He also said Mrs M didnt have the leak checked, as she had been advised to, for six weeks. 
So, he wasnt persuaded that all the damage that had now been caused to Mrs Ms property, 
was solely due to the misdiagnosis. Consequently, he said that the offer of £150 
compensation was fair. 
UKI accepted the view, Mrs M did not. She said that as a result of the leak significant 
damage was caused to her home that required extensive drying out, as well as replacement 
of flooring. She also said that this had caused her stress, due to the state of her home, but 
also due to her age, and her health issues. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs M, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision and why I think it is fair. 
Both parties agree that there had been a misdiagnosis of the leak. And Mrs M has now 
accepted that the excess of £450 is payable. So, the issue of this complaint is whether the 
compensation paid by UKI, of £150, for the trouble and upset caused, ought to be increased. 
Mrs M would like a minimum of £500 compensation, given the stress the event has had on 
her. So, Ive had a look into this. 
UKI said that Mrs M initially made a claim and it advised Mrs M to get someone to have a 
look at the leak, given that the disconnection of the water softener was effectively a 
temporary repair.  It also provided evidence that Mrs M had informed them that there was 
damage to her home as a result of the leak, prior to its engineer attending. And that for 
around six weeks after its engineer attended, Mrs M failed to contact them to advise of the 
ongoing leak. Nor did Mrs M answer a follow-up call from UKI after its engineer had 
attended. 
Mrs M said that she had gone on holiday and as UKI had carried out the repair, she didnt 
have enough time to contact another engineer. She said that when she returned, she 
discovered damage to her property caused by a leak. She also said that as the water 
softener had been disconnected and as she explained, removed from her home, this could 
not have been the cause of the leak. 
I have read the policy terms and conditions and it states: when you find out about anything 
you need to claim for, or may need to claim for, you must tell us as soon as possible. Mrs M 
said that she didnt report the ongoing leak until around six weeks after UKIs engineer 
attended. Whilst I appreciate that she had gone on holiday, she also didnt follow the advice 
of UKI by getting another engineer to look at it, before she went abroad. 
Mrs M said that it was clear that the leak wasnt from the water softener as it had been 
disconnected and she had it removed from her home. But there is no dispute that there had 
been a misdiagnosis, as UKI accept this was done. The issue is the amount of damage 
caused. And I think that as Mrs M hadnt got someone else in, as advised by UKI and that 
there had already been damage to her property prior to UKIs engineer attending, Im 
satisfied that the damage caused by the misdiagnosis cant entirely be attributed to UKI. 
Ive next considered whether the £150 compensation that UKI paid for the trouble and upset 
caused was fair. And I think it was and Ill explain why. 
UKI accepted that there was a misdiagnosis as it said that it was clear that the leak wasnt 
from the water softener. When we look at awards for compensation, we look at the impact of 
the error made by the business on the consumer.  
In this complaint, I find that the impact was more than just minimal and that it caused some 
distress and inconvenience. As I have already said, Im not satisfied that the misdiagnosis 
was entirely the fault of UKI. And having considered our guidelines on compensation, the 
£150 offered and paid, falls within our recommended compensation awards. Overall, whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs M will be, I think that UKI was fair and 
reasonable in its offer of compensation. And I think that the damage caused by the 
misdiagnosis isnt entirely the fault of UKI. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask UKI to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman