DRN-4013217
The complaint
Miss L, with the assistance of her representative, complains that Leeds Building Society 
(LBS) has treated her unfairly when not allowing her to change the interest rate on her 
mortgage account over a number of years. 
What happened
Miss L took a mortgage with LBS in 2008. She borrowed £142,680.98 with the borrowing on 
an interest only basis. The mortgage had an initial fixed rate of 4.99% which was in place 
until 31 March 2010, after this point the rate reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR)  
this changed over time but at the time of the mortgage offer was 7.5%. 
Miss Ls mortgage with LBS moved to the SVR at the end of March 2010 and remained on 
this until her complaint was raised in October 2021. After this her mortgage was moved to a 
fixed rate product at a rate of 2.19% fixed until 21 March 2024.
Miss L has been in touch with LBS at a number of different points since the mortgage was 
taken out. Ive not listed the details of all conversations here as Miss L and LBS are aware of 
the history. But in summary, from 2009 onwards, Miss L notified LBS of the times when her 
finances changed and she was struggling to meet the contractual monthly payments for the 
mortgage. As a result, there has been times when Miss L has had arrears on her mortgage 
when payments were missed or lower than the contractual amount was paid. She asked 
during these conversations whether LBS was able to assist with reducing the monthly 
payment amount. 
Our investigator looked at Miss Ls complaint and said that he didnt think this service could 
consider all of the years that Miss L was complaining about. He explained this service 
cannot consider a complaint which is made about an event, more than six years after the 
event complained about happened. Or if later, more than three years from the date when the 
complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they had 
cause to complain. This service can only consider a complaint brought late if the business 
consents, or because we feel the reason for the delay is the result of exceptional 
circumstances. LBS didnt consent to us considering all of the years complained about and 
our investigator didnt think there was any exceptional circumstances which meant Miss L 
couldnt bring her complaint sooner. 
He said because the complaint was raised on 12 October 2021, he could consider how LBS 
treated Miss L from 1 October 2015 and whether it should have offered her a lower rate 
during this time. He didnt think the three-year part of the rule extended this and the focus of 
his view and LBSs treatment of Miss L was from this point onwards.
Our investigator also said a complaint about the sale and the advice given at the time would 
be the responsibility of the broker and not LBS.
In July 2016, Miss L asked if there was a better interest rate that she could move to. LBS 
said it could consider this request, but because the mortgage had arrears on it, this would 
need to be agreed at management level. It asked Miss L to provide details on her income 
and expenditure so it could determine if a change was affordable. Our investigator didnt 
think it was unreasonable for LBS to ask for this information, especially as Miss L said during 
the request that her situation had changed and her income was due to reduce. 
However, our investigator also thought the repayment history should have been given more 
consideration at this point. He said Miss L had met her monthly payment since September 
2015, so had almost 12 months payment history meeting the contractual monthly payment 
amount. He said this indicated she could maintain the payments at the previous rate on the 
account, so a lower rate and lower contractual repayment amount would have likely been 
affordable.  So even though Miss Ls budget planner and projected figures didnt match what 
her bank statements showed her spending to be, he didnt think the concerns LBS had about 
affordability were justified. He said LBS didnt treat Miss L fairly when it failed to allow her to 
complete a product transfer.
He said to put things right, LBS should rework Miss Ls mortgage to reflect a 2-year fixed 
mortgage from 20 July 2016. If this resulted in overpayments to be refunded, it should give 
Miss L the choice of having the mortgage reduced by the overpayment balance, or the 
money refunded plus 8% interest. He recognised there was concerns about the property 
potentially being in negative equity and so the rates on offer would reflect this. 
He didnt think LBS needed to do anything else for the years after this. He listened to the 
calls Miss L had with LBS in March 2018 when LBS discussed the options Miss L had to 
change the interest rate on her mortgage. She was given a number of options but Miss L 
explained she was looking to sell her property in the near future. Miss L was given 
information about the possibility of moving her mortgage from her existing home to a new 
one if she sold (porting the mortgage), but LBS couldnt confirm the outcome of an 
application to do this until one was made. 
LBS also spoke about the potential early repayment charges (ERCs) that might be applied if 
Miss L sold her property and needed to redeem the mortgage earlier than the product term. 
Miss L said she needed to think about her options and discuss these with her friend but 
didnt take out a new product. 
Our investigator felt LBS gave Miss L correct information about her options in March 2018.  
Miss L didnt sell her property and didnt speak to LBS about a new interest rate again until 
2021 when she moved to a new product, our investigator was satisfied that LBS hadnt done 
anything to suggest alternative rates werent available or that Miss L wouldnt be eligible for 
one. So he didnt think it needed to do anything after the mortgage adjustment 
recommended already. 
LBS disagreed with the assessment. It said it wasnt reasonable to say that it should have 
allowed Miss L to move to a new interest rate without completing an affordability assessment 
in 2016. 
LBS highlighted that Miss L had been in arrears on her mortgage, to varying degrees, from 
2013. And when she contacted it to discuss her repayments in March 2016, Miss L had 
explained her financial situation was going to change as her ex-partner was no longer able 
to pay child maintenance. It felt it was fair to conduct an affordability assessment based on 
the request and it felt the returned information didnt support that Miss L could afford the 
mortgage repayments. Because it was indicated that the statements provided had higher 
one-off expenses attached due to a birthday, LBS asked for the information to be 
resubmitted with up-to-date bank statements, but this wasnt provided. 
In April 2017 Miss L asked about a new rate again. Her mortgage was still in arrears at this 
point and Aprils contractual payment was missed, being paid late in May 2017. LBS asked that she complete a budget planner to consider a product transfer but Miss L didnt want to 
complete this and she remained on the SVR because it wasnt provided with enough 
information to confirm if a product transfer was available.
LBS said if a customer is in financial difficulty, it has a regulatory responsibility to establish 
the customers circumstances prior to offering a new product. This is something it is required 
to do as a responsible lender. It risked making Miss Ls situation worse if a product was 
offered that wasnt suitable and doesnt believe it acted unfairly when looking for further 
clarification on Miss Ls income and expenditure based on her circumstances at the time.
Miss L and her representative responded and accepted that we cant consider all of the 
years complained about. She also accepted the recommendation made to rework the 
mortgage from 2016. But she disagreed that LBS had acted fairly after this.
Miss L said, had she been on a fixed rate from 2016 until 2018, it is more likely she would 
have moved to another fixed rate in 2018. So the result of this not happening also impacted 
her decision in 2018 and what she did here, when a rate swap was available. And her 
representative felt that although the call handler with LBS in 2018 may not have been trying 
to scare Miss L to stay on the SVR, he was not fully aware or empathetic to her situation and 
desire to get a better rate for the good of her family. 
They asked if the complaint could be split  to speed up the resolution of the 2016 parts of 
the complaint  with which they agreed  allowing time to focus on the events after this rate 
would have expired. 
Our investigators opinion on the complaint remained unchanged and because LBS 
disagreed with the outcome recommended, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. The case has not been split and is considered as one still.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 February 2023. I explained that I was 
planning on reaching a different outcome to that of our investigator. So the provisional 
decision allowed both sides the chance to respond ahead of my final decision.  Ive copied 
what I said below:
Im not planning on upholding this complaint. I know Miss L will be disappointed by this 
change in outcome, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
Neither Miss L or LBS disagree that LBS isnt responsible for the  advice at the point of sale 
for the mortgage. And there is agreement that we can only consider the events complained 
about within six years from the date of the complaint being raised. Anything complained 
about before this has been brought too late for our consideration. So for clarity, Ive focused 
on LBSs actions and its treatment of Miss L from October 2015 onwards and her requests 
for assistance with her repayment amounts and interest rate changes. In doing so, Ive 
looked at the actions it took when it didnt offer a product transfer to Miss L and whether it 
acted fairly when it did.
When LBS didnt offer a product transfer
LBS says it didnt ever say no to Miss Ls request to transfer the interest rate of her 
mortgage to a new product. But it needed to ask for information and assess her 
circumstances before it could make a decision.LBS feels it treated Miss L fairly when it requested further information from her in 2016 to 
help clarify her income and expenditure. Miss L notified LBS that her financial situation was 
likely to change with a drop in income expected. LBS felt this, together with Miss Ls 
repayment history and outstanding arrears on the account, meant it needed to seek further 
clarification before it could decide to offer a product transfer or not.
With Miss Ls circumstances and the fact she told LBS she was expecting a reduction in her 
income, it is reasonable to check that any change was affordable and not going to lead to 
Miss Ls situation being made worse. 
Miss L provided a completed budget planner and bank statements but the information didnt 
show Miss L could afford the mortgage. The budget planner showed considerably less 
spending than her bank statements for this period. LBS said it needed the information to be 
submitted again so it could determine that a product transfer was suitable and it was acting 
responsibly. I dont think LBS was wrong to request this again. Miss Ls mortgage at different 
points over the years had missed payments or paid less than the contractual monthly 
payment amount. This had led to arrears of varying degrees over the years and it was right 
that LBS took steps to make sure it was acting responsibly. 
Our investigator explained Miss L had maintained her monthly payment for almost a full year 
in July 2016, so she had demonstrated the monthly payment was affordable and a reduction 
in this may have allowed her to repay any arrears balance sooner. But it is understandable 
why, even if the borrowing wasnt changing, LBS had concerns over whether the monthly 
payment was affordable. And it didnt say no to the product transfer in July 2016 but asked 
for information to clarify what was submitted previously. When this didnt happen, Miss Ls 
mortgage continued on the SVR and I dont think LBS did anything wrong it not offering the 
product transfer without the information it requested being returned.
Equally, I dont think LBS acted unfairly when it requested similar information from Miss L in 
April 2017. She missed the contractual monthly payment for the mortgage in April 2017 and 
although indicating she expected her income to increase later that year, I think LBS was 
acting fairly when asking for a budget planner to be completed before a product transfer 
could be agreed. It advised she could also call back in 6 months once her finances were 
better too and I dont think this was unreasonable either. Her mortgage continued to run with 
arrears on it and she was hoping to reduce these as her income increased, but it wasnt 
unreasonable to request information about her affordability if she wanted to change the 
product sooner.
With LBSs responsibility to ensure it isnt placing a customer into a worse position then they 
were previously when offering new products, it shouldnt tie customers to a new product with 
a fixed interest rate if an ERC would need to be paid before the product term ended. As 
Miss L had explained her income was reducing, I think LBS was acting fairly requesting 
information to understand that it wasnt going to make her situation worse. If she ended up 
needing to sell  her property before the term ended because of financial difficulties, these 
would be added to with the ERC needing to be repaid. And asking for information to confirm 
her income and expenditure before agreeing a change is normal in the industry and 
something Id expect to see with Miss Ls circumstances. 
I think LBS has demonstrated that it has, at different points, tried to assist Miss L with her 
mortgage repayments and looked to see if a product transfer could be offered. It requested 
information that I think it was reasonable to ask for, based on Miss Ls circumstances and 
when this wasnt provided, it wasnt able to conclude whether a product transfer was 
suitable.
When the product transfer was offeredIn March 2018, Miss L was offered a product transfer when she called to discuss her options 
with LBS. Miss L didnt take a new product at this point and she feels the adviser failed to 
show the right level of support to help her do what would have been best for her at the time.
Ive listened to the call and think LBS and its agent acted fairly, giving Miss L the information 
she needed to decide what was best for her. 
Miss L explained she might be selling her property in the near future so discussions were 
had about porting the mortgage, explaining this as an option and that it wouldnt be a 
guarantee. If it couldnt be ported, an ERC would be incurred if the mortgage needed to be 
repaid ahead of the product term ending.
Miss L made it clear she was looking to reduce what she was paying in interest and a desire 
to start to repay the capital if she could. She understood the rate she was on in comparison 
to the fixed rate applicable to her house was considerably higher and that there were options 
to move to a fixed rate and pay less per month while still repaying the balance of the 
mortgage.
The adviser ran through illustrative figures and explained how the monthly repayment could 
change if the overall term of the mortgage was extended or reduced. Miss L said she wanted 
to speak with her friend about the options available and the adviser explained he was happy 
to share information with them too, with a view of helping Miss L get what was right for her. 
So I dont think there is any indication that the adviser wasnt providing Miss L with all the 
information she asked for, or that they tried to keep her on the SVR. 
Overall, Miss L was given information to confirm how much her mortgage could be if a 
product transfer was completed with both interest only and capital repayment options. Im 
not sure why Miss L didnt go back to LBS sooner to take up the offered rate, but Ive seen 
nothing to show LBS acted unfairly during this call. 
LBS didnt provide a response to the provisional decision. 
Both Miss L and her representative responded to explain why they disagree with the 
outcome. They explained that over the course of many years, LBS had failed to help Miss L, 
despite her asking for help on numerous occasions.  
Miss Ls representative feels this is in contradiction to LBSs mission statement and it is 
common sense that if Miss L was maintaining her payments before, then a lower interest 
rate only made this more likely. And there are systemic issues with LBS and its failings with 
customer service. He feels Ive only considered process and procedure in the provisional 
decision and my thought process failed to acknowledge how LBS made Miss L feel. Overall, 
the lack of care given with the customer service and the impact of this has been missed and 
LBS should have recognised it needed to do more to support Miss L because of her 
circumstances and when she was able to ask for help, it ignored these requests.
Miss L highlighted in some detail how she was made to feel during the call in 2016 when 
LBS asked for clarification on the income expenditure. Im grateful for her taking the time to 
explain this and it is clear the impact this has had. 
Miss L said the member of staff she spoke with in 2016 left her feeling like a liar, with no 
support or empathy. She says she did not realise that the budget planner needed to be 
completed as accurately as LBS expected and the way she was questioned over the 
answers made Miss L feel uncomfortable and scrutinised. 
Miss L says she had completed budget planners before for her IVA and these didnt require the same level of detail. So when challenged on pounds and pence spending on daily items, 
she felt like LBS was treating her unfairly. Overall, she said the treatment of the staff 
member when she spoke to them in 2016 was so poor that it left her feeling like there was 
no point in providing it information as it was unlikely to provide the support and help she 
wanted.
As both LBS and Miss L have had the chance to respond to my provisional decision, the 
case has been passed back to me to reconsider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed both the information already provided for this complaint and the comments 
Miss L and her representative have provided, including listening to the calls made to this 
service with more information. Having done so, Ive not seen anything which has persuaded 
me to depart from the outcome I reached in the provisional decision and am not upholding 
Miss Ls complaint. I know this isnt the outcome she is hoping for but Ill explain why this is 
the case. 
Im sorry if Miss L and her representative feel that my decision has been focused on 
procedures and rules and failed to see the person that sits behind this. This is not the 
intention, but it is important as a starting point to ensure that a business has acted in line 
with the rules which govern what they need to do. And while we have a fair and reasonable 
remit, rules and procedure are considered alongside this.
Miss L and her representative have highlighted their original complaint point, that if Miss L 
could afford the previous rate on her mortgage in 2016, it follows that a rate switch to a lower 
interest rate would be affordable. And so LBS was treating Miss L unfairly when it didnt 
accept this without further information. 
I agree this as a starting point is logical and even with the small arrears outstanding on the 
mortgage, it may have been fair to expect LBS to do something else without the need to 
assess Miss Ls income and expenditure again. But Miss L let LBS know when she spoke 
with it that her income was due to drop. So her circumstances were changing and previous 
actions couldnt be relied on as being repeated without question. As Ive said before, LBS 
has an obligation to make sure it isnt making a customers situation worse and acts 
responsibly when lending. Previous payments cannot be taken to show the future ones 
would be maintained and as Miss Ls income was dropping, I think LBS acted fairly in asking 
her to confirm her income and expenditure.
Miss L has said the level of detail that she gave was in line with the level of detail provided in 
previous income and expenditure forms shes completed before and she didnt realise the 
level of detail and accuracy needed by LBS. I know she was upset when this was questioned 
but I dont think LBS was wrong to ask for an accurate reflection of her normal spending. 
With the disparity in her normal spending in the months bank statements provided, it was fair 
to ask for this information to be provided again to show it was one off expenditure and not 
regular spending. I appreciate the pressure Miss L says she felt because of how this was 
phrased and that for her to find the time to speak with LBS about her mortgage was difficult, 
but I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect it to waive further checks when the initial 
ones, that I think it was right to carry out, didnt confirm the affordability. And it was better to 
ask for this information again over rejecting the application. I understand that Miss Ls representative feels there is a systemic issue with LBS and its 
customer service and the combination of years of poor service has meant Miss L has lost 
out. Shes been unable to give her mortgage much consideration over the years due to the 
time pressure on her as a single parent and when she has reached out for help, she feels 
these requests were ignored or not met with the right level of empathy and compassion. 
Ive not been able to listen to the phone call Miss L had in 2016 when she says the staff 
member left her feeling judged and like a liar, unfortunately this isnt a call that LBS has 
available due to the passage of time. But Ive been able to listen to the calls Miss L had with 
LBS in 2018 when it first offered an interest rate switch. 
In 2018, the adviser provided Miss L with clear information about her options and the costs 
of these and the pros and cons attached to taking a new fixed rate product. The 
conversation took place over four phone calls as the call dropped a number of times and at 
each point, the adviser made it clear they were looking to make sure Miss L did what was in 
her best interest. Based on this, I think the adviser was supportive and after giving Miss L 
the information she needed, encouraged her to talk through the options with her friend.  
Having listened to these calls, I dont think it would be reasonable to say that there is a 
systemic issue with LBS and its customer service  not least because the outcome of one 
case cannot be taken to demonstrate a systemic failing across LBS as a whole. The service 
on the calls Ive been provided with hasnt raised any concerns that could point to a wider 
issue. And I dont think it can be taken as a customer service failing when, informed that 
Miss Ls income was due to reduce, LBS looked to make sure any change to her mortgage 
product was affordable and not at risk of making her situation worse.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that the decision I set out in my provisional 
findings should change. I dont think LBS has treated Miss L unfairly when it asked for 
information about her income and expenditure and when this was provided but didnt match 
up with the supporting bank statements, it was fair to ask for this again.
It later offered a new product with different interest rates and spent time running through all 
of the options available to Miss L but she declined to take up any of these options. I dont 
think it would be fair to say this was because of LBS looking to dissuade her from either 
option as the information provided was correct and was provided to make sure she was able 
to make an informed choice.
In conclusion, Im satisfied LBS hasnt acted unfairly when it failed to provide Miss L an 
interest rate swap sooner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman