DRN-3380707
The complaint
Mrs C complained the cost of her home insurance policy was unfairly increased by Hiscox 
Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) mid-way through the policy term.
What happened
When Mrs C took out a home insurance policy with Hiscox at a cost of £2,992.58, it was 
based on upon her declaring that she had made one claim in the previous five years. Part 
way through the year, Mrs C made a claim on the policy.
As part of the claims process, Hiscox reviewed the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) and identified that Mrs C had also made a claim within the last five years under the 
home emergency section of her policy with her previous insurer. Based on this new 
information, Hiscox decided to increase Mrs Cs premium for the year to £3,556.97 part way 
through the policy term  it said this is what it wouldve charged Mrs C at the start of the 
policy if it had received all the information about her claims. Mrs C felt she had no option but 
to pay the £564.39 difference to ensure her house was still covered whilst she had building 
works going on.
Mrs C said when she took out her policy, she was never asked whether she had any 
emergency claims. She also challenged that a claim had been made at all  she said, no 
claim was ever made on the back of this leak, it was purely an emergency call out to turn the 
water off. Mrs C said when her policy had finished with Hiscox, she spoke to different 
insurers who informed her that she didnt need to declare her emergency claim to them. So, 
Mrs C thought it was unfair and unjustified that Hiscox increased her premiums previously.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought Hiscoxs questions werent 
clear enough to properly ascertain the full facts when the policy was taken out. And she 
thought Mrs C had taken reasonable care in answering the questions that were asked when 
she took out the policy. She concluded that Hiscox had been unfair by increasing the 
premium mid-contract, so she thought Hiscox should refund the additional premium paid 
plus 8% interest for the time she had been without the money. She awarded £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Hiscox disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hiscox said I can confirm we have not treated this matter as misrepresentation, we were 
happy to offer terms, but at a slightly higher cost due to two claims within the previous five 
years and not the one mentioned at inception. The additional claim is a material fact and the 
change to the information provided for us to be able to rate the risk, changed as a result of 
the additional claim recorded on CUE.
While investigating the claim Hiscox said Mrs C didnt provide all the information it needed  
which I think has the same effect of it thinking Mrs C misrepresented her claims history when 
she took out the policy. Hiscox has argued, had it known the correct information about Mrs 
Cs claim history, it wouldve acted differently by offering the policy at a higher premium. As a 
result, Hiscox has retrospectively altered the terms of the policy by asking for a higher 
premium off Mrs C mid-contract. Therefore, I think its appropriate to consider this complaint 
as one of potential misrepresentation. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Mrs Cs circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
When Mrs C applied for her policy, she stated she had made one claim in the previous five 
years. There is some disagreement between Hiscox and Mrs C whether the interaction she 
had with her previous insurer constituted a claim or not for the emergency call out. 
I think Hiscoxs investigations reasonably show evidence that the information provided by 
Mrs C was incomplete compared to what is recorded on the industry database CUE. As 
Hiscox has pointed out, if this information was inaccurate Mrs C couldve raised a complaint 
against her previous insurer to ask for this to be changed. 
However, in these circumstances, I think Hiscox has been fair in saying the full claims history 
hasnt been provided, as it has provided evidence to support this.
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
Ive considered the questions that were asked of Mrs C when taking out the policy to see if 
she took reasonable care in providing her answers. Unfortunately, no call recording of the 
sales call is available, so there is no evidence of the precise words used on the call. So, I 
have relied on the standard call script that Hiscox has provided. The question that was 
asked of Mrs C was: How many buildings or contents claims have you and any person living 
in the property, made within the last five years?
Mrs C answered this question by providing details of a theft claim. Mrs C said she didnt 
think she needed to declare the emergency call out as she didnt think it was relevant to her 
future buildings and contents policy. She has provided evidence that supports why she 
thought her emergency call out didnt constitute a claim - she chose to commission an 
independent contractor to carry out the subsequent repairs. I think Mrs Cs answers are 
genuine. She declared a much more significant claim for a theft in the five-year period, so I 
think if she thought she needed to declare the emergency call out she wouldve done. I can 
see her policy schedule with Hiscox excludes cover for home emergency, so I can understand why Mrs C thought her emergency call out wasnt relevant to her future policy 
with Hiscox.
I think Mrs C has taken reasonable care in answering the question that was asked. I dont 
think the question was clear enough that Mrs C needed to tell Hiscox about any emergency 
call outs  the question asked specifically about buildings and contents claims.
Therefore, I think Mrs C took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation  she 
answered the questions to the best of her knowledge. I think she acted honestly. Therefore, I 
dont think it was fair for Hiscox to increase the cost of Mrs Cs premiums mid-contract after it 
had been agreed. 
Our service thinks an insurer can charge additional premium mid-term where a significant 
event has changed the risk posed, but I cant think that would apply here. I dont think 
knowledge of an emergency call out does constitute a significant event.
Therefore, I think Hiscox shouldve honoured the terms and conditions and price that was 
offered at the start of the policy. So, I uphold this complaint. I require Hiscox to refund the 
additional premiums paid by Mrs C (£658.81). As Mrs C has been unfairly left without this 
money, I require Hiscock to add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional premium 
from the date the premium was paid to the date it is refunded. I think this experience will 
have caused Mrs C some distress and inconvenience due to the increased costs, so I award 
£100 compensation. As to future years, I would expect the insurer to assess the risk fairly 
and show that it has treated the consumer as it would any other consumer in their position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mrs C:
A refund of the additional premiums (£564.39)
Plus 8% simple interest* (from the date the additional premiums was paid to the date 
its refunded)
£100 compensation**  for distress and inconvenience
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Hiscox must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mrs C 
asks for one
** Hiscox Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it that Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman