DRN-4225923
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Morses Club PLC irresponsibly gave her a fixed sum loan agreement 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs H applied for a loan with Morses in September 2022. The loan was for £300. Mrs H was 
required to make 39 weekly repayments of £14.22.
Mrs H complained in 2023 to say that the loan was unaffordable to her from the outset and 
that Morses shouldnt have lent to her. Morses didnt think it had acted unfairly and said it 
had completed adequate checks before lending which showed no affordability concerns. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Morses had 
gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information prior to lending to Mrs H and 
these checks didnt reveal any concerns. 
Mrs H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to lending to Mrs H, Morses were required to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. What is proportionate will vary with each lending decision as there isnt 
a set list of checks that had to be completed in every case. In deciding what was 
proportionate, Morses needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): the 
size of the loan, the total repayable, the term, the size of the regular repayments, the cost of 
borrowing and Mrs Hs circumstances. 
Mrs H declared that she had a weekly income of £450, which Morses says it checked with a 
credit reference agency. Ive not seen evidence of that check, but Mrs H doesnt appear to 
have disputed that figure, so Ive not seen any reason to doubt that this was accurate. She 
also declared weekly expenditure of around £204.
In addition to this, Morses completed a credit check. This showed that Mrs H had seven 
historic defaults, although the most recent of these took place in December 2018  nearly 
four years earlier. Other than this, she held one current account (which was in a positive 
balance) and a hire purchase agreement that would be repaid in full shortly. 
Ive taken into consideration that this loan was for a relatively low amount, to be repaid over 
a reasonably short term. The repayments were not significant and what Mrs H had declared 
about her financial circumstances (and what Morses had been able to evidence from credit 
reference agencies) indicated that the loan was likely to be affordable to her. 
I acknowledge Mrs H still had balances outstanding on those defaulted accounts that Morses 
could see. However, even when taking into account reasonable regular repayments towards 
those debts, it would still have appeared to leave Mrs H with sufficient disposable income to 
meet all of her commitments without difficulty. I therefore dont think Morses acted unfairly 
when it lent to her, nor do I think it would have been proportionate for it to have done more 
thorough checks in this case. 
I accept that the loan might not have been affordable to Mrs H. However, from everything 
she had told Morses and from everything it could see, that didnt appear to be the case. Im 
not therefore persuaded it acted unfairly in lending to her. If Mrs H is struggling to meet her 
repayments now, she should discuss this with Morses. I remind Morses of its obligation to 
treat her fairly if she is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman