DRN-3400407
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their car insurance 
claim.
Mrs F is the policy holder and the main complainant. So for ease Ill only refer to Mrs F in my 
decision. Any reference to AXA also refers to third parties that have acted on AXAs behalf. 
What happened
Mrs F complained to AXA after being unhappy about the way the insurer had handled the 
repair to her car following a claim in 2020. Mrs F said the repair was incomplete, carried out 
poorly and that there were delays. Mrs F also complained about the courtesy car and said 
she wasnt given one throughout the whole period of repairs. She asked that AXA covers the 
monthly instalments she had to pay towards her car finance, given she was without her car 
whilst the repairs took place.
AXA agreed that the repairs to Mrs Fs car werent up to standard and recognised it had to 
arrange multiple inspections and rectification works. The insurer acknowledged and 
explained why there were some delays and decided that it had followed its process correctly 
regarding the courtesy car. AXA declined to cover Mrs Fs finance repayments but paid her 
£700 compensation for what went wrong.
Mrs F didnt agree and asked this service to review her complaint. Mrs F says repairs are still 
outstanding and that the £700 compensation AXA has paid is insufficient. One of our 
investigators decided that AXA had put forward a fair resolution to Mrs Fs complaint. The 
investigator agreed that asking AXA to cover Mrs Fs finance repayments would be 
unreasonable and concluded that the rectification work to Mrs Fs car had been completed in 
full. 
Mrs F didnt agree and asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the view that AXA has put forward a fair resolution. I know Mrs F will 
be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
The main issue here seems to be the standard of repairs carried out by AXAs approved 
repairer(s). Following the completion of the initial repair, Mrs F informed AXA about 
problems shed found with the repair. AXA arranged an independent inspection of the car, 
which pointed out that Mrs Fs car needed further rectification work. Looking at the 
information Ive seen, Mrs F experienced this problem on at least three occasions  each 
time AXA arranged an independent inspection that recommended further rectification work. 
I agree that this is poor claim handling on AXAs part, but its reassuring that AXA already 
recognised its failing here. In such circumstances, I wouldve expected the insurer to re-
inspect Mrs Fs car and carry out any rectification work thats identified. AXA seems to have 
done this several times, so Im satisfied that it took appropriate steps at the time to resolve 
Mrs Fs concerns. 
Mrs F says shes still waiting for further repairs to her car. AXA has provided a copy of the 
final independent inspection of Mrs Fs car. The report notes that Mrs F had flagged new 
concerns with the repair to her car and pointed out issues that she hadnt told AXA about 
before. The independent report concludes that Mrs F had continuously raised new issues 
with her car  it advised that no further repairs are required and confirmed the previously 
identified rectification work had been completed. The independent report recommended that 
AXA concludes this matter. In the absence of any other independent assessments of Mrs Fs 
car, I can only rely on the report that is available to me  which leads me to conclude that the 
repairs to Mrs Fs car have been completed.
I know Mrs F remains unhappy with some of the issues she pointed out following the repairs. 
But the final inspection report indicates that the further issues she identified werent 
problems that were noted during previous inspections. And previous issues related to the 
poor repairs had been rectified. Based on the conclusions of the reports, Im satisfied AXA 
took reasonable steps to rectify the problems identified by the independent inspections.
Mrs F is unhappy with the courtesy car arrangement she had  she says she wasnt given a 
courtesy car throughout the period of repairs and previously complained to AXA about the 
vehicle she was given. The terms of the policy explain that Mrs F would be given a courtesy 
car as long as her car is in for repair with one of AXAs approved repairers. The policy terms 
also specify the type of courtesy car AXA provides as standard. 
AXA has provided information that confirms Mrs F was given a courtesy car in line with the 
policy terms for at least around two months. AXA hasnt been able to confirm whether Mrs F 
had access to a courtesy car throughout the multiple periods of rectification works. And 
Mrs F hasnt been able to provide further information either. So its unclear to me whether 
she was given a courtesy car for the full duration of works and  if not  then why this was 
the case. So I cant fairly conclude that AXA has done something wrong in relation to this 
because both parties havent been able to give me enough detail to allow me to do so.
Mrs F thinks AXA should cover her monthly car finance repayments for the duration her car 
was in for repairs. But the terms of the policy set out that loss of use and additional 
expenses are not covered by the policy. Moreover, the finance repayments wouldve been 
payable by Mrs F under her contract with her finance provider  regardless of whether she 
was using the car or if was in for repair. So I dont think it would be reasonable to instruct 
AXA to cover Mrs Fs repayments.
Its seems apparent to me that AXA didnt get things right the first time around when it 
arranged to repair Mrs Fs car. And this happened on multiple occasions. There were also 
some delays which AXA accepts. AXA also recognises the distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mrs F because of its failings and it paid her £700 compensation. In my opinion, this 
is a fair amount of compensation and within the region of what I wouldve instructed AXA to 
pay, had it not offered compensation. So I wont be asking the insurer to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc has delivered a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman