DRN-2358739
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc did not return title deeds in line with his 
instructions when a mortgage was redeemed, which caused him to incur additional costs.
What has happened
Mr S was redeeming a mortgage held with Bradford & Bingley. On 7 April 2019 he wrote to
Bradford & Bingley confirming that the redemption payment had been made and asked
that it send the title deeds for the mortgaged property directly to his solicitor. The deeds 
were needed urgently for a legal matter and Mr S was unable to receive them at home as 
he was out of the country.
Bradford & Bingley incorrectly sent the deeds to Mr S home address. Mr S solicitor was 
made aware of this on 24 April 2019. The deeds were recovered and provided
to Mr S solicitor on 1 May 2019.
Mr S complained to Bradford & Bingley that it had not followed his instruction. He said that
as a result, hed incurred additional legal fees totalling £1,747.50.
Bradford & Bingley acknowledged that the documents shouldve been sent in line with 
Mr S instruction. But it didnt think it was reasonable that it cover all of the additional costs. 
So, it offered to pay £100 of the costs and £150 for the upset caused.
Unhappy with this response Mr S asked our service to look into his complaint.
I issued my provisional decision in November 2020 explaining that I intended to uphold 
Mr S complaint. In summary I said;
Bradford & Bingley had acknowledged that it received Mr S instruction regarding the 
title deeds before they were sent out. But due to its internal processes these were not 
passed to the relevant team in time and werent acted on. So, it wasnt in dispute that 
a mistake was made and that this was not Mr S fault.
Mr S had provided evidence hed agreed a price for the legal work being carried out 
with his solicitor several months before this error had occurred.
Hed also provided evidence that hed been charged, and paid, a higher amount for 
the legal work and that this was because it had needed to be done in a condensed 
timescale  due to the delay in the deeds being provided to Mr S solicitor. Id seen 
evidence the additional cost to him was £1,747.50.
Although Bradford & Bingley had indicated it felt the breakdown of costs indicated 
some of the delay was due staff absences at the solicitors firm, on balance I did not 
agree.
While I didnt think Bradford & Bingley had intentionally disregarded Mr S instruction 
I was satisfied it had made an error, which had caused Mr S to incur costs that he 
wouldnt otherwise have done. So, I felt it was reasonable that Bradford & Bingley 
refund those costs in full. I also felt it should pay 8% interest on that amount.
I thought that the £150 Bradford & Bingley had already offered for the upset caused 
by its actions was fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr S provided an email from his solicitors to support my finding that there had been no staff 
absences that had contributed to the delays. He said apart from this he had nothing further 
he wanted to add. 
Bradford & Bingley said it agreed with my provisional decision and to pay the redress 
recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr S for the additional information provided. Having reviewed this and the 
breakdown of costs I considered when issuing my provisional decision, Im satisfied that this 
confirms my previous finding. The case notes setting out costs, and breaking down the 
additional cost Mr S incurred, do refer to unavailability of certain staff. But Im satisfied this 
wasnt in relation to Mr S solicitors but rather it referred to the third-party solicitor they were 
liaising with. So, I dont think any of the delay, and in turn the additional cost incurred, was 
due to the actions of Mr S solicitor.
With this in mind, and as both parties have nothing further to add and are largely in 
agreement, I see no reason to change my opinion, as set out in my provisional findings and 
summarised above, that the complaint should succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr S complaint. 
To put things right I require Bradford & Bingley Plc to;
Pay Mr S £1,747.50 representing the additional cost he incurred due to its error, plus 
8% simple interest on this amount from the points Mr S incurred these additional 
costs to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £150, as originally offered, for the trouble and upset caused by its error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman