DRN-4373435
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to safeguard him as a 
vulnerable consumer when he started gambling as a result of a mental breakdown.
What happened
On 7 November 2022 Mr C spent a total of £7,581 on numerous gambling transactions from 
his current account. Later that afternoon he messaged Lloyds to explain that he suffered 
from ADHD and autism and had undergone a mental breakdown as a result of his wife 
leaving him over the weekend. He said he used every penny in the account and then 
transferred as much cash as possible out of numerous credit cards to spend on gambling, 
with a view to then committing suicide. He said he was now at the hospital and his mental 
health worker had suggested he request the cancellation of the pending transactions due to 
not being mentally sound.
Lloyds responded that it wouldnt be able to cancel or stop the transactions. But it said there 
was some support it could offer, which included: 
Card freezes that he could set up on his banking app to block all online transactions.
Applying a strict flag to the account, meaning there could be no automated lending 
decisions thereby reducing his access to credit to gamble.
An online page to provide support with budgeting tools.
Switching off marketing so that he wouldnt receive product advertising.
Signposting him to some external support organisations that would enable him to 
self-exclude from online gambling sites.
The adviser also asked if it was okay to make a note on the account about the information 
Mr C had shared. Mr C said he didnt authorise them to put a note on file because he didnt 
have a gambling problem. He said he only started to gamble a month before as his marriage 
was falling apart and finally came to an end this weekend. He said hed go to the bank when 
he was out of hospital to see what support it could provide to help get his finances back on 
track.
On 14 November 2022 Mr C again made a large number of gambling transactions. Although 
he says these totalled £7,660, from the evidence of the bank statements, I have calculated it 
to be £7,450. He says he got the funds by cashing in some work shares. He again contacted 
Lloyds later that day, explaining that he was back on his medication and thinking more 
clearly. He had registered with Gamstop to ban himself from gambling and said that Lloyds 
should have stopped him from squandering the subsequent amount he had spent that day. 
On this occasion Mr C was happy for a note to be added to his account. 
On 15 November 2022 he contacted Lloyds to complain that this had been allowed to 
happen, given that he had contacted it earlier to explain his situation. He said he had 
transferred the only funds left available to him out of his work shares and that he should 
have been prevented from repeating his mistakes. He said he had been left in a dire 
financial predicament as a result. 
Lloyds said that it had discussed options with Mr C when he made contact but he didnt want 
to discuss things further at that time. It couldnt then proactively approach a customer to set 
controls and that it would be up to a customer to initiate freezing the debit card.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint and giving the parties the opportunity to comment further. Lloyds responded to say 
that it accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt submit any additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated in my provisional decision, there was no reason why Lloyds should have been 
monitoring Mr Cs account for signs of vulnerability prior to 7 November 2022. And as the 
transactions on 7 November 2022 were legitimately made, there is no responsibility on 
Lloyds to refund those payments.
But when Mr C contacted Lloyds later on 7 November 2022 to explain that the compulsive 
spending he had carried out on that day was a result of a mental health crisis, thats the 
point when it should have known that Mr C was extremely vulnerable and there was 
therefore a need for additional support.
This is not a typical case of someone with a gambling addiction, where I might have said that 
offering the standard list of options may have been helpful. Lloyds had been put on notice 
about Mr Cs serious mental health problems. On balance, I think it should have identified 
that Mr C needed a higher level of safeguarding and so done more to protect him by tailoring 
its support to Mr Cs particular circumstances.
Knowing that Mr C had engaged in harmful compulsive spending, Lloyds should have been 
monitoring his account for more unusual activity linked to his declared vulnerabilities. 
Because it didnt do so, I think there was a missed opportunity to help Mr C on 14 November 
2022. Had it intervened on that date, I think its likely Mr C would have been prevented from 
losing some of his money to gambling websites.
I say this because, given Mr Cs previous candour with Lloyds about what was going on in 
his life, I consider that he would have most likely engaged meaningfully in conversation with 
it about how his mental health was once again resulting in a compulsive gambling spree.
Also, the evidence is that Mr C was quick to regret his actions on both 7 and 14 November 
2022 and made contact with Lloyds on both dates seeking help.
Had Lloyds been monitoring the account, it could have given Mr C a welfare call on 14 
November 2022 when it spotted that a pattern of harmful spending was again beginning. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that a timely phone conversation would have snapped 
him out of that behaviour. 
Again, as I said in my provisional decision, its difficult to identify the exact point that Lloyds 
should have intervened. Mr C had placed a few bets between 8 and 12 November 2022. 
However, it was on 14 November 2022 that his behaviour began to be truly problematic with 
him carrying out almost 30 gambling transactions. On balance, I think Lloyds should have 
noticed the unusual activity on the account by the time of the fifth transaction. Had it done so 
and given Mr C a call at that time, I find it more likely than not that the remaining transactions 
would not have taken place.Putting things right
Lloyds should refund all the gambling transactions that left Mr Cs account on 14 November 
2022 from the sixth transaction onwards, totalling £6,620. 
Id said in my provisional decision that, if Lloyds was able to verify any gambling winnings 
that came into the account during or shortly after this time, it could deduct these from the 
overall refund. Lloyds says it hasnt been able to identify any winnings and so will make the 
payment without any deductions.
In addition, Lloyds should pay Mr C a further £500 for the distress caused in allowing him to 
continue his harmful spending and the worry he has had to endure as a consequence of 
losing that money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C 
£7,120 compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman