DRN-2732836
The complaint
Mr W complains about what followed when he made a request to reduce his payments on a 
loan with National Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened.
Mr W had a loan and a bank account with the bank. As a result of financial difficulty Mr W 
struggled to make the necessary payments on the loan. He contacted the bank and asked 
for a repayment plan; this wasnt possible due to him having already had the maximum 
number of repayment plans that the bank would allow. So, he applied for a reduced payment 
amount from £160.00 to £100.00 instead. This was misinterpreted as £1.00 and declined. 
When Mr W explained to the bank what had happened it apologised and agreed to the 
reduced payment amount. In line with the banks approach to accepting reduced payment 
amounts, the bank sent Mr W a letter on 3 July 2020 giving him notice of its intention to 
close his account within 60 days. Mr W didnt realise his bank card was going to be 
cancelled and only discovered this when he was left stranded 35 miles from home. This was 
particularly distressing due to his wifes health condition.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt the bank had been 
clear when it agreed the last repayment plan that it wouldnt agree one again. She also felt 
the bank was clear when it said it would allow a payment reduction instead that this would 
mean that the account would be transferred to recoveries and that it would only remain open 
for repaying the debt. She appreciated that it would have been embarrassing when the bank 
made its error confusing £100 for £1.00 but noted it had apologised. She was sorry to hear 
of the distressing circumstances which followed Mr W discovering his card no longer worked. 
But she felt that the bank had let Mr W know that his account would become unusable. She 
appreciated Mr W said he hadnt received any of the letters the bank said it had sent but she 
thought she couldnt hold the bank responsible for this and thought that it was likely Mr W 
had been told about the account closure on the phone. Overall, she felt the bank had done 
what it could to help Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree. He feels he's been treated badly by the bank and it hasn't been fair. He 
also says he never received the letters it sent about account closure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear Mr W has been in financial difficulties. I am also sorry that he was left 
stranded in such distressing circumstances. But I agree with the investigator, I dont think the 
bank has been unfair.
When a consumer is in financial difficulties a bank has a duty to act sympathetically and 
positively. In Mr Ws case the bank agreed to a few repayment plans. But there comes a 
point where repayment plans are no longer viable. In this case the bank made clear to Mr W 
that it couldnt agree to anymore repayment plans. I think that was reasonable. The bank 
was, however, prepared to continue to support Mr W but this time through a payment 
reduction. It is unfortunate that the bank mistook £100 for £1.00 but it has apologised, and I 
think that is a reasonable response. I think the bank made clear to Mr W what would happen 
to his account once the payment reduction was agreed. I appreciate Mr W says he didnt get 
the letters but, like the investigator, I cant hold the bank responsible for that. So, I also cant 
hold the bank responsible for Mr Ws bank card not working when he needed it to work 
although I am sorry for the distressing circumstances which made the card not working 
particularly difficult for Mr W and his family.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman