DRN-3366730
The complaint
Mr H has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) havent said paid for repairs to his 
bathroom  even though they said they would if he provided an expert report as to the 
damage.
What happened
Mr H had an escape of water in his bathroom in 2013.  He reported this to UKI, who provided 
his property insurance at the time.  UKI accepted the claim and dealt with repairs.  And they 
arranged for further work in 2015, after the original repair work was found to be faulty.
Later in 2015, Mr H changed insurers.  He hasnt had a property policy with UKI since.
In late 2020, Mr H noticed a cracked tile in the same area of the bathroom.  By February 
2021, the crack had spread and the wall underneath was water damaged.  So Mr H made a 
claim to his insurer.  The insurer declined his claim, as they said the damage was due to 
wear and tear, rather than an insured event.
Mr H contacted UKI as he believes the cracked tiles were due to poor workmanship in the 
2015 repairs.  He invited UKI to investigate.  But UKI said Mr H would need to supply them 
with an experts report that the damage was due to faulty workmanship, rather than wear 
and tear as they no longer had the claim records from 2013-15.
Mr H complained to UKI and  when he wasnt satisfied with their response  complained to 
our service that it was unreasonable for UKI to require him to supply a report at his own cost.
Mr Hs complaint was referred to an ombudsman, who made a final decision.  They 
considered whether this could be a continuation of the 2013 claim, which had been 
concluded in 2015.  They noted the work had been guaranteed for 12 months following 
completion and so the most recent damage was outside the guarantee.  
And they thought it most likely that, if the damage had been due to faulty workmanship, it 
would have been apparent much earlier than five years after the repairs.  So the 
ombudsman wasnt persuaded UKI should treat the new damage as continuation of the 
earlier claim. 
But they noted UKI was willing to consider Mr Hs claim if he provided an experts report to 
support what he said and/or provided more information about why his current insurer had 
declined the claim.  The ombudsman thought this was a reasonable way forward.  But they 
didnt direct UKI to do anything further.
Following the ombudsmans decision, Mr H provided UKI with a report from a tiler.  The 
report included a quote for replacing the damaged tiles of £1,140.56 and cost £90.  When 
they received this, UKI sent Mr H a cheque for £1,230.56.  
Mr H responded, saying hed submitted the quote by mistake and it didnt cover all the costs 
of repair  which came to £2,575.  And hed incurred the cost of the report and £300 for 
dehumidifiers as well.  UKI responded, explaining they no longer had access to any of the 
claim records and the cheque was a goodwill gesture to resolve the issue.  They said the 
report provided by Mr H was an opinion and they didnt consider the damage to be part of 
the original claim, as there had been no leaks for five years after their repairs.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with UKIs response and brought a fresh complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded UKI didnt need to do anything further.  He noted 
the tilers report was short and provided no supporting evidence for his view the work was 
faulty.  So it was reasonable for UKI to conclude it didnt support Mr Hs claim.  And he noted 
Mr H hadnt provided any information from his current insurer, as suggested by UKI and 
endorsed by the ombudsmans decision.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
In his response to the investigators view, Mr H said UKI had told him that, if he provided a 
report from an expert tiler, theyd accept it.  But I dont think thats actually what was said.
Ive been given a copy of the ombudsmans decision relating to Mr Hs previous complaint.  
That says:
UKI is willing to consider Mr Hs claim if he can provide an expert report to support poor 
workmanship.
It doesnt give any assurance that the claim will be accepted.  Its usual practice in insurance 
claims for insurers to gather evidence to help them decide whether the damage involved 
arose from an insured event.
In this case, the insured event occurred in 2013.  Repairs, and rectification of the original 
faulty repairs, were completed by 2015.  After this, Mr H bought his insurance from another 
provider.  So, unless the damage Mr H wants rectifying is linked to the original claim or 
rectification work, it would be unreasonable for me to say UKI should pay the costs Mr H is 
claiming.
Its not my role to decide the cause of the damage to Mr Hs bathroom.  Rather, Ive 
considered whether or not the conclusions UKI have drawn about its cause are reasonable.  
The information available is limited because UKI no longer hold the documents relating to 
the original claim.  So theyve based their decision on the information available.  Ive had to 
do the same.
Repairs in the original claim were completed in April 2014.  Mr H says that, by December 
that year  eight months later - cracks had appeared in the tiles.  
By comparison, the remedial work completed in April 2015 showed no sign of damage until 
December 2020  five years and eight months after completion.   Mr H submitted a claim to 
his current insurers at the time, which they declined, stating the damage was due to wear 
and tear.  
Ive not seen any further details of how the insurer reached that conclusion.  But, given the 
amount of time which has passed, I dont think its an unreasonable conclusion to draw.  And 
I can see that UKI have drawn the same conclusion.I know Mr H is unhappy that he had to get a report from a tiler.  That matter was dealt with in 
the previous ombudsmans decision, so Im not going to comment further on that.  But I have 
looked at the report provided and thought whether UKI reasonably considered it before 
concluding it didnt show this should be treated as a continuing claim.
The report says the work is sub-standard both in terms of workmanship and the materials 
used and concludes the bathroom needs stripping and re-tiling.  It doesnt consider 
alternative causes of the damage, provide any supporting evidence (for example, 
photographs) or given an opinion on how long it might take such damage to became 
apparent if it was due to poor workmanship.  
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to say it should be given more weight than the view 
of UKIs claims team that the most likely cause of the damage was wear and tear.  And that 
means I dont think UKI need to pay Mr H any more than the £1,230.56 theyve already 
offered him to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about UK Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman