DRN-3244608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that TWP Wealth Ltd (TWP) gave them inaccurate information about 
their personal pension (PP), causing them to lose out. And theyre concerned about the 
security of their information.
What happened
In 2014, TWP advised Mr S to transfer his PPs into a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), except for one  which Ill refer to as Pension A. In 2016, TWPs adviser left. And, in 
2017, TWP contacted Ms and Mrs S offering them cashflow forecasting, after which they 
engaged it on an ongoing basis. Mr and Mrs S say that, in late 2018, Mr S transferred one of 
his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes into the SIPP after being advised to 
do so by another firm (Firm B). And, in 2019, TWP advised Mr and Mrs S on how to invest 
those funds within the SIPP. 
In July 2020, Mr and Mrs S complained to TWP that, in summary, they were incorrectly told 
Pension A was a final salary scheme that shouldnt be transferred as it would provide an 
annual income of £4,000. Mr and Mrs S said TWP referred to this as a final salary pension in 
its pension analysis report, in a later email to their solicitor and again when they met with it in 
2017. They said that Firm B based their advice on information from TWPs report that 
Pension A was a final salary scheme, which meant Mr S transferred another DB scheme of 
his to the SIPP when he otherwise wouldnt have. They also said theyve been told their 
information was removed by TWPs adviser, causing them to feel vulnerable.  
In response, TWP said theres no evidence Pension A had a guaranteed income to indicate 
it was a final salary scheme. TWP said the information it would have obtained at the time 
indicates this had protected tax free cash (TFC) that could be lost on switching. It said this 
explains why it didnt give any advice on Pension A, which in turn explains why it didnt retain 
any information about it. TWP also said that when it contacted Mr and Mrs S again in 2017 
this was just to offer cash flow modelling and that they told it Pension A was a final salary 
scheme in a form they filled out, so it treated it as such. And that the firm who advised Mr S 
to transfer his DB scheme in 2018 was responsible for ensuring this was accurate, including 
obtaining information about his pensions to help form the advice. 
TWP said that when its adviser left it let the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) know, who 
was satisfied its clients hadnt suffered any financial loss, as well as the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). It said it followed the expected requirements, including 
reviewing all client files and it didnt believe anything was missing. And that when it later 
received all items that had been removed by the adviser following his death the information 
returned wasnt deemed a data breach and there was no evidence client information was 
outstanding.  
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs S came to our service. They added that TWP was the only 
financial adviser out of those they approached who told them Pension A was a final salary 
scheme during a presentation. They said that after they re-engaged TWP they were told its 
adviser had removed various files, which appeared to include theirs given it couldnt provide 
some of their pension details. And that they believed this given the adviser had contacted 
them twice to try to engage them.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint. She said she wasnt 
persuaded TWPs adviser gave them incorrect information at the time about Pension A, 
particularly that it would provide an annual income of £4,000. And that, in any case, it cant 
be held responsible for the advice Mr and Mrs S were given by another firm in 2018. She 
was also satisfied TWP took reasonable steps after its adviser left and said theres nothing 
to suggest their information was compromised.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, Im not asking TWP to 
do anything for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
The parties have made a number of representations. And, while Ive taken all of these into 
account, I only intend to comment on those that I think are key to reaching my decision. 
While I appreciate what Mr and Mrs S recall being told by TWP about Pension A, I have to 
consider what I think is likely to have happened at the time of the advice. And, on balance 
Im not persuaded TWP led them to believe it was a final salary scheme where theyd 
receive a guaranteed income. The notes Mr and Mrs S used during their meeting with TWP 
show they wanted advice on Mr S PPs, which they listed, including Pension A, under a 
Money Purchase heading separately to his final salary schemes. And I can see TWPs 
adviser only set out information about those PPs, again including Pension A, in its transfer 
analysis report as a result. So, while the adviser gave Pension A the heading Final Salary 
Personal Pension within this, I think both parties understood it was a PP at that point. 
The report goes on to say TWP wouldnt be advising on Pension A though, which I think is 
reasonably explained by it having protected TFC that could be lost on switching. And, while 
this isnt in the suitability report, I think its likely the adviser had a conversation with Mr S 
explaining this was why Pension A was being treated differently to his other PPs, rather than 
saying this was because it was a final salary scheme.
The information from the time doesnt suggest Mr and Mrs S were told Pension A would 
provide a guaranteed income of £4,000 either. While theyve said the pension analysis report 
shows the income was £3,900, this figure is the A day value which doesnt represent an 
income, so I think its unlikely they would have been told it did. And I think its unlikely the 
adviser would have spent time considering the income Mr S could achieve from Pension A 
when they werent providing advice on it. 
Mr and Mrs S have highlighted some inaccuracies in the report, such as Mr S intended 
retirement age, but theres nothing to suggest these impacted TWPs advice at the time. And 
I recognise the adviser listed Pension A as one of Mr S final salary schemes when emailing 
their solicitor a month later, seemingly in error, which might have caused them some 
confusion with hindsight. But, given what Ive said above, I dont think this is enough to have 
led them to think this was the case at the time. 
Mr and Mrs S suggest that because they feel theyd been led to believe Pension A was a 
final salary scheme, they were more inclined to accept Firm Bs advice to transfer another DB scheme as they still had Pension A. But even if I thought TWP had gotten things wrong, 
it isnt in dispute that Firm B provided Mr and Mrs S with the advice to transfer Mr S DB 
scheme into their SIPP in 2018. And when giving that advice, Firm B was required to gather 
information about Mr S circumstances and other assets. So, I cant fairly hold TWP 
responsible for that firms actions or advice, or Mr and Mrs S resulting transfer decision. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded TWP led Mr and Mrs S to believe 
Pension A was a final salary scheme that would provide a guaranteed income of £4,000. 
And, in any case, I cant hold it responsible for their later decision to transfer Mr S DB 
scheme to the SIPP, which was the result of separate advice from Firm B. 
Turning to Mr and Mrs S concerns about the safety of their information, my role isnt to 
punish TWP. Its to establish if its done anything wrong and to consider what, if anything, if 
needs to do to put things right in that case. I can see TWP has explained the steps it took 
after their adviser left to Mr and Mrs S to reassure them about their concerns, including 
letting the FCA  the regulator of financial businesses  and ICO know in the way Id expect. 
And, while it would have been concerning for Mr and Mrs S if they were told their confidential 
information had been removed, I cant see that it has been compromised or that theres 
anything to suggest theyve been caused a financial loss as a result. This means Im not 
asking TWP to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not asking TWP Wealth Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman