DRN-4307129
The complaint
Mr H complains that the pension plan he held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
fell in value. He believes that this is due to the policy being mis-managed. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr H contacted Aviva. He was unhappy that the pension plan held with Aviva 
had fallen in value. He wanted to withdraw the full amount and complained about the fall in 
value. He asked Aviva to reimburse the amount it had fallen in value.
Aviva responded to Mr Hs complaint. It said that market volatility due to external factors had 
meant this had been a challenging time for financial markets and explained in more detail 
why his pension had fallen in value. It explained to Mr H that, whilst it was responsible for 
administering his pension plan, it wasnt responsible for how it was invested and that if Mr H 
was unhappy with the investment funds, hed need to seek financial advice. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this response and withdrew the full amount of his pension. And he 
referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Aviva had made a mistake so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr H 
didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. So this is 
complaint is now with me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator, and for the same reasons. 
Whilst I understand why Mr H is upset that his pension has fallen in value, Ive seen nothing 
to suggest this is due to mismanagement by Aviva. As our Investigator explained, a number 
of worldwide events have led to stock markets being significantly impacted over the period 
that Mr Hs pension fell in value. 
Mr H has said that he thought his pension was invested in low-risk funds. Ive seen the fund 
factsheet, and the majority of this fund is invested in bonds and gilts, with a smaller portion 
invested in equities and cash. Typically, bonds and gilts are considered lower risk. However, 
in times like this, they can still fall in value. This doesnt mean that the fund has been 
mismanaged. And many funds like Mr Hs have fallen in value over the same time frame. 
Whilst Aviva was responsible for administering the pension plan, it was solely the provider. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest it provided advice as to how Mr H should invest his pension. 
Any concerns Mr H had that the funds were to high risk for him, wouldve needed to be 
considered though seeking financial advice. 
Mr H has also said that he was frustrated with the customer service when trying to access 
some of his pension, so he ended up encashing the full amount. Avivas notes show that 
Mr H did have some difficulty in contacting it including one phone call that cut out. The call 
notes suggest that Aviva tried to call him back but was unsuccessful. I can also see that Mr 
H didnt receive the first retirement options pack, so this had to be resent. However, the 
pension was withdrawn less than two months after Mr H first got in touch. I dont think this is 
an unreasonable time frame overall.
My final decision
Whilst I understand that Mr H will be disappointed, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman