DRN-2298748
The complaint
Mr V complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr V was given a single loan by UKC. He borrowed £7,500 in June 2014 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. At times Mr V has faced problems making his 
repayments, and a balance remained outstanding on the loan when he made his complaint.
Mr Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that UKC 
had done sufficient checks before lending to Mr V. And she thought that better checks would 
have shown UKC that Mr V was facing problems managing his money. So she didnt think 
the loan should have been agreed and she asked UKC to pay Mr V some compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr V accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Vs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC gave this loan to Mr V required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr V. In practice this 
meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr V undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr V. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr V.
UKC gathered some information from Mr V before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how well hed managed credit in the past.
Mr V was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Vs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks I have described above achieved that aim. 
I think that the checks UKC did were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the results of those checks. Sometimes that will lead a lender to ask a 
consumer for further information. Or sometimes they will lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. And I think that is what should have happened here.
Our investigator thought that UKC should have had concerns that Mr V had overstated his 
income when applying for the loan. I dont share that conclusion. Mr V had supplied UKC 
with a recent payslip so that it could check his normal income. So whilst the UKC agent 
appears to have mistakenly concluded Mr Vs earnings were higher, I dont think that was 
because of incorrect information provided by Mr V. And I dont think that, had the correct 
information been recorded by the advisor, it would have made much difference to the lending 
decision.
UKCs check of Mr Vs credit file showed that he had 8 different accounts in default. This did 
cause some concerns to UKC and it asked Mr V about those defaults. He explained they 
had arisen as a result of him losing his job and being unable to make his repayments. He 
said that he was making token repayments of £5 on the accounts. UKC accepted Mr Vs 
explanation and decided that the adverse information it had seen wasnt an indicator of any 
current financial problems. 
But I dont think that assessment was reasonable. The defaults on Mr Vs credit file had been 
incurred over a period of three years. The latest default had been added just two months 
before hed asked for this loan. UKC has said that the amounts involved were small. But 
given the amount of disposable income UKC assessed for Mr V, I would question why he 
hadnt taken any action to repay those debts if his finances were as healthy as UKC had 
recorded.
I cannot agree that UKC should have found Mr Vs explanation of why the defaults had 
arisen to be plausible. As I said earlier, they had been incurred over a period of three years. I dont think that could be representative of a sudden shock to Mr Vs income through him 
losing his employment. Instead I think it was an indicator that Mr Vs finances had been 
under pressure for some time, and had not recovered from any previous problems he had 
faced managing his money.
Mr V had told UKC that he was only making token repayments on the accounts, but also 
said that the loan would be used to consolidate some of those debts. Given they were in 
default that made little financial sense  replacing a defaulted loan on which interest wouldnt 
be incurred with a high cost loan from UKC. I dont think that UKC should have supported 
Mr Vs intention to consolidate those debts with its loan. 
I think that the credit check results showed that it would be unlikely that Mr V could take on 
any further credit and repay it in a sustainable manner. He had recently defaulted on 
accounts, and had a significant history of repayment difficulties. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think UKC could have reasonably concluded that any problems Mr V had faced in 
the past had now been resolved.
So I dont think that UKC should have agreed to give this loan to Mr V. It needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
I dont think UKC should have agreed to lend to Mr V in June 2014. So UKC should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr V made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Vs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr V effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then UKC should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Vs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind UKC that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr V for the remaining principal.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation to the loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman