DRN-2425271
The complaint
Mr S complained about the switch of direct debits by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr S had accounts at Barclays and another bank (Bank A). He visited a branch of Barclays 
in October 2019. He asked that the direct debits were switched from Bank A to Barclays. 
Barclays switched the account from Bank A to them.
Mr S complained  hed asked only that his direct debits were switched to Barclays. But 
theyd switched the whole account. This meant the Bank A closed his account. This wasnt 
what he wanted.
Barclays responded in October 2019. They said that theyd made an error  instead of 
asking Bank A to switch just the direct debits, theyd gone ahead with the full switch of Mr S 
account from Bank A - and therefore Bank A had closed his account with them. They 
apologised for their mistake and offered £100 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
November 2020 he said that there were two processes that banks followed when switching 
accounts. A full account switch - moves everything (balances, direct debits, etc) from one 
bank to the other  and the old account is closed. A partial switch  moves just the direct 
debits from one bank to another. The balances stay where they are - and the account stays 
open. Barclays made a mistake  they did a full switch. So, Bank A closed Mr Ss account. 
Barclays couldnt ask Bank A to re-open Mr Ss account as they had no access to Bank As 
systems or information. They agreed Mr S had been inconvenienced - but he hadnt suffered 
any loss as his money was in his Barclays account. And the direct debit payments were 
being made by Barclays. So, he thought that Barclays apology and offer of compensation of 
£100 was right.
Mr S asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S is frustrated and feels that the compensation offered by Barclays isnt 
enough.
The problem arose here because of an error by Barclays. They asked Bank A to close its 
account and switch everything  the balance and direct debits  to them. Mr S had only 
asked that his direct debits were switched from Bank A to Barclays. This was not what he 
wanted.  And he had to complain the Barclays and work out what had happened.
But  he hasnt said he has suffered any financial loss. I can see that direct debits were 
being paid from his Barclays account. So, his bills were being paid OK. And the balance was 
transferred from Bank A to Barclays, so he could use his money.
Barclays admitted their error, apologised and offered compensation of £100. This is the sort 
of amount we would expect to see for what happened. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore. If Mr S wishes to accept Barclays offer, he should contact them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman