DRN-3474867
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd incorrectly chased him for a debt 
and didnt remove a default marker from his credit record.
What happened
In September 2021, Lantern purchased a debt from a third-party lender, Ill refer to as B. B 
provided Lantern with Mr Es information and the amount owed. Lantern then reported this 
information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr E contacted Lantern in October 2021, explaining that he had been removed as a 
guarantor for the loan and so B shouldnt have sold the debt onto Lantern and provided his 
details. Mr E later noticed that Lantern were wrongly reporting a default against him for the 
debt.
Lantern responded to Mr Es complaint and confirmed that once it was notified by both Mr E 
and B that Mr E wasnt liable for the debt, it took steps to remove Mr Es information from its 
records. It accepted it should have done more to remove the default marker from his credit 
file and offered Mr E £100 to apologise for this.
Mr E says that the default has caused him considerable trouble, in that he wasnt able to 
borrow money at a reasonable rate, he was declined for credit and he has been unable 
rearrange his mortgage. Hes said this situation has caused him a lot of stress. And he 
doesnt think the £100 Lantern has offered him by way of an apology is enough.
To put things right, Mr E says he wants Lantern to pay him more compensation for its 
mistake. And he would like the regulator to fine Lantern.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint and they thought that the £100 
compensation for not removing the default sooner was a fair way to settle things.
Mr E didnt agree with the Investigator. He didnt feel as though the Investigator had 
considered all of his concerns. And he feels that Lantern are purchasing debts without due 
care and attention.
Because Mr E didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Es complaint. I appreciate this 
decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E, but Ill explain my reasons for this below. 
Lantern purchased the debt from B in September 2021, and I can see Mr E was notified of 
this. Generally, when a firm, Lantern in this case, purchases a debt, it will do so in good faith 
 in that itd expect the information provided by the lender to be correct. 
I appreciate Mr E feels as though Lantern should have done more to check that he was 
liable for the debt before purchasing it, but it would generally be up to the lender to ensure 
that it had provided the debt purchaser with the correct information prior to the sale.
I can see Lantern notified Mr E of the purchase of the debt. And soon after, Mr E contacted 
Lantern to let it know he shouldnt be held liable. This is the first point Ive seen where 
Lantern ought reasonably to have been aware of a potential problem with the information it 
had received about the debt.
I can see that after notification from Mr E that he shouldnt be liable for the debt, Lantern 
quickly started to make enquiries with B to check what Mr E had said. At this point, I can see 
that Lantern put a note on the file to ensure that Mr E wasnt contacted about the debt while 
it was being investigated  which is what I would have expected it to do. 
Once Mr E and B had both confirmed that Mr E wasnt liable for the debt, Lantern removed 
Mr E as a guarantor. This all appears to have happened in a relatively timely manner.
Once a debt is purchased, it is Lanterns responsibility to report the debt to the credit 
reference agencies  and any defaults that had been recorded by the lender would then 
need to continue to be reported by Lantern. So, I dont find that Lantern initially did anything 
wrong in reporting the debt to the credit reference agencies  it could only act on the 
information provided to it by B.
However, once Lantern removed Mr E as a guarantor, it should have also updated this 
information with the credit reference agencies, which should have included removing any 
defaults that had been recorded. Lantern has accepted that it should have done this sooner. 
So, its now for me to decide if the £100 Lantern has already offered Mr E is enough to put 
things right here, and I think it is. 
When considering what might amount to fair compensation in these circumstances, I have 
considered what happened, the impact this had and our general approach to distress and 
inconvenience awards, which can be found on our website.
Mr E has explained that as a result of the default incorrectly on his credit file, he was unable 
to borrow money at a reasonable rate, declined for credit and unable to rearrange his 
mortgage. Hes also said he had been caused a lot of distress. 
Im sorry to have read about the stressful time Mr E went through as a result of Lanterns 
error. I can understand it must have been worrying for him to not know if or when the default 
would be removed. Mr E also told us hed been declined credit as a result of the default; 
however, when asked he hasnt been able to provide this service with any evidence of this. 
Lantern certainly should have been quicker at removing the default from Mr Es credit file, 
but I dont think more compensation is warranted here. I havent seen any evidence of Mr E 
having been declined for credit or having to pay more for credit. Even if I had seen this, it 
would be difficult for me to find that the declined or more expensive credit was as a result of 
the default. For all of these reasons, I think the £100 Lantern has already offered is a fair 
distress and inconvenience payment in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Lantern to 
do anything more for Mr E.  It isnt clear if Lantern has paid the £100 to Mr E yet or not. If it hasnt, it should still do this, if 
Mr E wishes to accept it. 
I have noted Mr Es comments that he wants this service to fine Lantern for what it has done 
wrong. But it isnt the role of this service to fine or punish businesses for mistakes it has 
made.
My final decision
For the rules set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
However, Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd should pay Mr E the £100 it has already 
offered him, if it hasnt done this already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman