DRN-3117128
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Think Money Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2018, Think Money received notification that a bank account had been opened with them 
fraudulently. The victim of impersonation provided photo ID to show they were the person 
whose name it had been opened in. They confirmed it was not their account.
The account had been opened using Mr Os mobile phone and email address. It received 
money from another account in Mr Os control.
Mr O says it was his employees account, who had received wages and who had access to 
his business phone as part of their job. He also said they were a family friend. He didnt 
know why theyd used his business phone number or his email address to set up the 
account. He couldnt provide any evidence that this person worked for him or that he knew 
them. He said it was too long ago, he didnt keep records, and theyd relocated since. The 
name he gave for this employee was different to the name of the victim.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that the account had been opened using Mr Os contact details, it had been confirmed 
as fraudulent by the genuine victim, and Mr O had not provided any evidence to back up his 
version of events.
Mr O didnt agree. He said hed reported the employee to the police about this, but the name 
he gave this time was both substantially different to the name hed called that employee 
before and the name of the victim. He said hed made payments to the account with wage 
in the reference which evidenced they were wages for an employee.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Think Money were not required to prove beyond all 
reasonable doubt that Mr O had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable 
grounds to believe that hed impersonated someone, which went beyond a suspicion or 
concern, and which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered 
everything that both sides have said and provided, Ive found that Think Money did have 
sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why.
This account was set up in someone elses name using Mr Os contact details. Mr O has 
said this was done by an employee who had access to his business phone. But I cant see 
why theyd use a shared business phone number instead of their own. And according to the 
contact notes, they also corresponded with Think Money using a different mobile number of 
Mr Os  not just the alleged business phone. So it seems most likely this was Mr O rather 
than an employee.
Important emails about the account were sent to Mr Os address  the same email address 
he gave our service. And Mr O has not accounted for how the employee would have access 
to his email, nor why theyd use that address instead of their own. Further, Mr O received 
key emails about this account. So if this account was set up without his knowledge or 
consent, Id expect Mr O to have questioned it at the time. I dont think it was plausible or 
likely that this email address was used by an employee, but I do think it fits with Mr O having 
set up the account.
Mr O says this account was set up by someone who worked for him at the time. But hes not 
been able to provide a single piece of substantial evidence to show that this was an 
employee of his. For example, he could have provided a contract, payslips, PAYE data, 
employee records, correspondence about their employment, and so on. Some of these 
things he would have been required to keep for longer than has passed. And 2018 was not 
nearly long enough ago that Id expect all the employees data to have vanished without a 
trace. So I do not find Mr Os reasons for the lack of evidence to be plausible or likely.
Mr O pointed out that payments from his business to the disputed account contain 
references to wages. I understand he feels this proves they were wage payments. But I dont 
find this to be significant. People can broadly put what they like in the reference field  it 
doesnt actually show what the payment was for in reality.
Further, Mr O says this person was not only an employee, but a family friend. So Mr O would 
have known them really quite well. Id expect him to be able to produce some substantial 
evidence that he had a relationship with this person. But he has produced none. Our 
investigator offered to speak to them on Mr Os behalf, but he wasnt even able to provide 
any contact details.
I should also point out that Mr O has referred to this person using two different names. And 
those names are not only substantially different to each other, but are substantially different 
to the actual name of the person whose name this account was set up in. It doesnt seem 
likely that Mr O really knew this person when he does not appear to know their name. And it 
makes it very difficult for me to believe his side of the story when its so contradictory.
Mr O says hes reported this employee to the police. Hes not sent us a copy of this report. 
But in any case, as above, the person he says he reported is not the person in whose name 
this account was set up.
The person whose name this account was set up in reported it as fraudulent. They provided 
photographic ID to show they were who they said they were. Think Money ran checks with 
the relevant databases to verify they really were the victim of fraud. And they cross-checked 
this with information from other sources. So I can be reasonably satisfied that this was a 
case of impersonation. It was not a genuine employees account, as Mr O has claimed.In summary, this account was set up using Mr Os contact details, and received money from 
Mr O. Correspondence about the account was sent to Mr Os email address, and contact 
was made with Think Money using two mobile phone numbers of Mr Os. The person in 
whose name the account was set up has confirmed they were a victim of impersonation. And 
Mr O has provided an inconsistent and implausible explanation for what happened, which he 
has not been able to evidence  even where it should be fairly straightforward to do so. 
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr O set 
up this account in someone elses name.
So taking everything into account, I find that Think Money acted reasonably by registering 
the appropriate marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its 
a difficult message for Mr O to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman