DRN-3606252
The complaint
Ms C complains through her representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan.
What happened
Everyday provided Ms C with a loan of £2,000 on 27 November 2017, repayable over 24 
months in monthly instalments of £208.52. She settled the loan in November 2019.
Ms C complained to Everyday that the loan was unaffordable to her.
Everyday said it carried out verification checks, including a credit check, verifying her 
income, reviewing her latest bank statement, and assessing her living expenses using ONS 
(Office for National Statistics) data. It assessed that the loan was affordable.
Ms Cs representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our adjudicator 
said that Ms C had struggled to pay her existing debts as she had several defaulted 
accounts on her credit file. Her credit commitments also represented a significant proportion 
of her income. So she thought it unlikely Ms C wouldve been able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for the loan.
Everyday disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms C 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Cs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms C undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms C. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan represented a considerable commitment to Ms C. So Everyday should have done a 
through assessment of her financial circumstances before providing any loan.
Ms C had several short term loans which it was proposed to pay off with the loan  two of 
them were paid by Everyday before releasing the balance of the loan to Ms C. When taking 
into account the loans that were paid off, and the new loan instalments this meant that she 
would still be spending about 30% of her income on credit commitments. This in my view is a 
high figure and a possible indication of a greater risk of her not being able to afford the loan.
Everyday assessed that Ms C would have had about £253 monthly disposable income after 
paying off the loans, which on paper looked affordable. But Ms C had three credit cards and 
a mail order account that were marked as being in default, within the previous year. Also 
Everydays record showed five defaulted short term loan accounts. The bulk of the loans 
were being paid off or had a small balance left and the balances on the credit cards were all 
less than £200. 
However the fact that Ms C was apparently unable to pay such small balances is a clear 
indication in my view that she was already struggling to pay her loans. Coupled with the fact 
that the defaults were recent, with the number of active short term loans, I think she would 
have been unlikely to be able to afford the new loan repayments.
So, in my view, although the checks carried out by Everyday were proportionate I think those 
checks should have led it to conclude that the loan repayments were unaffordable. So I dont 
think it made a fair lending decision.Putting things right
Ms C has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Ms C as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Ms C has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Ms Cs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited  trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman