DRN-3965374
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs T and Mr T have a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA which covers their home 
and its contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim in January 2020 after a water leak from an Xmas tree damaged their 
conservatory floor.
RSA sent a contractor to assess the damage and scope the required repair work. In 
attempting to lift part of the flooring, the contractor damaged Mrs T and Mr Ts electric 
underfloor heating.
The contractor accepted responsibility for that damage and RSA asked Mrs T and Mr T to 
obtain quotes for repairs to the heating system.
Mrs T and Mr T obtained a quote for around £5,800, to cover repairs to both heating system 
and the flooring. However, they say RSA delayed agreeing to the quote.
And they say RSA wouldnt at first pay the VAT element in advance. They say RSA then 
suggested the supplier submit an invoice  including VAT  before the work was actually 
done.
Mrs T and Mr T say their supplier didnt want to carry on with the work on that basis. And 
they say they couldnt then find another supplier willing to carry out repairs on the heating 
system.
Mrs T and Mr T say RSA were then responsible for further delays in coming to any 
agreement about how the repairs would be carried out.
They made a complaint to RSA. And when RSA didnt provide any substantive response 
within the permitted eight weeks, they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought RSA should ensure that the underfloor heating 
was repaired, and the flooring replaced. He also thought RSA should pay Mrs T and Mr T 
£400 in compensation for the trouble and upset theyd experienced as a result of the delays 
and indecision.
Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
They think the suggested £400 compensation is too low given the distress and 
inconvenience theyve been caused and the loss of full use of their conservatory over a 
prolonged period.
They also thought our investigators view didnt impose any time limits on RSA carrying out 
the repairs or settling the claim - and that RSA might therefore continue to prevaricate and 
delay without any imperative to get the claim resolved. And they felt it had been unfair for 
RSA to offer a cash settlement without the VAT element up front.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view about what RSA needed to do to put things 
right for Mrs T and Mr T, I issued a provisional decision in this case. 
That gave both RSA and Mrs T and Mr T the chance to provide more information or 
evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision which is this 
services last word on the matter.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, this is a very simple complaint. Mrs T and Mr T made a claim for damage 
to their flooring  which RSA accepted. They then asked RSA to repair the damage 
to their underfloor heating caused by RSAs contractor.
There is no dispute here about what RSA need to do. They need to properly 
indemnify Mrs T and Mr T by putting them back in the position they were in before 
the water leak in late 2019 / early 2020. They need to repair the flooring. And they 
need to repair or replace the underfloor heating.
That was clear by the end of January 2020. By mid-January 2021, when Mrs T and 
Mr T brought their complaint to us, they still had a hole in their conservatory floor  
where the leak occurred and where the contractor pulled up the flooring. And they 
still had underfloor heating which was semi-functioning, because of the damage 
caused by RSAs contractor.
In January 2020, RSA asked Mrs T and Mr T to obtain quotes for the repairs. The 
situation was made slightly more complicated by the fact that the company which 
installed the electric underfloor heating was no longer trading. The system was, in 
RSAs words pioneering 10 years ago and not conventional.
Nonetheless, Mrs T and Mr T found an engineer willing to attempt the necessary 
repairs  and they provided RSA with a quote by March or April 2020. That engineer 
then declined to continue with the work due to the complications over the VAT 
payment. Neither Mrs T and Mr T nor RSA have been able to find another contractor 
willing to attempt the repairs.
That being the case, it seems to me that in order to put Mrs T and Mr T back in the 
position they were in before the leak and the damage caused by their contractor, 
RSA will need to replace the underfloor heating system as a whole  possibly with a 
more conventional system.
Between March / April 2020 and January 2021, as well as the discussions about the 
VAT payment, there were a number of other delays which seem in most cases wholly 
 and in other cases almost wholly - RSAs fault.RSA seem to have been undecided about whether to carry out the repairs or cash 
settle the claim. There was an issue with the quote their own contractor provided for 
repairs to the flooring  which appears to have been entirely miscalculated in the first 
instance.
RSA and the contractor spent no little time asking each other for details about the 
claim that they already had  or should have had.
And RSA seem to have almost washed their hands of the matter and left it to the 
contractor to sort out, despite the fact that Mrs T and Mr T had repeatedly said  
understandably in my view  that they didnt want to deal with the contractor due to 
the errors theyd made on the first visit. It only later became apparent that the 
contractor had put the matter on hold on the basis that Mrs T and Mr T had refused 
to speak to them.
There have also been quite prolonged discussions about the depth of the wood layer 
on Mrs T and Mr Ts existing flooring  which might have been very easily resolved 
by going to inspect it in situ or by asking Mrs T and Mr T to provide a sample of the 
undamaged flooring.
In short, there appear to have been a catalogue of errors, failures to take action and 
mis-communications between RSA and their contractor. All of which led to the 
unnecessary delay in progressing things between around April 2020 and January 
2021, when Mrs T and Mr T brought their complaint to us.
I should be clear at this point that, even though the contractor admitted theyd 
damaged the underfloor heating and indicated their insurer might ultimately pick up 
the bill, Mrs T and Mr T were customers of RSA. And it was for RSA to take control of 
the situation  especially when it became clear there has been a breakdown of trust 
between Mrs T and Mr T and the contractor.
So, Im minded  unless either Mrs T and Mr T or RSA provide any further 
information or evidence in response to this provisional decision - to conclude that 
RSA are responsible for approximately eight months (April 2020  January 2021) 
unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim and the repairs to the damage caused 
by RSAs contractor.
For that period, Mrs T and Mr T have been unable to get full use and/or enjoyment 
from their conservatory. There has been a hole in the floor  which Mrs T and Mr T 
say meant the space couldnt reasonably be used for social events. And the heating 
has been ineffective, which has meant the conservatory couldnt be used at all in the 
colder months. I understand Mrs T was in the habit of using the conservatory for 
home working when the heating was fully functional.
Our website sets out our approach to compensation awards for trouble and upset. 
We say that awards between £300 and £750 might be fair where the impact of a 
mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out - typically, 
over many weeks or months.
In my view, thats the kind of trouble and upset caused to Mrs T and Mr T as a result 
of the unnecessary delays and prevarication caused by RSAs errors.
And because thats gone on for eight months, with increasing stress over that period 
for Mrs T and Mr T as it appeared the problems werent getting any closer to being resolved, Im minded to require RSA to pay an award at the top end of that bracket. 
So, Im suggesting an increase in the compensation proposed by our investigator, 
from £400 to £750.
Our investigator said that RSA should carry out the necessary repairs / replacements 
to the flooring and the underfloor heating, rather than attempt to cash settle the claim.
Im also minded to disagree with that. I dont think its for us to stand in the way if 
RSA want to make a cash offer to Mrs T and Mr T that they might find acceptable. 
And I bear in mind that the policy terms allow RSA to determine how any claim 
should be settled.
However, I would very much hope that wouldnt lead to further prevarication on 
RSAs part about how to deal with the claim  or indeed, prolonged negotiations 
about the exact sum.
I do understand Mrs T and Mr Ts concerns about further delays. So, Im minded to 
suggest that if RSA havent either made a cash offer which has been accepted by 
Mrs T and Mr T or carried out the repairs themselves within three months from the 
date of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance of my final decision (assuming they do accept 
it), then Mrs T and Mr T would be entitled to have their own contractors carry out the 
repairs and present the bill to RSA for payment.
It may be helpful if I clarify the position as regards one or two other issues that have 
arisen in this case.
Mrs T and Mr T dont want the original contractor  who damaged the underfloor 
heating  to carry out any work at their home. I think thats perfectly reasonable. If 
RSA want to settle this claim by carrying out the repairs themselves, they should 
appoint a different contractor to do the work.
Mrs T and Mr T have also asked how RSA should record the claim - and particularly 
the claim value  on their own and any other (external) databases. My view is that 
the claim value should reflect only the costs associated with the repair or 
replacement of the flooring  that is, the costs arising from the original claim after the 
leak of water.
Any costs associated with the repair or replacement of the underfloor heating should 
not be recorded as part of the claim. Those costs have not arisen as a result of an 
insured event, but because of the contractors mistake(s) during the original visit.
In all fairness to them, Mrs T and Mr Ts ability to obtain insurance in future  and/or 
their future insurance premiums - should not be impacted by the errors on the part of 
the contractor which caused the damage to the underfloor heating.
Mrs T and Mr T have said they could have got insurance more cheaply in the last 
year or so if the claim hadnt been outstanding. They found quotes on-line for cover 
at around £40 per annum cheaper if there were no claim.
I dont agree with Mrs T and Mr T on this point. Their record is always going to show 
a claim relating to the water leak in early 2021. As I say, the value on that claim 
should reflect only the costs related to the flooring. But Mrs T and Mr T would not be 
obtaining the premium theyve suggested (for a customer with no recent claims) 
given that they have in fact made a claim recently.Finally, Mrs T and Mr T objected very strongly to RSA insisting that theyd only pay 
the VAT element of the claim after an invoice for the work had been produced.
It is reasonably standard practice for insurers to do that. Its not appropriate to pay 
VAT if the insurer isnt certain that the work will in fact be done by the company 
providing the quote (or at all). At its very worst, that could lead to allegations of 
defrauding HMRC.
Wed usually say that its acceptable to pay a quote in advance but retain the VAT 
element - to be paid when the policyholder provides proof of completion of the work - 
provided theres no suggestion that will cause financial hardship to the customer 
and/or the work is very costly.
It's also usual for contractors to invoice for work on completion, even if a deposit is 
required before the work is begun. The up-front payment made by the customer is 
rarely as much as the full quote less VAT. And where there are any issues, the 
insurer has the option of asking the contractor to bill them directly for the VAT part of 
the invoice.
So, Im satisfied RSA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in initially suggesting to 
Mrs T and Mr T that they wouldnt pay the VAT element of any invoice in advance.
And for those reasons, I said I was minded to require RSA to: 
pay Mrs T and Mr T £750 in compensation for their trouble and upset; and
cash settle the claim (at a cash amount agreed with Mrs T and Mr T) or complete the 
necessary repairs, at the latest within three months of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance 
of my final decision in this case; or
if the claim is not settled within three months of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance of my 
final decision, pay the full amount of any invoice provided by Mrs T and Mr T for 
completion of the work.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded to say that they accepted the proposed outcome in principle. But they 
werent able to get their contractors to carry out work within three months at the present 
time.  to put it in their words, their lead times on our trades is (sic) longer than the three 
months time you have allotted.
They also said that if they paid Mrs T and Mr T to get the work done themselves, the cost 
would remain on their claim file until theyd recovered the money from the contractor whod 
caused the damage. So, it would be best for all concerned if Mrs T and Mr T were willing to 
speak to the contractor direct, if only to discuss the cash settlement for the damage. 
Mrs T and Mr T responded to my provisional decision after wed told them what RSA had 
said.
They also accepted the decision in principle. They said they werent keen to speak to the 
contractor but would be happy to receive an offer from them by email, given that would 
enable RSA to record the claim costs correctly (as set out in my provisional decision).  
They also said they would provide a quote for the work from a suitable contractor. But they 
were keen that RSA werent given any opportunity to delay things any further by raising questions about the quote or subjecting it to a long-winded or complex approval process.
Their fear is that if RSA are allowed to approve any quote, they will either obstruct or delay 
the process again
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since both parties agree in principle with my provisional decision, I dont now have any 
reason to change the outcome in any fundamental or significant way.
However, I think it is necessary to just clarify what this decision will mean  for RSA and 
Mrs T and Mr T  if Mrs T and Mr T choose to accept it. And what it might means in terms of 
next steps.
I think RSAs response to my provisional decision indicates that they havent completely 
understood what I think the issues are in this case.
To begin with, I should reiterate that the cost of repairing the damage to the underfloor 
heating caused by the contractor when he initially visited Mrs T and Mr T is not a cost which 
should be attributed to any claim. 
Mrs T and Mr T arent making a claim under their policy for the repairs to that damage. They 
are  quite properly and reasonably  asking RSA to repair damage their contractor caused. 
The claim in this case, by contrast, is for the initial damage caused to the flooring by the leak 
from the Xmas tree  and for that alone.
In other words, the damage to the underfloor heating was not caused by an insured event. It 
is not the subject of a claim. The costs to put it right should not be recorded anywhere  now 
or in future  as relating to an insurance claim made by Mrs T and Mr T.
So, any attribution of the actual or potential cost (for repairs to the underfloor heating) is to 
be removed immediately from RSAs records - and from any shared records - relating to 
Mrs T and Mr Ts claims history. 
Those costs should not be taken into account in any way, or affect the premiums offered to 
Mrs T and Mr T, when they apply for insurance  with RSA or anyone else  in future. And 
they should be free to make any such applications as and when they wish  and as soon as 
they wish - without that cost being on their claims record.
That will be the case whether or not its RSA who pay out to Mrs T and Mr T or their 
contractor. And whether or not RSA, if they do pay out, seek to recover and/or succeed in 
recovering those costs from the contractor.
Its not for me to tell RSA how they can achieve this using their own systems and/or 
processes. Im simply saying that they need to dissociate those costs from Mrs T and Mr Ts 
claims records, by whatever means, in order to be fair to Mrs T and Mr T. 
The same underlying principle applies to RSAs comments about their lead time for 
contractors. The bottom line is that Mrs T and Mr T have now waited more than two years to 
have what began as a simple and relatively small area of damage in their conservatory 
repaired. I would have imagined that RSA might find a way to prioritise the work required at Mrs T and 
Mr Ts home. But if that proves impossible, that was accounted for in my provisional 
decision. RSA will either have to pay Mrs T an agreed amount of money to resolve the claim-
related damage and the damage caused by the contractor, or they will have to accept an 
invoice or receipt from Mrs T and Mr T if and when they get the work completed after the 
three months has passed.
Any such invoice or receipt would, of course, have to reflect work done to repair the original 
damage and the damage caused by the contractor  and nothing more. And it would have to 
reflect replacement of the flooring and/or heating system with the same or equivalent 
materials or systems.
I understand Mrs T and Mr Ts reservations about getting into a cycle of yet more delays with 
RSA approval of quotes or invoices. But Im sure theyll understand that I also cant 
legitimately write them what would in effect be a blank RSA cheque.
It would not be unfair or unreasonable for RSA to review and consider any quote provided by 
Mrs T and Mr T  and /or any invoice or receipt, if the work is carried out by Mrs T and 
Mr Ts contractor after the three months RSA have to resolve the matter in a different way. 
But that should only be to check that the proposed or completed works are sufficient to put 
Mrs T and Mr T back in the position they were in before they made the claim  and do not in 
effect amount to betterment. 
It's not my role to hypothesise about what might or might not happen in future and/or what 
the consequences of that would be. But I can say that if in future Mrs T and Mr T feel that 
RSA are further delaying or obstructing the process and/or failing to provide good customer 
service, theyd be entitled to make a further complaint to RSA  and then to us if they arent 
satisfied with RSAs response.
Putting things right
As Ive said, I wont be changing anything fundamental in the outcome I proposed in my 
provisional decision. 
Im still going to require RSA to provide a suitable, agreed cash settlement or carry out the 
repairs within three months of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance of this decision. Or, if that 
doesnt happen, accept an invoice or receipt from Mrs T and Mr T if they get the repairs 
carried out after the three months has passed. 
And Im going to require them to pay £750 in compensation to Mrs T and Mr T for their 
trouble and upset.
However, given the responses to my provisional decision, Im also going to clarify matters by 
adding to my formal decision outcome that RSA cannot record (anywhere) the cost of the 
repairs of the underfloor heating as claim-related. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
permanently remove from any existing claim-related record (on their own or shared 
databases) any reference to the cost of the repairs of the underfloor heating; pay Mrs T and Mr T £750 in compensation for their trouble and upset; and
cash settle the claim (at a cash amount agreed with Mrs T and Mr T) or complete the 
necessary repairs, at the latest within three months of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance 
of my final decision in this case; or
if the claim is not settled within three months of Mrs T and Mr Ts acceptance of my 
final decision, pay the full amount of any invoice provided by Mrs T and Mr T for 
completion of the work.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman