DRN-2808205
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when she applied for a credit card 
ending with the numbers 3041 on a postal application form.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this service. She said she didnt need PPI as she had savings, sick 
pay from her employer and could rely on her partner and family to make her credit card 
repayments. She said no-one explained anything to her, she did not realise it was optional 
and there was no detailed information about the PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldnt be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint for Mrs H, so Ill explain 
why.
Capital One and Mrs H both say she applied for the credit card and PPI on a postal 
application form. She said no-one explained anything to her at the time of the sale. I have 
seen Mrs H's credit card application form. It was addressed to her in her former name, so I 
can reasonably assume the form was sent to Mrs Hs home and she completed it without 
talking to Capital One staff. So it doesn't surprise me that Capital One staff were not 
around to explain anything to her.
I can see from the copy of the original postal application form that Mrs H signed the form 
to say she wanted to be enrolled in the payment protection scheme. I did see that the 
form had Mrs H's personal details and her annual salary. So I can reasonably assume 
that Mrs H completed these details and had ticked the PPI Yes box on the form. I noted 
she could have ticked "No" - so as she had that clear choice, I think PPI was shown to be 
an optional product. This means I think its likely Mrs H knew she had a choice about 
taking out PPI and ticked the box because she wanted it.
Capital One said the sale was non-advised - and this is most likely as there was no 
interaction with Capital One staff for Mrs H's postal application. For non-advised sales, 
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Mrs H, it just gave her information about PPI 
so that she could make an informed choice about buying it.
Capital One told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely 
Mrs H would have received some documents with the application form that would have 
given her the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. That being 
said even if Capital One did give all the information Mrs H needed to make an informed 
choice, I think she would have taken the policy because at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI because she satisfied the age, country of 
residence and employment status requirements.
I dont think she would have been caught by any of the main things not 
covered by the policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make 
a successful claim. So I dont think that more detailed information about the 
exclusions would have put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs H said she didnt have any savings, but she told us she would get sick pay 
from her employer. So I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in 
addition to her employee benefits if she made a successful claim. And I think she 
could have seen PPI as a useful benefit.
I dont know how Capital One explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mrs H. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 2000, so I dont think that more 
detailed information would have put her off from buying PPI. So as I think she chose to 
have PPI because she wanted it, I think she bought the policy as it was probably of 
benefit to her.
I noted Mrs H said she could rely on her partner and her family to make her credit card 
repayments. I do understand the point she is making. However, there was no guarantee 
that she could still rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I think the 
PPI was still useful for her.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional. And I think 
the information was probably clear enough for her to make an informed decision. So 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
All of the above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
H. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including what she has said about her 
savings, sick pay and help from her partner and family. But these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman