DRN-1924373
 
The complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.    Mr 
L says he was trying to break the cycle of debt he was in. He had to borrow further to repay 
current lending.                            
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans PDL provided to Mr L between May 2018 and 
October 2019. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 24/05/2018 08/10/2019 3 £300.00 £184.00
2 16/10/2019 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £255.33
 
When Mr L complained to PDL it didnt uphold his complaint. But it did say it would discount 
the then outstanding debt amount of £434.42 on loan two and that no more monies would be 
owed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They thought that the checks carried out by 
PDL didnt give any cause for concern that would suggest it should carry out further checks. 
Mr L didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said he had another complaint which would show 
that the lending was irresponsible. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. After doing so, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I should first explain that when considering a complaint this service treats each complaint on 
its own particular merits and circumstances. So, while I appreciate Mr L has referred to 
another complaint, the same circumstances do not apply to this complaint. 
PDL has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to each loan. Mr L confirmed his 
monthly income was £1,660 for both of the loans. His expenditure each month was £660 for 
loan one and £960 for loan two. There was no evidence of IVA, bankruptcy or debt 
management plans on his credit file prior to the loans being approved. So, on the face of it 
the lending would appear affordable on a pounds and pence basis and it wasnt 
unreasonable for PDL to have agreed to lend to Mr L. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr L provided to PDL which would have caused it to be concerned that he 
was having problems managing his finances.
Its possible that Mr Ls financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information PDL obtained. And if his circumstances were different Mr Ls actual financial position may well have been more apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
Mr L has given us a copy of his bank statements from around the time of the borrowing and I 
see there was other short-term lending, but I wouldnt have expected PDL to have gathered 
such detailed information at the point of lending to him. 
PDL could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. That 
information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending relationship  I dont 
think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable or unsustainable for 
Mr L. 
In these circumstances, I dont think PDL needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr L for evidence of his income and outgoings which 
PDL could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as examples. I 
have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by PDL before it lent to 
Mr L. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led PDL to conclude that it 
should decline Mr Ls applications for the loans. And there isnt anything to have prompted it 
to ask for more information about Mr L. So, I dont think PDL was wrong to have provided 
these loans, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments PDL did for the loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr L wasnt unreasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Mr Ls complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I hope I 
have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
It is for Mr L to decide whether to accept PDLs offer to discount the outstanding balance on 
his account, if it is still available to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman