DRN-4071070
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Yorkshire Building Society Plc wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed the responses to my provisional decision, Ive not changed my 
mind about the outcome to Mrs Ss complaint. Ill respond to what I think are the key points: 
I realise its both hugely frustrating and disappointing that the outcome Ive reached is 
different to our investigators. But my role is to independently decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, meaning that I may depart 
from what the investigator said before. 
Mrs S has raised the planned changes to better protect victims if they do fall victim to 
an authorised push payment scam. But these changes havent been implemented 
yet nor is the precise detail known. So I dont consider I can reasonably hold 
Yorkshire Building Society to them. 
Equally, Yorkshire Building Society isnt required to have implemented Confirmation 
of Payee until the end of October 2023. And even if it had it at the time, I note Mrs S 
wouldnt have received a warning  as its designed to check the name of the 
account holder (which wouldve matched), rather than the recipient bank. I recognise 
Mrs Ss point she wouldve still been put off by the different recipient bank, but I find 
it equally possible that she wouldve been reassured by the match  or been 
subsequently reassured by the fraudster that all was well. So this doesnt change my 
mind. 
Ive also noted Mrs Ss frustration that Yorkshire Building Society isnt signed up to 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model. But I cant fairly ignore that its a voluntary 
code. Its open to firms to offer things that others do not, and that doesnt mean I can 
reasonably hold everyone to some firms decisions to offer more. Here, it remains 
theres currently no general expectation for firms to reimburse victims of scams in 
these circumstances. Therefore, I need to be persuaded that Yorkshire Building 
Society is at fault for failing to stop or recover her loss. 
Mrs S has explained why she considers that Yorkshire Building Society shouldve 
been concerned with the payment. And I accept its possible to distinguish it from 
others she made. But I remain persuaded it wasnt so unusual, suspicious or out of 
character that Yorkshire Building Society ought to have stepped in. To be clear, my 
conclusion isnt based on one factor alone. Instead, its looking at everything 
together  for example, the nature of the account, the value of the payment, that new 
payees have been created before, and how this didnt entirely empty her savings. 
On the latter point, I recognise Mrs Ss point that its not indicative of this particular 
scam. But it remains an indicator of fraud generally, which is why Ive considered it. 
Ive finally noted Mrs Ss submission that Yorkshire Building Society told her it 
doesnt allow for accounts to be monitored. Im not convinced it said it doesnt  but 
more, that it's difficult given the nature of the accounts it offers to detect whats 
unusual. My provisional findings also highlighted that the nature of Mrs Ss account  
for easy access savings  means that large withdrawals arent generally unusual.
And regardless of what Yorkshire Building Society actually does, Ive still assessed 
this against the expectation that it ought to monitor accounts for transactions that 
suggest Mrs S is at risk from fraud. But, for the reasons explained here and in my 
provisional findings, I dont think it shouldve intervened here. And because I also 
dont think it could have done more to recover her loss, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably hold Yorkshire Building Society liable. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. For completeness, Ive also included my 
provisional decision again below: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Yorkshire Building 
Society is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs S was scammed. But because she went through the steps 
to make the payment herself, its regarded as an authorised payment under the 
PSRs. So the starting position is that shes liable for it.
There are some situations where we believe that Yorkshire Building Society  taking 
into account relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a 
fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the 
transaction before making the payment.
Ive considered whether Yorkshire Building Society ought to have realised Mrs S was 
at risk from fraud. If it failed to intervene appropriately when it should have done, and 
that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
This was an easy access savings account, so I consider the starting position is that 
its not unusual for someone to make large withdrawals  its usually what theyre 
intended for.
In the preceding 12 months before the payment, Mrs S regularly made withdrawals, 
including some for significant amounts  there was a payment for around £12,000 
two months prior and one for around £6,000 six months prior. I realise the 
withdrawals often went to an account in Mrs Ss name. But there were also 
withdrawals to new payees, which were allowed for the sort of account she had. It 
follows that I dont think the amount of the transaction here or its destination to a 
new payee ought to have stood out as particularly unusual.
Ive also considered how the payment didnt drain Mrs Ss balance, something that 
could look suspicious  instead, it used around 30% of her overall balance.
I have taken into account that the payment went to an Electronic Money Institution (EMI), whose accounts can be more frequently used by fraudsters. But considering 
all the factors Ive described above, I dont think thats enough to say that the 
payment here was so unusual, suspicious or out of character, that Yorkshire Building 
Society ought to have intervened. And, in the circumstances, I consider it reasonable 
that it didnt detect a fraud risk  so simply processed the payment in line with 
Mrs Ss instructions.
As well as considering whether Yorkshire Building Society ought to have prevented 
Mrs Ss loss, Ive considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. Ive 
noted it contacted the EMI on the same day Mrs S reported the scam, but no funds 
remained. So I dont think theres more it ought to have done here.
I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for Mrs S, who was a victim of a cruel 
and convincing scam. But this was an authorised push payment scam and 
Yorkshire Building Society isnt a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model, 
which is voluntary  so I cant fairly hold it to standards it hasnt agreed to. That 
means my consideration isnt focussed on the sophistication of the scam  its simply 
whether Yorkshire Building Society is at fault for failing to stop, or recover, her loss. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded it is.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman