DRN-3320023
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) charged him for a parking fine that 
wasnt valid, charged him for additional days hire of his vehicle when a delay in collecting it 
was their fault, and didnt take into account that his car had travelled much less than the 
mileage allowance when he handed the vehicle back.
 
What happened
Mr B entered a hire agreement for a new car in June 2018. Mr B agreed to a total allowance 
of 60,000 miles, and the agreement ended in June 2020. 
In March 2020 Mr B contacted Hitachi as his income had been affected by the coronavirus 
pandemic (Covid-19). He said the agreement only had two payments left, and hed only 
travelled around 30,000 miles in the vehicle, so he asked for the final two payments to be 
waived. 
Hitachi didnt agree to waive the payments. They gave Mr B breathing space for his April and 
May payments. This meant they werent collected, but they would fall due in the future. They 
said the agreement didnt allow for a refund where the full mileage allowance wasnt used. 
In June 2020 Mr B discussed a possible extension of the agreement with Hitachi. But he 
wasnt happy with the quotation provided and thought the monthly payments shouldve been 
lower due to the low mileage of the vehicle. Mr B complained to Hitachi about them not 
considering the reduced mileage on the vehicle.
Mr Bs agreement ended in June 2020, and he chose to return the vehicle. The vehicle 
wasnt collected until the middle of July 2020, and Hitachi invoiced Mr B for additional days 
hire. There was an invoice for 25 June to 1 July 2020 for £157.68 which wasnt paid, and a 
separate invoice for 1 July to 10 July 2020 for £211.46 which Hitachi debited from Mr Bs 
account. 
Hitachi sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in August 2020. They said the 
agreement didnt allow a refund for unused mileage. The quote to extend the agreement was 
based on a number of factors, and Mr B ultimately chose to return the vehicle. They didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B told Hitachi that he didnt think theyd responded fully to his complaint, and also 
complained about the charge for additional days hire, and a parking fine that had been 
added to his account. 
In October 2020 Mr B complained again about the charge for additional days hire. Hitachi 
agreed to credit this to his account as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B didnt accept that it was a 
gesture of goodwill, he said it had been charged incorrectly in the first place. 
In February 2021 Mr B received an arrears notice for unpaid sums and complained to Hitachi 
about this.  
In June 2021 Mr B received a default notice and complained to Hitachi about this. 
Mr B didnt receive a response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service for 
investigation. 
Hitachi told us that they received the parking fine in May 2019, and transferred liability of it to 
Mr B, which wouldve allowed him to dispute it. When they received notice that the fine had 
been escalated, and the amount due would increase in June 2019, they paid it and added 
the balance to Mr Bs account.
They said Mr Bs outstanding arrears were £1,468.68, made up of the two monthly rentals at 
£655.50 plus £157.68 for the contract extension that wasnt paid, and £50 for the parking 
fine. They said the delay in collecting the vehicle was their fault, so theyd remove the 
extension invoice still on the account, and refund the one already paid by Mr B. But the two 
rentals and the parking fine were still due, so the arrears and the default had been correctly 
recorded. 
Our investigator gave his view that the offer put forward by Hitachi was fair. He said the 
parking fine was fairly charged, the agreement didnt allow for a refund for any unused 
mileage, so Mr B needed to pay for the two months rentals which hadnt been paid. He said 
the invoices for the extension of the agreement werent fairly charged and so should be 
removed from the account. 
Mr B didnt accept this offer. He said the extension charges should never have been made, 
one was taken from his account without his authority, and Hitachi had reported information 
which affected his credit file whilst the dispute was ongoing which he wanted them to 
remove. 
Our investigator gave his view that he didnt think the charge had been taken without 
authority, as Mr B had a direct debit mandate in place, and Hitachi were able to use this to 
take any funds due under the agreement. He said as there had been missed payments, he 
thought Hitachi had reported correct information to the credit reference agencies, and so he 
didnt recommend they remove the adverse information recorded. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the parking fine was cancelled, adverse information shouldnt 
have been recorded whilst the amount was in dispute, and Hitachi shouldnt have taken the 
payment for the extension from his account. Mr B would like the information removed from 
his credit file, and for the final two payments to be waived as compensation for this distress 
and inconvenience of the situation, and as recompense for the vehicle being returned some 
22,000 miles under the agreed mileage allowance. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Parking fine
Mr B told this service that the owner of the business where he received the parking fine told 
him itd been cancelled, so he wouldnt need to pay this sum. 
Ive seen evidence that Hitachi received the fine initially, and transferred liability of the fine to 
Mr B, which wouldve given him the opportunity to dispute the fine. However, Hitachi received notice that the fine was unpaid and still due, and that it would increase if it wasnt 
paid. So, although Mr B was under the impression itd been cancelled, this wasnt the case. 
The agreement says that Hitachi are able to charge Mr B the full amount of any motoring or 
parking fines and any other charges they have to pay, plus an administration charge. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Hitachi to pay the fine to prevent it from increasing, and the 
agreement allows them to add it to Mr Bs account. Im satisfied that this charge remains 
payable by Mr B. 
Additional days hire
Hitachi have charged Mr B for a total of sixteen days extra hire of the vehicle, as it wasnt 
collected by the agreement end date. Theyve said this was because their collection agents 
were unable to collect the car in a timely manner as a result of Covid-19. Its not clear if Mr B 
continued to use the vehicle during this time, but Hitachi have offered to refund or remove 
these charges, and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr B said the additional days hire should never have been charged, and because they were 
incorrect charges, the one that was taken by direct debit was done without his authority. 
Under the payments section of the agreement it says: 
In respect of any other amounts due under this agreement (including recharges), the due 
date for payment is 30 days from the date on our invoice which you agree may be taken by 
direct debit
So, Hitachi were able to take any amount due under the agreement by direct debit. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr B doesnt think the additional hire amount was due, the car wasnt 
returned at the end of the agreement, and so he was billed for the extra days of hire. Hitachi 
have since confirmed this delay was as a result of Covid-19, and theyll waive these fees, but 
this doesnt mean they couldnt be taken by direct debit under the terms of the agreement. 
So, I dont think this payment was taken without Mr Bs authority. 
Unused mileage
Mr B has said that he returned the vehicle with much less mileage than the agreed mileage 
allowance, and hes asked Hitachi to compensate him for this in various ways: first by asking 
for the last two payments to be waived before they were due; then by asking for a lower 
monthly payment to be arranged on an extension of the agreement; and finally by asking for 
the last two payments to be written off after they became due. 
Hitachi didnt agree to the proposals put forward by Mr B. 
The agreement doesnt contain a term by which Mr B would receive a refund if the vehicle 
was returned with less miles than the allowance. The allowance is the maximum permitted, 
and its not unusual for vehicles to be returned under this allowance. 
I appreciate that Mr B covered fewer miles than he expected to when he entered the 
agreement, but as this didnt form part of the contract, I find Hitachi dont need to do anything 
more in respect of the lower mileage that Mr B travelled. 
Unpaid paid monthly rentals and credit record
Mr B told Hitachi he was in financial difficulty as a result of Covid-19, and they offered him 
breathing space on two payments for April and May 2020. This means that Mr B didnt need to make these payments at the time, but they would need to be repaid at the end of the 
agreement. 
Mr B asked for these payments to be waived because of the low mileage, but Hitachi didnt 
agree to this as set out above. Mr B didnt make these payments or agree to enter any 
arrangement in order to repay them once the contract had come to an end. 
Ive explained above why I dont think Hitachi needed to compensate Mr B for returning the 
car under the mileage allowance. So, it follows that Mr B is responsible for the two monthly 
payments that havent been paid. 
Hitachi have recorded these missed payments on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B has asked for this 
adverse information to be removed, as he believes it shouldnt have been reported while the 
amount was in dispute. Hitachi have a duty to ensure accurate information is reported to 
credit reference agencies. Im satisfied that these payments were due to be made by Mr B, 
and they werent. He also didnt enter an agreement to make them, so I find that Hitachi 
acted reasonably in reporting missed payments in relation to Mr Bs account. 
Putting things right
Hitachi have made an offer to remove the charges for the additional days hire from Mr Bs 
account, and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must remove the outstanding charge of £157.68 for the unpaid 
additional hire invoice, and refund Mr B £211.46 for the paid invoice for additional days hire. 
Hitachi should add 8% interest to this refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Mr B is responsible for the remaining outstanding charges, so Hitachi can deduct the refund 
from the amount left to be paid by Mr B. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must: 
Remove the outstanding charge of £157.68 for the unpaid additional hire invoice
Refund Mr B £211.46 for the paid invoice for additional days hire plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Hitachi can deduct the refund from the amount left to be paid by Mr B.
If Hitachi considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman