DRN-3537184
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund the money she paid 
for a car. She says the seller was fraudulent and she has lost out as a result. 
What happened
Miss G has explained she saw an advertisement for a second-hand car for sale on an online 
auction website. Shes told us that she had a video call to view the vehicle and her partner 
exchanged messages with the seller and spoke with him at length, asking relevant questions 
regarding the condition of the car. Shes said the car was described to them as immaculate 
and in perfect condition. Miss G told us that she also completed a MOT and HPI check on 
the vehicle, which both came back with no concerns.
A price was agreed for the vehicle and a deposit of £500 was paid (this deposit was made by 
Miss Gs partner from a different bank account and doesnt form part of this complaint). The 
seller was over 100 miles away and although Miss G has said she was willing to collect the 
vehicle, the seller explained that he owned a transport company so would be able to deliver 
it to her.
The car was delivered as agreed on 13 September 2021 and, on receiving the car, Miss G 
paid the balance of £3,000 through her mobile banking. But the following morning Miss G 
has said there was severe oil all over the drive. Miss G has told us the car had been 
delivered late at night so they hadnt been able to see the oil leak. She contacted the seller 
about the problems, but he claimed not to know anything about the issues with the car. Miss 
G has said she arranged for the car to be checked out at a garage, and was told that it 
needed a new engine that would cost between £1,500 - £2,500, excluding labour costs, 
making the car worthless to her.
Miss G said she then carried out her own research into the history of the vehicle and 
contacted the previous owner, who told her that they had sold the car to the seller for spares 
and repairs for £300. Because of this Miss G says the seller was aware the car was 
valueless and hes sold it on for his own personal gain. She added that shed found the 
same seller was selling other vehicles and using the same story that she was given, in that 
the vehicles were being sold after somebody had passed away.
Miss G told us that the car was still sitting on her drive and it couldnt be driven as it was too 
dangerous. Shes said she hasnt had any works or repairs carried out on the car and it 
hadnt moved, adding that she and her partner had to borrow money from family, so they 
could get another car.
Miss G raised the matter with NatWest as she believes she has been the victim of an 
authorised push payment scam. She said that although she received the goods, they were 
not fit for purpose, extremely dangerous and not as described. She added that NatWest 
hadnt protected or warned her by sending a text of this fraudulent transaction. 
NatWest looked into the concerns that Miss G had raised. It considered its obligations under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of which it is a signatory and sent its 
final response on 9 December 2021, not upholding Miss Gs complaint. It deemed the matter 
to be a buyer/seller dispute between Miss G and the car dealer. 
Miss G then brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things 
but didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. In summary, she considered this was a dispute 
between Miss G and the seller, who she had made the payment to, so she didnt think the 
payment was covered under the CRM Code. 
Our investigator didnt think the evidence demonstrated Miss G had been scammed. She 
explained that through her investigation she could see that, since Miss G had taken 
ownership, the car had passed a MOT (in March 2022), with only an advisory regarding an 
oil leak (which was noted as not excessive). Considering Miss G had said no repairs or 
works had been carried out on the car, our investigator concluded the evidence suggested 
the car was roadworthy when Miss G bought it.
Our investigator added that the details of the mileage on the MOT suggested that the car 
had also been driven, since Miss G had taken ownership of it. Our investigator didnt think it 
was unreasonable that a car with the age and mileage of the one Miss G bought, may come 
with some issues. Overall, our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong by 
deeming this as a dispute between a buyer and a seller.
Miss G didnt agree with our investigators view as she maintained that she believes this was 
a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require NatWest to 
refund the money Miss G sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Miss G was 
hoping for and I can understand why she wants to try and recover this money. But having 
thought about NatWests actions, I am unable to say it has responsibility for refunding the 
money Miss G sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When NatWest made 
the payment, it was complying with Miss Gs instructions. At the time, Miss G wanted to pay 
the seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account 
details. As I dont think NatWest acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it should have refunded Miss G for any other reason. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which NatWest has signed up to and was 
in force at the time Miss G made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Miss G made and, in particular, whether NatWest ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Miss G made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. 
Miss G strongly disagrees. She feels the seller has scammed her. From what I have seen, 
although I accept Miss G may not have received a car that was in as good a condition as 
she expected, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Miss G finds herself in is a scam.
I think the payment Miss G made does form part of a civil dispute and, as such, is not 
covered by the CRM Code. 
This means I dont think NatWest is responsible for reimbursing Miss G because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. I can appreciate why Miss G feels she has been deceived.
She was under the impression the car was in perfect condition when she bought it. But I am 
mindful that Miss G did receive the car for the money she paid. Alongside this I can see that 
the car passed its MOT in March this year, when in Miss Gs possession. Considering Miss 
G has confirmed to us that she hadnt had any repairs carried out on the vehicle since shed 
bought it, Im persuaded this shows that the car was roadworthy when she bought it. 
With the evidence that is available to me, I cant fairly or reasonably say the seller was not 
legitimate and had set out to deceive Miss G. There is no dispute that the car exists, as Miss 
G has taken ownership of it, and Ive not seen anything that makes me think the person 
selling it did not have the right to sell it (i.e. Ive not seen anything to suggest the car had 
been reported as stolen). 
The problems Miss G has raised stem back to the condition of the vehicle  she said the car 
was not fit for purpose and not as described it was not of a satisfactory quality when it was 
delivered to her. But this is an issue thats clearly stated as not being catered for within the 
CRM Code.
Alongside this, Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the circumstances of 
this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud. The seller, at least for a time, was still contactable after 
Miss G had made the payment. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often 
than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. 
Miss G has my sympathy, in that she hasnt received a car that was in the condition she had 
hoped for. But overall, I dont think NatWest has treated Miss G unfairly when it concluded 
this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Miss G isnt due a 
refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably bear the responsibility for Miss Gs loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman