DRN-3623955
The complaint
Ms D complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly refused 
her claim for critical illness benefit. Instead of paying her claim, it has voided her policy 
altogether for misrepresentation. To resolve her complaint, Ms D wants her claim to be paid 
in full, with interest.  
What happened
On 18 June 2021, Ms D attended hospital with lower abdominal pain and other symptoms 
including per vaginum (PV) bleeding. She was diagnosed with a type of pelvic inflammatory 
disease (PID). Further issues were noted regarding incorrect placement of Ms Ds 
intrauterine device (the coil) which was suspected to be extending incorrectly into her 
uterine wall. So, it was planned that this would be removed within the next couple of weeks.  
On 23 June 2021, Ms D applied for a term assurance policy online with L&G jointly with her 
husband. The application was lodged on her behalf by an independent financial adviser 
(IFA) and was accepted the same day on standard terms for Ms D (by this time, taking 
insurance as a sole applicant) though it had an exclusion for total and permanent disability 
cover relating to back problems. The policy offered Ms D decreasing life cover and critical 
illness benefit for a 27-year term and had an initial sum assured of £90,500.  
The next day, Ms D completed an online checking your details (CYD) confirmation to L&G 
regarding the accuracy of the answers she gave on the application submitted by the IFA. 
She made no changes to the answers she had already given in her application. 
The removal of the coil was attempted on 30 June 2021. However, this was unsuccessful, 
and Ms D was referred for minor surgery to remove it.  
On 12 July 2021, Ms D underwent her day surgery. However, during the course of this 
procedure it was suspected that she may have a type of cervical tumour. Sadly, histological 
confirmation of a type of cervical cancer was given to Ms D on 16 July 2021.  
Ms D therefore made a claim to L&G for critical illness benefit the following month. She 
supplied completed claim forms to L&G in September 2021. L&G thereafter sought medical 
evidence and also spoke with both Ms D about her application with the IFA. 
Ms D said the cover sought was merely to replace cover that had lapsed, and she had 
actually met with the IFA about it from April onwards She had given the IFA the answers to 
her questions in May 2021 before any issues arose. 
However, in January 2022 L&G declined the claim. It voided Ms Ds policy altogether on the 
grounds of misrepresentation and returned the premiums she had paid. It said some 
questions on the policy had been incorrectly answered and uncorrected. Ms D was 
responsible for her medical information not the IFA and so she needed to update L&G. 
Since incorrect information was used as the basis for insurance, L&G concluded that a 
misrepresentation had taken place. It said this was best categorised as reckless. If it had 
known the right answers, it could not have insured her until after the surgery to remove the 
coil had been completed and that this was confirmed as the cause of the PV bleeding. 
Ms D complained. She said that in December 2021 she had been told by a call handler that 
her claim was accepted but awaiting signoff from L&Gs reinsurer and she should call back 
in January 2022. When she did this, she was then told that no decision had been made on 
the claim. She also said that if L&G had asked her a specific question or amended its 
gynaecological question to include contraceptive devices, shed have answered differently.  
In March 2022, L&G upheld the complaint in part. It said it had rightfully cancelled the policy 
because the medical information it received confirmed Ms D had a medical history of 
symptoms which predated her policy start date and so these should have been disclosed. 
While L&G understood Ms D felt the questions were ambiguous, it disagreed. If she had 
been unsure, the policy application advised her to disclose anyway but she hadnt done so. 
L&G therefore felt it was fair to conclude that a misrepresentation had taken place. 
It said it understood that the use of the word reckless felt harsh to Ms D, but it was 
categorisation set out by relevant insurance law. And even if it had downgraded the type of 
misrepresentation to careless, it still couldnt have insured her at the time of her diagnosis. 
L&G did agree that it had caused delays by having longer turnaround times than it should 
have when looking at Ms Ds claim. It also misled Ms D during the call she made to chase 
matters in late December 2021; from the information it had, the claim could actually have 
been refused by 1 December 2021. Finally, it agreed it had delayed paying her the premium 
refund and this would be rectified within a working week. It therefore proposed to pay Ms D 
£650 to reflect the combined upset she had suffered. 
Ms D remained unhappy with L&Gs actions and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said:
when she went to A&E in June 2021, she wasnt told she had PID  rather, that she 
had a urinary tract infection (UTI);
her GP issued a letter dated 28 May 2022 confirming her belief;
until 12 July 2021 there was no suggestion or indication that she was suffering with 
cancer and she only learned of this on 16 July 2021.
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed.  Though she 
understood why Ms D hadnt told L&G about (in her view, gynaecological) symptoms, she 
felt a clear question was put to Ms D and she needed to answer it accurately. Having 
reviewed L&Gs underwriting guidelines, she felt it had fairly concluded that it could not have 
offered Ms D cover, but instead postponed it awaiting the outcome of her admission to 
hospital. It had therefore fairly refused the claim now.  
Ms D said she wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She made a number 
of further points, noting: 
this situation had been very stressful for her;
L&G was taking the view that she knew she had cancer  which she did not;
when she was seen at the hospital for her scans, she was told her coil was in place 
and nothing was wrong aside from a UTI;
the application was unclear  she had a contraception issue, not a gynaecological 
one which she believes are different things;her view is that any layperson would consider the coil related to a contraception 
matter;
the only reason she even found out she had cancer was because she pushed for 
removal of the coil, otherwise this matter wouldnt have arisen;
her view is that the wording on these policies ought to be changed regarding 
contraceptive devices;
the disappointment caused by L&G in leading her to believe she would have a claim 
paid only to refuse it has been significant for her;
the compensation L&G has paid is insufficient to reflect that disappointment;
her consultant has referred back to his letter of February 2021 where he said the 
referral for pain at that time should be downgraded from urgent to routine;
the ultrasound scan after that was normal;
Ms D said this showed that there was no risk or issue expected at that time. 
L&G didnt have any further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to learn of Ms Ds diagnosis. I can see from reviewing this file that she has gone 
through a very difficult time. I certainly do not intend to make matters worse for Ms D, but I 
am unable to uphold this complaint. Thats because L&G has correctly voided the policy. Ill 
explain exactly why that is in my findings below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done. 
When it received information from Ms D regarding the claim, it was noted that she suffered 
from PV bleeding and abdominal pain from early 2021, before the policy came into force on 
23 June 2021. On this basis, L&G sent a targeted medical report to Ms Ds GP on 24 
September 2021, covering the relevant period preceding the policy application. The GP 
referenced consultations in May and June 2021 for those symptoms, and in July and August 
2021 letters had been sent to the GP from Dr B, a Consultant Obstetrician and Dr M, a 
Consultant in Clinical Oncology. 
Based on the medical evidence, L&G said its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have 
offered Ms D any life or critical illness cover at all. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Ms D was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the policy. 
The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application. 
That means looking at what was asked against the relevant medical records up to the date 
at which Ms D gave the declaration on the CYD form online  so 24 June 2021.  
Ms D was asked the following, to which she answered no:When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you contacted a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
any gynaecological condition for which you've not yet been discharged from 
follow up, or a cervical smear requiring further investigations?
Please ignore routine cervical smears if the results have been normal.
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 12 
months have you:
been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, 
scan, ECG?
Please ignore investigations related to pregnancy or infertility where the 
results have been confirmed as normal.
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that:
your doctor or nurse told you to contact them about during the next 3 
weeks?
Please ignore consultations for repeat prescriptions and pregnancy.
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth?
The bold sections above are my emphasis on the relevant parts of each question.
Ms D didnt make any disclosures in respect of these questions, either on the electronic 
application through the IFA on 23 June 2021 or on the CYD form of 24 June 2021. 
I appreciate that Ms D says she actually met with the IFA in the two months preceding the 
application being submitted. I accept that she had no idea at or before the time that the 
policy went on risk that she was suffering with cancer, at a particularly young age. But I have 
to be fair to both parties in a complaint. And Ms D completed an application which set out 
how she had read and agreed that:
I am aware that the information provided will form part of the legal relationship 
between us and if any of it is found to be incorrect it may mean that a claim is not 
paid or the policy is amended or cancelled.
I will immediately inform Legal & General in writing if there are any changes to any 
answers given on the application before the policy starts.
Though I consider all of the questions to be clear and unambiguous, I recognise that Ms D 
might not reasonably have identified that she suffered from a gynaecological issue, given her 
explanation. I dont accord with that view, but I do recognise Ms D has given a fair 
explanation as to why she didnt reconcile the PV bleeding and abdominal pain as being of 
gynaecological origin when she feels intrauterine contraceptive devices are a distinct matter. 
I will not be making findings about the reasonableness of that question for two reasons  
firstly, I disagree over the ambiguity as explained above, but secondly because this service 
isnt a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account relevant laws, regulations and best practice.  I also accept that for similar reasons, Ms D did not answer the fourth question positively as 
she believed the PV bleeding to be explained by the issues with the coil and the diagnosis of 
a UTI, later confirmed by the GP as Ms Ds understanding of the situation. 
Nonetheless, I believe that the answer ought to have been amended to yes by Ms D on her 
CYD form for the second and third questions set out above. Ms D had been seen in hospital 
on 18 June 2021. The second question (covering the twelve months preceding the 
application) does not ask why she was seen, but about the event itself  whether she had or 
had not undergone any hospital investigations such as scans. That is a clear question which 
should have been answered positively. As it was, Ms D had also undergone two ultrasounds 
in February 2021 and June 2021 as the PV bleeding had begun in January 2021. I realise 
these scans were deemed normal; but they happened and they were relevant to L&G. 
And, the third question asked if Ms D had any symptom that a doctor or nurse told her to 
contact them about in the next three weeks. At the time of completing the CYD, Ms D was 
awaiting day surgery in the next few weeks to remove her coil because of her symptoms. 
That procedure would involve contact with a doctor. L&G also needed to know about that.  
As these two questions were not answered correctly, I therefore believe there was a 
misrepresentation. Under law, it is a qualifying misrepresentation if it affects the terms an 
insurer could have offered; L&G has supplied underwriting evidence to show is the case. So 
once thats been established, the law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says 
that it should be classed as either deliberate/reckless or careless. The types of 
categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
I am mindful of the relevant Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice on 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly and I will also take account of consumer 
law on disclosure and representations in insurance contracts when deciding what I believe is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
L&G originally considered that the latter, more severe categorisation of reckless - rather than 
deliberate - applied to Ms D. And whilst I know the label of the type of misrepresentation is 
particularly upsetting for her, the terminology was not chosen by L&G. By law, a qualifying 
misrepresentation is careless if it is not deliberate or reckless, with that assessment coming 
on the balance of the evidence by an insurer. 
The ABI Code further confirms that the typical characteristics of reckless misrepresentation 
Reckless - it is clear that the customer had a complete disregard for the question or the 
accuracy of the answer when completing the application and must have understood that the 
information was relevant to the insurer.. 
The law requires that it is for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless. Cases which fall into the deliberate or reckless categorisation are 
rare, and while there will be some circumstances where this categorisation has been set out 
on balance by an insurer I do not consider that threshold of complete disregard for the 
questions was met here. The Code also goes on to set out how this categorisation will not 
apply if a customer has a credible explanation for the misrepresentation having occurred. 
In my view, this situation is best described as careless. It seems to me that Ms D 
considered the application was completed one or two months prior to the IFA and she did 
not reasonably amend the CYD information based on her understanding of the reasons for 
her symptoms being a minor contraceptive matter. 
Careless misrepresentation is defined as applying where the misrepresentation resulted 
from insufficient care  the failure by the customer to exercise reasonable care. This includes anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious 
negligence. I believe Ms Ds actions sit within the higher end of that band. 
In the event of misrepresentation that is either deliberate or reckless, an insurer can void a 
policy altogether  and this is what L&G has already done, returning Ms Ds premiums to 
her. In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and return 
the premiums paid by the customer from the outset.  
L&G has shown us underwriting manual pages regarding postponement and Ms Ds type of 
cervical cancer. This information confirms that the outcome of the investigation for the 
symptoms she had (suspected as caused by her coil) would have been awaited and a three-
month postponement applied. The logic for this is that the symptoms were presumed to be 
caused by the coil (or a UTI or PID) but not confirmed. It was a reasonable response to await 
a confirmed outcome of the surgery, to ascertain if it stopped the symptoms.
By then, Ms D was sadly confirmed as suffering with cancer, and because of the staging of 
her cancer L&G was not able to offer any insurance at all.  
So, the categorisation of the misrepresentation would not have any bearing on the claim 
either way. Im therefore unable to order or compel it to reach a different assessment and 
pay Ms Ds claim, as that is not the appropriate remedy for careless misrepresentation of this 
nature. If L&G had known about Ms Ds relevant medical circumstances, it would not have 
offered her life or critical illness cover once the outcome establishing the reason for her 
symptoms was known. 
Finally, I know Ms D feels that the total £650 she has been offered is insufficient to reflect 
the suffering she has been placed under. Our awards are not punitive; we do not direct 
compensation to discipline businesses. Instead we consider the impact of any actions or 
inactions by a business on a consumer. Guidance about the types of awards we make can 
be found on our website. 
I realise Ms Ds delayed claim refusal and the fact she was led to think the claim would be 
paid for in two weeks was incredibly upsetting for her. But I do believe the £650 payment 
L&G proposed for that upset was a reasonable response where the claim could have been 
fairly refused sooner than it was, without prolonging or confusing matters. I do not believe a 
further payment ought to be directed beyond the £650 already proposed. If Ms D hasnt 
accepted that payment already, I trust L&G will send it to her without delay. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Ms Ds position, I cannot uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman