DRN-4357898
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys Bank) has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a purchase that he made in part by using his Sainsburys  Bank credit card.
What happened
Mr K is represented in his complaint by a family member - but for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
everything as if Mr K had said it.
I set out below Mr Ks version of events and Sainsburys Banks version of those same 
events.
Mr Ks version of events
Mr K employed a third party supplier who Ill refer to as N to supply and install a 
conservatory. Mr K used his Sainsburys Bank credit card to pay N in part.
Mr K is dissatisfied with the conservatory for a number of reasons. Ive summarised those 
reasons below.
1. Mr K considers that the conservatory has not been built in line with what he 
agreed with N. Specifically, the conservatory floor was meant to be level with 
both the adjoining floor in the house and with the exit to the garden. But that is 
not what he got because N built the conservatory with a 5 step down into the 
garden. This requirement was of particular importance to Mr K due to his wife 
having a disability which means shed be unable to manage something she had 
to step over.
2. But he also says (seemingly in the alternative) that the agreement with N was to 
build the floor of the conservatory as low as possible. In particular, this was to be 
achieved by laying the concrete blocks used on their sides.
3. The damp proofing and insulation have been incorrectly fitted.
Whilst the work was in progress Mr K told N he was unhappy with it . Mr K  wanted N to sort 
it out to his satisfaction. N declined to do so. Instead N said if Mr K paid it the final £2,000 he 
owed it then his conservatory would be covered by a guarantee with a  government 
authorised certification body to which N belongs, Ill refer to this body as C. N also told Mr 
K that hed be able to complain to C about the conservatory. 
Therefore Mr K went ahead and paid N the final £2,000 only to find that the conservatory is 
not covered by Ns membership with C. Mr K thinks that N misled him into paying it £2,000 
and he wants that money back. In any event, he considers that the only way to put things 
right is to take down the conservatory and start all over again.
Mr K got nowhere with N, so he complained to Sainsburys Bank. However, in his opinion it 
has not carried out a thorough investigation, for example it has not followed up on some of 
the points he considers to be key. Moreover, Mr K considers Sainsburys Bank has taken far 
too long to look into things.
Sainsburys Banks version of events
Sainsburys Bank responded that because Mr K had used his credit card to pay in part for 
the conservatory Mr K could look to it to help him with his complaint about the conservatory. 
This is because Mr K has the benefit of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) and in 
particular he benefits from Section 75 of the CCA. 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against Sainsburys Bank 
provided certain conditions are met. It follows that potentially in this instance Mr K had a 
claim under Section 75 against Sainsburys Bank.
According to Sainsburys Bank Mr K did raise a claim under Section 75. But Mr K only asked 
it to look at a single issue under that claim. That issue is whether N gave Mr K false 
information about its membership of C that induced Mr K to pay the remaining £2,000 he 
owed it under the contract.
Sainsburys Bank did not agree that N most likely gave Mr K false information. Rather it said 
as far as it could tell N was an active and certified member of C. Specifically, complaints 
about it can be referred to C under the Competent Person Scheme run by C.  Therefore any 
statement N made about its membership and the benefits of that membership was correct. In 
any event the contract between Mr K and N does not refer to the conservatory being covered 
by any scheme run by C, which it indicates suggests N most likely never made such a 
statement anyway.
Sainsburys Bank did not agree it had taken too long to respond to Mr Ks complaint about 
his claim under Section 75.
Therefore, for all of these reasons, Sainsburys Bank declined to uphold Mr Ks claim under 
Section 75.
Dissatisfied, Mr K complained to our service.
Once Mr Ks complaint was with us Sainsburys Bank provided further information. It told us 
at first it was unsure what Mr Ks complaint was about. Specifically, it did not know if Mr K 
was complaining about what he sees as misrepresentation and/or about Ns workmanship. 
So it checked this out with Mr K and told him if he wanted it to look at the quality of the work 
done by N itd need to see an experts report. Mr K responded that he couldnt understand 
why he was being asked to provide this when all he was complaining about was what N had 
told him about its relationship with C.
Further, Sainsburys Bank pointed out that anything N might have said about its membership 
of C was said after Mr K had already entered into the contract with N. Misrepresentation, in 
this context, is a false statement of fact that induced Mr K to enter into the contract. 
Therefore anything N said after Mr K had already entered into the contract cant be 
misrepresentation.
Sainsburys Bank added even if Mr Ks complaint was about the step to the garden, it would 
not have upheld the complaint as there was no breach of contract. This is what Sainsburys 
Bank said about this point:
In addition, contrary to what Mr K advised the purchase agreement confirms a step was to 
be in place, and it states to the lowest possible threshold it does not specify a height 
requirement. There were also limitations due to the type of door that Mr K had chosen which 
had been communicated.
Furthermore, the merchant explained the conservatory was to be installed with a damp 
course, insulation, and timber wall therefore the blocks cannot be laid on their side and they 
must be installed in an upright position. In view of this and given N are a reputable company 
it would appear unlikely that they would inform Mr K to the contrary.
However, despite its stance that the only complaint point it had been asked to look at was 
about what N said to Mr K about C, Sainsburys Bank agreed to let us look at the points 
numbered 1 and 2 above, as part of this complaint. I mention this because this service only 
has the power to look at complaint points that the respondent business has had a chance to look at first.  If a consumer raises one thing with a respondent business as a complaint and 
then raises new issues only once they come to us we have no power to look at those new 
issues, without the consent of the respondent business.
Mr K told us about why he had not supplied an experts report. He indicated it was because 
he could not afford to pay for one, and when he asked Sainsburys Bank to pay for it, it 
would not.  Sainsburys Bank denied that it had refused to pay for it.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ks complaint be upheld.
Sainsburys Bank accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr K did not. In rejecting 
our investigators recommendation Mr K repeated his previous stance. Mr K also mentioned 
work that is not covered by this complaint that N had done for him previously under a 
separate contract.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K and Sainsburys Bank disagree about all the key points in this complaint. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
In relation to this complaint I think, amongst other things, both the CCA and specifically 
Section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( the CRA), are relevant law.
Ive already set out above what Section 75 covers. The CRA implies terms into contracts 
between consumers and traders and if these terms are not met this will be a breach of 
contract. Ill talk more about this below.
Ill look first at misrepresentation and then at breach of contract.
Mr K says there has been a misrepresentation by N about its membership of C and what this 
covers. However, as Sainsburys Bank pointed out, according to Mr K, N told it about its 
membership of C after the contract had been made. Here misrepresentation means a false 
statement of fact that induced Mr K to contract. Therefore, what N said about its membership 
of C cannot be misrepresentation as it did not induce Mr K to enter into the contract. 
I anticipate that Mr K might argue that Ns statement induced him to pay it the remaining 
£2,000 but that is not misrepresentation in this context. 
As Ive already mentioned, Sainsburys Bank would only be liable to Mr K under this 
complaint point if he could demonstrate that Ns misrepresentation led him to enter into the contract with it. He has not shown that for the reasons Ive set out. It follows Ive no fair or 
reasonable basis to say Sainsburys Bank has to take responsibility for what Mr K says N 
said.  It also follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint. 
Because Ive found that Ns statement did not induce Mr K to enter into the contract, I dont 
need to look at what it most likely said or whether what it said was true.
Moreover, in any event, Ill add for completeness without making any finding about this 
particular point, that Mr K was obliged to pay N the £2,000 under their contract that 
obligation did not simply arise due to whatever N said to him about C. In other words, Mr K 
was always going to have to pay N the £2,000 for its work, regardless. 
Mr K had a contract with N for the supply of goods and services, therefore he had what is 
known as a mixed contract with N. Mr K does not complain about the quality of the goods 
supplied, rather he complains about the services supplied by N. It follows that what Ive got 
to look at is what the CRA says about the delivery of services, The CRA says that with 
regard to services these will be delivered with reasonable skill and care.
Mr K tells us it was an express term of his agreement with N that either the conservatory 
floor would be level with the exit to the garden or alternatively the conservatory would have 
the lowest possible threshold. This was not achieved, in his opinion, therefore the work was 
not done with reasonable skill and care, and this is a breach of contract. Sainsburys Bank 
indicates that N did not agree to make the floor of the conservatory level with the exit to the 
garden. Moreover, N did build the lowest possible threshold, so the contract has been 
fulfilled rather than breached.
Clearly what the parties contracted for is key to this complaint. I think it is appropriate to look 
at what the contract says when Im trying to establish what the parties to it agreed. The 
difficulty for Mr K is that when I look at the contractual documents Ive got there is nothing 
that says that the floor of the conservatory has to be level with the exit to the garden. 
That said, Mr Ks alternative argument is that N agreed that the exit to the garden would 
have the lowest possible threshold. The contractual documents do say this. But although Mr 
K tells us this has not been achieved, Im not persuaded that he is correct. His point seems 
to be if the concrete blocks had been turned on their side hed have got want he wanted and 
contracted for. However, the information from the builder indicates that the concrete blocks 
could not be turned on their sides as this would have compromised other aspects of the 
conservatory. That in turn leads me to think that N would never have agreed to this. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that just because the threshold is higher than Mr K wants, 
this demonstrates that the conservatory does not have the lowest possible threshold.
It would have been helpful to have an experts report. Then I would have had an opinion 
from an impartial expert third party which would have told us whether the conservatory had 
been built with the lowest possible threshold. I realise Mr K has told us he could not afford to 
pay for one and Sainsburys Bank refused to pay for one. Sainsburys Bank says it did not 
refuse to pay for one. However, I dont need to go into the ins and outs of this. I say this 
because the point is this, it is Mr K who is expected to provide evidence to support his 
complaint. The onus is not on Sainsburys Bank. So it does not matter if Sainsburys Bank 
did refuse to pay for the experts report, it is entitled to do that.
Ive also thought about whether the term about the floor of the conservatory having to be 
level with the exit with the garden was something the parties agreed verbally, which  could 
explain why it is not in the written contract. Or whether they agreed verbally that the concrete 
blocks would be turned on their sides. Given what Mr K tells us about his wifes disability I do 
find it likely Mr K and N did talk about the floor height in the conservatory when negotiating 
their contract. Moreover, it is possible in some instances that contracting parties do not 
capture all the terms that theyve agreed in the written contract, but I dont think this is the 
case here. I say this because it does not seem it would have ever been possible for the exit 
to garden to be level with the garden without substantial extra work. I think that extra work, if agreed, would have been documented. Moreover, I dont think N would have agreed to the 
concrete blocks going on their sides if that would have undermined other features of the 
conservatory.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Ive also thought about whether Sainsburys Bank ought to have considered carrying out a 
chargeback. Chargeback is a mechanism for claiming a refund (in full or in part) of a 
payment made on a plastic card such as Mr Ks credit card. But in this case, I dont think this 
would have been appropriate. I say this because chargebacks are subject to rules set by the 
card scheme to which the card belongs, and those rules, would not on balance have allowed 
Sainsburys Bank to raise a successful chargeback. I therefore think it is fair and reasonable 
that Sainsburys Bank did not seek to raise a chargeback.
I recognise that Mr K is unhappy about how Sainsburys Bank went about investigating his 
claim. But I can see there was a lot of back and forth which took time. And whilst Sainsburys 
Bank might not have investigated every point in the way Mr K wanted it to do, that does not 
mean it treated him unfairly. It is entitled to use its own discretion about how it looks into 
matters. It follows that I have no proper basis for saying that Sainsburys Bank has to do 
anything further in relation to this part of Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman