DRN-2397576
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his home insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited because it 
declined a claim he made for storm damage to his roof and loft rooms. 
What happened
In the early hours of the morning on 15 January 2020 Mr B was woken with a loud crash. It 
transpired that the felt covering for the flat roof of his loft extension had been ripped off. It 
landed in a neighbours garden and rain poured into the bedroom and bathroom.
Mr B called Fairmead, it noted winds of 46mph and agreed to send a loss adjuster to view 
the damage. Mr B paid £350 for some temporary repairs to be done in the meantime. The 
loss adjuster reviewed a different set of weather records and found winds of only 38mph at 
the closest weather station. The loss adjuster viewed the loft extension from the ground and 
saw some photos Mr Bs contractor had taken whilst carrying out some temporary repairs. 
The adjuster noted the suspected age of the roof and concluded it may have reached the 
end of its life  with age related cracking allowing the wind to get underneath the felt and rip 
it off. 
 
Fairmead then declined the claim in its entirety, both for external and internal damage. It said 
no other homes in the area had suffered similar damage and a one-off storm event had not 
occurred to cause damage to Mr Bs home. It noted the photos taken by the loss adjuster 
and said that the cracking to the leading edge of the roof meant it had been damaged 
overtime due to wear and tear. Mr B complained to us.
Our investigator asked Fairmead to show any evidence it had that the roof was/had been 
suffering from wear. He said the photos provided to date showed no damage to the leading 
edge of the roof, no sign of on-going water damage to the wood (which remained) and that 
the internal damage did not appear to have occurred over a long time. Fairmead provided 
further comment from its loss adjuster but nothing else. Our investigator felt Fairmead hadnt 
shown that its view (namely that this damage was not the result of a one-off event covered 
by the policy) was reasonable. He said it should reconsider the claim and pay £100 
compensation.
Mr B didnt object to the findings. Fairmead said it was up to the policyholder to show theyd 
suffered damage covered by the policy and it didnt think Mr B had done this. It said it was 
reasonable for it to rely on the view of its adjuster that the roof had been suffering from wear 
and tear. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Putting things right
  
My final decision
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman