DRN-4316514
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as C complains about the handling of its business 
interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, by Society of 
Lloyd's.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Any reference to Lloyd's 
includes Society of Lloyd's, its underwriters, and its agents. 
C operates as a travel agency and held a policy underwritten by Lloyds. In March 2020, Cs 
business was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and it contacted Lloyds to claim for its 
losses. At that time, Lloyds declined the claim. 
Soon after, the process began relating to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) test case1. 
The Supreme Court issued its judgment on this in early 2021, and in February 2021 Lloyds 
confirmed it would reconsider Cs claim. The investigation and consideration of the claim 
took some time. Interim payments were made, but it was not until November 2021 that the 
final settlement payment was made by Lloyds.
C initially complained about a number of points, including the level of claim settlement. 
Ultimately though, the remaining points of issue are limited to the delays in accepting and 
then considering the claim, and what the consequences of this were. C pursued its complaint 
about this through the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought that C had a valid claim 
and that, by not meeting it when it was originally made, Lloyds had caused C to be without 
money it otherwise would have had. So, he recommended Lloyds add interest to the 
settlement for the period C was without these funds.
In respect of the disputed points, Lloyds said the relevant FCA guidance indicated claims 
would be paused while the test case was running. And that requiring interest to be paid in 
relation to this period of pause would penalise Lloyds for acting in line with the FCAs 
guidance. Lloyds said that the position should be to calculate interest from the point after the 
test case and after the claim had been reassessed. 
Lloyds pointed to a footnote to the test case Framework Agreement, which said that the 
FCA would not retrospectively apply the judgment. And Lloyds said this was included as 
insurers were mindful of possible claims for late payment under section 13A of the Insurance 
Act 2015 and to ensure initial claims decisions should not be held against insurers when 
judging the reasonableness of their conduct.
Lloyds also pointed to the judgment in Quadra Commodities SA v XL Insurance Company 
SE & Ors [2023] EWCA Civ 432 (Quadra). And said that this judgment confirmed that 
1 The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 
and the related judgment in the court at first instance
insurers were entitled to a reasonable period of time to investigate a claim and just because 
covered was initially disputed it did not mean insurers had acted unreasonably. And that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service needed to take this judgment into account and explain why it 
does not affect the outcome of the complaint.
Lloyds said that the test case had changed the legal position, so when Cs claim was initially 
made it was not valid. And hence it is unfair to say that Lloyds should have settled the claim 
at that point.
Lloyds also said that the timescales of claim investigation and submission of evidence to its 
loss adjuster to have been reasonable.
As our Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note Lloyds has also questioned whether the issue of the delay in making the 
settlement was a complaint that C had raised. As mentioned, the initial complaint was 
originally about a number of points that primarily related to the level of settlement  including 
certain deductions, such as furlough payments that C had received. These were ultimately 
resolved, but the complaint also related to the claims process. 
Cs complaint letter to Lloyds in July 2022 began:
We remain dissatisfied with the handling, assessment, calculation and outcome of 
our BII claim.
Whilst this may not specifically refer to delays, I consider that consideration of the handling 
of a claim will involving thinking about how long that process took. So, I consider the time 
taken for the claim to be met is a matter that I am able to consider. We would not necessarily 
expect a complainant to fully articulate their complaint points and an Ombudsmans 
inquisitorial remit means I need to consider the whole picture  as should a respondent.
I would also add that, in Cs initial submissions to the Ombudsman Service, it said: 
The insurers created a delay of 11 months before accepting the claim The claim 
process, methodology and delay caused us immense concern and involved a great 
deal of time and correspondence. Delaying the claim acceptance and issue of the 
Guidelines did not allow us to manage the company efficiently. 
And our initial request for Lloyds case file specifically stated that the complaint was, at that 
time, about the delay and the value of the claim. Lloyds provided its file and did not 
challenge the inclusion of the first of these until after the Investigator had issued his 
recommendations. Whilst this does not impact the jurisdiction or my ability to consider this 
complaint point, I do not consider that to be good practice.
Ultimately, I consider Lloyds had the appropriate opportunity to consider issues of delay 
both before C brought its complaint to the Ombudsman Service. And I consider this is a 
complaint that I am able, and required, to make a decision on. 
In terms of the time the claim took, there are effectively two periods. The first is the period 
from March 2020 up until Lloyds accepted there was a valid claim. And the second is the period from this point until the claim was settled. 
Much of Lloyds argument has focussed on the first of these. Effectively, it has said that the 
decision it made in March 2020 was correct at that time. So, it should not be penalised for 
this decision being changed later. However, it is not my role to penalised financial 
businesses  including Lloyds. 
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to decide on 
compensation if things didnt happen as they should have, that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
Our rules allow me to make, amongst other things, an award for what I consider to be fair 
compensation if a complaint is determined in the favour of the complainant. In this case, my 
decision is based on what I think is fair compensation to put C back in the position it would 
have been in if Lloyds hadnt made an error in turning down Cs claim. As an incorrect 
decision was made on the claim, I think it is reasonable to say that this should not have 
happened, and that Cs claim should instead have been met at the time it was made. 
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case does not alter the fact that C had a valid claim and 
that Lloyds decision to decline this in 2020 was ultimately incorrect. The consequence of 
this was that C was left without funds that it otherwise would have had.
Ive noted Lloyds point regarding the FCA guidance, but I am unaware of any guidance from 
the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a valid claim in 
circumstances such as this. 
Ive also taken into account the Quadra judgment, and section 13A of the Insurance Act, 
which related to damages for late payment of a claim. The Court in this case determined that 
the insurer did not have to pay damages, as it had reasonable grounds to decline the claim 
initially  which is a relevant defence under the Act. I note Lloyds position that it considers 
that it also had reasonable grounds to decline the claim.
However, I do not think the Quadra judgment or the comments in the Framework Agreement 
mean that it is not fair or reasonable for Lloyds to add interest to the settlement amount paid 
to C on its claim. Such a payment reflects the fact that C was without this settlement. And 
the FCA has not, to my knowledge, provided any guidance that interest should not be added 
to the settlement of a valid claim in circumstances such as this. 
I am required to determine what I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is, 
having regard to all the circumstances. Having done so, I consider the addition of interest to 
the claim settlement is required to properly indemnify C for its financial loss and put it back in 
the position it would have been in had the loss not occurred. It is not a penalty on Lloyds but 
reflects the fact it was in possession of monies which should have been paid to C, 
regardless of the reasons for the delay in payment.
In addition, the Supreme Court judgement in the test case was made in January 2021 and 
settlement not fully paid until November 2021. Cs losses had already crystalised by the time 
of the judgment, and I consider Lloyds ought reasonably to have settled a claim of this 
nature within about a month of that. It seems that there was an extended exchange of 
correspondence, but I am not satisfied by Lloyds submission that this was unavoidable. The 
basis of its settlement is a simplified averaging of Cs losses over the period Lloyds has 
identified as being the indemnity period. And I have seen nothing in the evidence provided 
that this ought reasonably to have taken more than a month to get to this point. As such, I 
think there was a further avoidable delay. Because the claim was not met when it should have been, Lloyds has been in possession of 
the claim amount and C has been left without these funds that it otherwise would have had. 
As C has been without this money, I believe that it is fair and reasonable to consider this to 
be a financial loss that C has incurred as a result of the incorrect rejection of the claim. 
For the reasons set out above, I think there was a financial loss as a result of the delay in 
paying the claim. In order to put that right, I consider that interest should be calculated on the 
sums that were due to C. I also consider that the appropriate rate of interest is 8% simple 
per annum.
I consider that in a claim of this nature it is reasonable for an insurer to wait a month for 
initial losses to crystalise. And then for it to take a further month to assess these and the 
claim generally. And, from that point, to make monthly interim payments for the duration of 
the claim. 
In Cs circumstances, its losses commenced in March 2020, so I think it ought to have 
received the first monthly interim payment from Lloyds in May 2020. And that this payment 
should have covered Cs insured losses from March to April 2020. Losses relating to 
subsequent monthly periods then ought to have been settled in the following months  June, 
July, and so on. 
C did not receive these payments and so Lloyds should pay interest on these sum from the 
date they ought to have been made  as set out above  to the date they were paid.
It is however fair and reasonable that Lloyds is able to take into account the fact that C took 
out a £50,000 bounce back loan in May 2020. It has not been disputed that this was taken 
out as a result of Lloyds initial decision to decline the claim. And this loan carried an interest 
free period, which C was able to benefit from. At the end of this period the interest payable 
on this amount was 2.5%. So, it is fair and reasonable that Lloyds does not pay any interest 
on the initial £50,000 of the claim until this interest free period had ended, and then from that 
point pay interest at a rate of 2.5%. 
It is also fair that Lloyds take into account that it did make interim payments to C. So, it is 
entitled to use the dates of these payments as the end date for the interest calculations. The 
first actual interim payments should be considered as settling the first interim payments that 
ought to have been made.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I think there was a financial loss as a result of the delay in 
paying the claim. In order to put that right, I consider that interest should be calculated on the 
sums that were due to C. I also consider that the appropriate rate of interest is 8% simple 
per annum.
I consider that in a claim of this nature it is reasonable for an insurer to wait a month for 
initial losses to crystalise. And then for it to take a further month to assess these and the 
claim generally. And, from that point, to make monthly interim payments for the duration of 
the claim. 
In Cs circumstances, its losses commenced in March 2020, so I think it ought to have 
received the first monthly interim payment from Lloyds in May 2020. And that this payment 
should have covered Cs insured losses from March to April 2020. Losses relating to 
subsequent monthly periods then ought to have been settled in the following months  May, 
June, and so on. C did not receive these payments and so Lloyds should pay interest on these sum from the 
date they ought to have been made  as set out above  to the date they were paid.
It is however fair and reasonable that Lloyds is able to take into account the fact that C took 
out a £50,000 bounce back loan in May 2020. This was taken out as a result of Lloyds initial 
decision to decline the claim. And this loan carried an interest free period, which C was able 
to benefit from. At the end of this period the interest payable on this amount was 2.5%. So, it 
is fair and reasonable that Lloyds does not pay any interest on the initial £50,000 of the 
claim until this interest free period had ended, and then from that point pay interest at a rate 
of 2.5%, until the point Lloyds actually settled £50,000 of the claim. 
It is also fair that Lloyds take into account that it did make interim payments to C. So, it is 
entitled to use the dates of these payments as the end date for the interest calculations. The 
first actual interim payments should be considered as settling the first interim payments that 
ought to have been made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Society of Lloyds should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman