DRN-3405560
The complaint
Miss S complains about the excess mileage charges she was asked to pay by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance, at the end of her car 
lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The extended finance agreement explained that Miss Ss mileage limit was 26,000. The car 
was returned a little early and the pro-rata mileage allowance VWFS applied was therefore 
25,716. As the car had completed 28,296 miles when it was collected Miss S was liable for 
the excess mileage charge in line with the terms and conditions of her agreement.
Miss S was disappointed that the collection agent didnt tell her that a mileage charge was 
due. VWFS have explained that the inspector wouldnt have reported that and, regardless, I 
dont think theres any dispute that the car had exceeded the mileage limit. In those 
circumstances the terms of the finance agreement allowed VWFS to make a charge for 
those miles.
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provide the industry guidance 
in this area and says that consumers should expect to be informed of any excess mileage 
charges no later than four weeks after the vehicle is returned. In this case VWFS advised 
Miss S of the charges in mid-September 2021 and within four weeks. So, I think the charges 
were fairly made and Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman