DRN-2962351
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds error led to an increase 
in the premium for their motor insurance policy. Mr E is a named driver on Mrs Es policy. 
What happened
After an accident, Mrs Es car was declared a category B total loss and Admiral recorded a 
non-fault claim. But Admiral attached the category B marker to another of Mr E and Mrs Es 
cars. The error came to light when they changed house and contacted the DVLA to get a 
new log book for the car and this couldnt be done due to the marker. 
Mr E thought this led to an increase in his premium at renewal. Admiral removed the 
category B marker when it had been notified of the error and it paid Mrs E a total of £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset and £20 for their calls. But Mr E thought it should 
pay them a further £500 for their increase in premium.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had made an error with the marker. But he thought it had corrected this promptly when it was 
pointed out. He explained that insurers wouldnt quote for cars with category B markers as 
they were unroadworthy. So this wouldnt have affected any quotes Mr E obtained. He 
thought an increase in premium was most likely due to the non-fault claim. He didnt think 
Admiral needed to compensate Mr E for any potential losses. And he thought its payment of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr E replied that the error had come to light when they changed house. He thought the error 
would otherwise have persisted for twelve months. He said it took five months for Admiral to 
correct the error and they had to do the legwork for this. Mr E asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can understand Mr E and Mrs Es frustration, but mistakes happen. I can see that when it 
was told about the mistake, Admiral investigated the issue and acted to correct it. 
Mr E was unhappy that it took five months for the error to be corrected. I agree that it was 
five months from the date the marker was placed on the wrong car until this was confirmed 
to be fully corrected. But I can see that Admiral corrected the entry on the Motor Insurers 
Anti-Fraud and Theft Register (MIAFTR) on the same day Mr E called to tell it of the error. It 
then took seven weeks for incorrect markers to be confirmed as removed from other external 
databases. 
I can understand Mr Es frustration. But I think Admiral acted promptly to investigate the 
matter and correct the MIAFTR and other databases. It can take a while for these to be 
updated, but I cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible for that. I can see that Admiral 
checked the databases regularly and reasonably chased them up to make the changes. So I 
think Admiral acted reasonably to restore Mrs Es position. 
As our investigator has explained, having an incorrect category B marker on the car wouldnt 
have affected the quotes Mr E obtained for renewal. This was because insurers would either 
not have been aware of the marker unless it was declared, or they wouldnt have quoted if 
they were aware of it as the car would be unroadworthy. So I dont think this led to an 
increase in premium at renewal. 
Mr E was worried about what would have happened if the error hadnt been identified and 
corrected. Fortunately, nothing untoward occurred. We cant consider potential losses, just 
actual ones. So, although I can understand Mr Es concern, Im satisfied that what Admiral 
has paid Mr E and Mrs E for distress and inconvenience compensated them adequately for 
the concern he had when he found out about the mistake.
Mr E was unhappy that the non-fault claim affected their premium at renewal. But Im 
satisfied that Admiral increased the premium in keeping with its underwriting terms as Ive 
seen that Admiral rates on all claims, whether fault or non-fault. So Im satisfied Admiral 
treated Mr E and Mrs E the same as other consumers. 
As Ive already mentioned, Admiral paid Mr E and Mrs E £300 as a gesture of goodwill for 
their inconvenience caused by its error and £20 for calls they had to make. I think this was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the impact the error had as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. I dont require Admiral to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman