DRN-3568960
The complaint
Mr M has complained, as a director of a company, which Ill refer to as P, about AXAs 
handling of a motor claim under Ps commercial motor insurance policy.   
What happened
On 1 September 2020 Mr M was involved in a collision with a motorbike. Mr M was 
indicating left while waiting for the gates to his drive to open so he could turn in. As Mr M 
commenced to turn, a motorcycle undertook Mr Ms vehicle resulting in a collision. A claim 
was opened with AXA. AXA appointed a third-party claims handling company to act on its 
behalf, which Ill refer to as B. 
During the investigation of the claim, two witness statements were provided - one from an 
independent witness which held both parties at fault and another from a person known to 
Mr M which said the third party was at fault. 
Liability was disputed by both parties. AXA made a decision to settle the claim by agreeing a 
50/50 split liability with the third-party insurer. Mr M disputed this and said the third party was 
at fault. He was dissatisfied that AXA agreed to settle the claim on a split liability basis even 
though B was defending the claim and also that the split liability was agreed without his prior 
knowledge or consent. 
Mr M brought a complaint to our service. He believed an error was made in settling the 
liability and wanted to know who authorised it because B was defending the claim on a non-
fault basis. 
AXA said if the matter went to court, the second witness statement holding the third party at 
fault, would be dismissed as there is a pre-existing relationship between Mr M and the 
witness. Therefore, based on the information available it hadnt acted unreasonably in 
settling the claim on a 50/50 split liability. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to settle the claim as it saw fit. He said that 
AXA had been fair and reasonable in deciding to settle the claim as split liability, given the 
one independent witness statement which held both parties at fault and lack of any further 
evidence. 
Mr M didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Ms complaint letter to this service, he said that he didnt think he was at fault in this 
collision. Whilst he clearly didnt agree with AXAs decision on liability, what he is also 
disputing is that AXA should be able to make that decision, without his knowledge and 
agreement and, also while B, who was acting on behalf of AXA, was defending liability. 
This is clearly a matter of great principle to Mr M and I fully understand he feels frustrated 
that AXA has settled the claim without his knowledge as a split liability even though B wrote 
to the third-party insurer to defend liability. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? 
In the terms and conditions of Ps policy, AXAs ability to determine liability is included under 
the heading Claim Procedure. Here it says, in summary, AXA has full discretion to take over 
and deal with the defence or settlement of any claim that arises. 
So, AXA is entitled, under the terms and conditions of its policy with P, to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it sees fit. And this means AXA can settle the claim as it feels appropriate 
irrespective of what B said and whether Mr M agreed with the outcome or not. That means it 
doesnt require Mr Ms knowledge or consent to decide how to settle a claim. This is a 
common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. And I think its a 
reasonable term, as ultimately AXA will have to pay any settlement, so it should be able to 
decide how to settle. 
This having been said, I would still expect AXA to act reasonably when relying on this term 
and properly consider the matter before proposing a settlement. 
The evidence that AXA had to consider was the two drivers versions of events, the damage 
to the vehicles, one independent witness statement which held both parties at fault and 
another statement from a person known to Mr M who held the third-party at fault. I think it 
was reasonable for AXA to consider that it wouldnt be able to rely on this witness in court 
due to the pre-existing relationship between the witness and Mr M. Im satisfied AXA acted in 
line with Ps policy terms and conditions and took into account the available evidence when it 
made its decision to settle the claim as split liability. I think this was a reasonable decision in 
the circumstances and I dont require AXA to change it. So, I think AXA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman