DRN-3570846
The complaint
Mr B complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and sent money 
back to source rather than releasing it to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
Mr B had a Pockit account which he opened in August 2020. 
At the end of August 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Bs account while they carried out a review. As 
part of the review Pockit asked Mr B to provide proof of his identification and address. Pockit 
sent several requests for information in September, November, and December 2020. Mr B 
didnt want to provide a copy of his identification as he was concerned of security breaches.
Mr B complained and Pockit said they had a right to suspend the account as part of their 
terms and conditions.
Around July 2021, following their review and having not receiving the relevant information 
from Mr B, Pockit decided to close the account and returned the money in it back to the 
original sources. 
Our investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint agreed that Pockit was allowed to suspend 
the account and ask Mr B for information; and he thought it was reasonable they returned 
part of the money held in the account back to source.
Mr B remained unhappy. He said hed lost contact with the people who the money was 
returned to so now has lost money which rightfully belonged to him. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon to review Mr Bs account, Im satisfied 
that they were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr 
Bs account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account also 
permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I cant 
say Pockit did anything wrong when it initially blocked Mr Bs account.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. Pockit can only close 
accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. This 
service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless we think theyve 
acted unfairly. Pockit have relied on, and complied with, the terms and conditions when 
closing Mr Bs account and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair 
decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
Pockit were entitled to review, block and subsequently close Mr Bs account. They asked for 
information to be provided to them relating to Mr Bs identity  and it is Pockits duty to 
ensure their customers money is protected. As Mr B couldnt satisfy Pockits requirements 
for information when they asked for it, they decided to close the account and return the 
money left in it back to its original source. I am aware one payment of around £14.50 was 
returned to Mr B directly. I cant hold Pockit responsible that Mr B has lost contact with the 
individuals the money has been returned to but I cant hold Pockit responsible for that. 
Ultimately, they werent satisfied of Mr Bs identity and therefore couldnt reasonably 
conclude whether he was entitled to the money or not.
Overall, Im sorry Mr B is left in the position he finds himself in. But in order to uphold his 
complaint and ask Pockit to do something to put things right, Id need to be satisfied they did 
something wrong. And having considered everything, I cant reasonably say they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman