DRN-4065428
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement he received from MI Vehicle Finance Limited, who Ill 
call MI Finance, when they agreed his car had been misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think MI Finance have provided sufficient redress here and Im asking them to 
increase it in line with our investigators suggestion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
It was agreed here that the car provided to Mr M in October 2021 had been clocked and 
that the deal and the finance agreement had therefore been misrepresented to him.  
When this Service identifies a misrepresentation of this kind we would usually tell the 
business to take the car back and end the finance agreement, refund the finance instalments 
less any they could retain for fair usage as required under the Consumer Rights Act (2015), 
refund any deposit or part exchange contribution, compensate the consumer for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, and remove the agreement from the consumers credit file. Wed 
also ask the business to add interest to any refunds.
Mi Finance agreed to take the car back and end the finance agreement, refund two of the 
nine finance instalments Mr M had paid (£1,786.06), and pay him £150 in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
The finance instalments Mr M had been paying had been calculated on the assumption the 
car he was leasing had a lower mileage than it did, and hed therefore been paying more 
each month than he should have. Our investigator asked MI Finance to calculate how much 
that overpayment was, and they explained it was £1,875.72 after 8% simple interest per year 
had been added. Id agree with the basis of that calculation.
MI Finance had paid Mr M £1,787.06 in respect of what they said was lack of use of the car. 
Theres no set method for working out what fair usage should be, but here Mr M had 
completed nearly 9,000 miles in the car in his ten months of ownership and thats above 
average usage. I cant therefore see that Mr M had any appreciable loss of use. But MI 
Finance should have refunded the overpayment and when deducting the lack of use refund 
that I dont think was necessary, that leaves a balance of £88.66 that I think MI Finance 
should now refund to Mr M.
Having considered the £150 payment for distress and inconvenience that MI Finance 
provided I think thats in line with what this Service would have ordered in the circumstances, 
and I dont think it was unreasonable.
Mr M has asked me to consider some costs that he says he incurred as a consequence of 
the misrepresentation, but it was always his responsibility under the agreement to service 
the car and replace wear and tear items such as tyres. So, Im not asking MI Finance to 
refund those expenses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited to pay Mr M a further £88.06 in respect of the redress due when rejecting his car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman