DRN-1328681
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about their account being closed and defaulted.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs S say they werent told their account was being closed and defaulted. 
And they suggest letters were sent to the wrong address. But I dont think that was 
likely the case.
Bank of Scotland tried contacting Mr and Mrs S a number of times about their 
account and it said what needed doing to avoid it being closed and defaulted. Its 
letters were sent to their correct address. Its unfortunate if these letters didnt reach 
them for some reason but thats not something I can hold Bank of Scotland 
responsible for.
Bank of Scotland also advised them of sources of free debt advice and asked for 
income and expenditure information. There was also mention of them setting up an 
affordable repayment plan. Although Mr and Mrs S eventually made some payments 
this wasnt until their account was already being defaulted. 
I think Bank of Scotland acted fairly in closing and defaulting the account. But, as it 
has accepted, it couldve realised earlier that their financial difficulties werent short 
term and it shouldve closed and defaulted the account earlier.
To put things right Bank of Scotland has agreed to backdate the default to 24 
February 2018 and has refunded almost £535 of charges. In its final response it also 
offered Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation for whats happened including some 
customer service issues. Taking everything into account, including the level of 
awards we make, I think this is all fair and reasonable. Mr S has also recently 
confirmed they have received £300 of compensation which has been credited to their 
account.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy at the effect the default is having on their ability to get 
credit and theyd like it removed from their credit file. Although I understand their 
frustration, I think the default has now been fairly recorded and accurately reflects the 
conduct of their account and when Bank of Scotland shouldve reasonably defaulted 
it. 
Overall, although I recognise Mr and Mrs S strength of feeling, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably require Bank of Scotland to do anything more or differently, 
including paying them any more compensation or amending their credit file as they 
would like.I would also remind Bank of Scotland of its ongoing obligation to treat Mr and Mrs S 
positively and sympathetically whilst they are in financial difficulty. And I would urge 
them to contact and co-operate with the bank to try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan.
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman