DRN-4041674
The complaint
Mr D complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) caused avoidable delays in 
how it handled his legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim. He says this led to him incurring 
additional legal fees. Mr D also considers the hourly solicitor rate payable to his solicitor to 
be too low.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its representative.
What happened
The events of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
In late March 2021, Mr D submitted an LEI claim to RSA in respect of an employment 
dispute. He expressed he wanted to use his own solicitor, who Ill refer to as W. 
In early April 2021, RSA told Mr D that prior to the issuing of court proceedings, it 
would only cover the costs of its panel solicitors. It also asked him to provide 
additional information  including any other information relevant to your claim.
On 14 April 2021, Mr D told RSA he had additional information that was with W 
saying [I] could send over a myriad of additional documents but dont think they are 
relevant to the choice of solicitor or the validity of cover. So, he didnt provide 
anything further at this time.
A few days later, RSA advised the information it had been given was being reviewed. 
Mr D asked that if any more information was required RSA ring him rather than email.
On 21 April 2021, RSA asked Mr D for clarification as to the exact date the grievance 
was raised with his former employer. Mr D said it was in late-January 2020. Mr D 
wanted to know why the information was needed.
A week later - having been asked for an update by Mr D - RSA said the policy started 
on 6 January 2020, so it needed to establish if the insured event fell within the period 
of cover. Mr D explained hed had continuous cover for several years. RSA said it 
would review the claim and revert to Mr D by the end of the month. 
On 6 May 2021, RSA told Mr D that an exclusion applied because the claim had 
been raised within 90 days of the start of the policy. 
Mr D provided evidence of his previous insurer which confirmed continuous LEI cover 
and asked that his claim be expedited owing to the deadline to submit his 
employment tribunal claim.
In Mid-May 2021, RSA confirmed it was obtaining a legal assessment from its legal 
adviser. On 27 May 2021, RSA shared with Mr D that its legal adviser had said the 
claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
RSA explained Mr D could challenge the assessment by either submitting further 
new information for its solicitor to consider or he could submit a formal legal 
assessment from a suitably qualified solicitor which showed prospects of success. 
Mr D said that whilst RSAs legal adviser had asked for more information it hadnt 
specified what it needed. Mr D asked whether W could provide a legal challenge - 
RSA said it could.
RSA subsequently provided a list of suggested evidence that would be required by its 
legal adviser to reassess the claim which included if an alternative advice on 
prospects has been provided, the basis of the same.
Mr D replied saying, The problem with the list below is that it provides yet more data 
/ background but without the colour of how the various bits link in with one another, 
we may have another similar highly inefficient and time consuming process which 
doesnt directly address the 50% criterion contemplated by the policy. 
Unhappy with the time taken to progress his claim, Mr D complained to RSA. 
On 31 August 2021, W provided a legal assessment to challenge RSAs solicitors 
opinion. Having considered this and further evidence provided by W, RSAs solicitor 
agreed Mr Ds legal claim had prospects of success and so, RSA sent W its terms of 
business.
Mr D raised further complaint concerns relating to costs: he was unhappy RSA had 
only agreed to legal costs from the time it had said there were prospects of success; 
the time it had taken to negotiate his solicitors hourly rate and pay his solicitors fees; 
he considered the hourly rate to be too low. 
RSA concluded that overall, it had handled Mr Ds claim in line with the terms of the 
policy but offered £50 compensation to recognise there had been one occasion 
where it replied to Mr D outside of its five-business day service level agreement. 
Unhappy, Mr D brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
upheld it. He said RSA should cover the costs Mr D incurred in obtaining his legal 
opinion to challenge the prospects of success assessment and pay an additional 
£100 compensation for the delays it had caused. 
Both parties disagreed with the Investigators outcome and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
Having considered the evidence, I issued a provisional decision which said I intended to 
reach a different outcome to the Investigator. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Validating the claim 
Mr D has complained about the time it took RSA to validate his claim. Insurers are 
required to handle claims promptly and fairly but its also reasonable for them to seek 
further information to satisfy itself a claim is covered.Here, however, it seems RSA got unnecessarily tangled up in considering whether 
the insured event was covered by the policy even though Mr D had continuous cover 
in place. Whilst this might not have been apparent to RSA at the outset, I do think 
this could have been identified and addressed earlier on  taking approximately 
seven weeks to do so seems unreasonable. And because RSA hadnt identified Mr D 
had continuous LEI cover, it incorrectly advised him his claim wasnt covered which 
caused unnecessary stress. So, I agree with our Investigator that RSA could have 
done more to progress the claim and agree £100 additional compensation is 
reasonable. 
Once RSA validated Mr Ds claim it referred his legal claim to its legal adviser for a 
prospects of success assessment - a standard process legal expenses insurers 
follow. The outcome  that the legal claim didnt enjoy prospects of success - was 
given to Mr D just over two weeks later. It seems this was outside the timeframe RSA 
had advised Mr D of and so, I can appreciate his frustration at having to wait a bit 
longer when he was already under time pressures owing to submitting his 
employment tribunal claim.
I note that at the time of sharing the prospects of success outcome, RSA informed Mr 
D of his right to challenge the outcome and how he could do this. But it seems that it 
wasnt until the end of August 2021  three months later  that RSA received Ws 
legal challenge. So, Im not persuaded the delays during this time are attributable to 
RSAs handling of the claim. 
Once RSA received Ws legal challenge, it shared this with its legal adviser who 
considered the new information. The legal adviser confirmed the claim had prospects 
of success approximately three weeks later, at which time RSA sent its terms of 
business to W. In deciding whether this was a reasonable amount of time, I must 
keep in mind that RSAs legal adviser was provided with new information to consider 
which would take time to review. So, whilst I understand Mr D feels things took too 
long, and I may agree this was slightly longer than Id usually expect to see, the 
impact was limited here and isnt to the extent that I would look to make a further 
award for.
Prospects of success 
In his view, our Investigator said RSA should cover the legal costs Mr D incurred in 
obtaining a legal opinion from W to challenge RSAs legal advisers assessment that 
his employment dispute didnt enjoy prospects of success. He based this on the 
policy document stating: 
Where you have chosen your own representative any legal expenses 
incurred in providing assessment shall only be covered where there are 
reasonable prospects of successfully pursuing or defending the legal 
proceedings and the claim is covered under all other terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
The decision to grant consent will take into account the advice of your 
representative as well as that of our own advisers. We may require, at your 
expense, an opinion of Counsel on the merits of the legal proceedings. If the 
claim is subsequently admitted your costs in obtaining such an opinion and 
providing such advice will be covered under this insurance.
But having looked at the evidence, Im not persuaded that achieves a fair outcome in 
this particular case, and Ill explain why. A condition of the policy is that the insured must tell RSA fully and truthfully in writing 
all the details about [their] claim and give [RSA] all the information that [it] may need. 
This was reiterated in early correspondence to Mr D where RSA asked him to 
provide any other information relevant to his claim.
Ive looked at Ws legal challenge to the initial prospects of success assessment and 
note the grounds of complaint were submitted with it, but this grounds of complaint 
document hadnt been shared with RSAs legal adviser prior, as W says:
I attach my clients Grounds of Complaint (GOC) as filed with the 
Employment Tribunal which set out the full particulars of claim. I understand 
that your solicitors did not have sight of the GOC prior to providing their 
opinion []
On its face, this was relevant information that shouldve been shared with RSA, in 
line with the above described obligations.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether had RSAs legal adviser had sight of the 
grounds of complaint, it would have made a difference and whether it was 
reasonable for Mr D to have known he ought to have shared this. In doing so, I note 
that in Ws legal challenge, it says: 
I understand that your solicitors did not have sight of the GOC prior to 
providing their opinion and can infer from your letter of 27 May 2021 that their 
basis for advising that Mr Ds claims had less than a 50% chance of success 
was the absence of relevant information, evidence and / or comment from Mr 
D. As you will appreciate the GOC is a substantial pleading which I drafted on 
the basis of material amount of documentary and oral evidence which Mr D 
and [] has provided to me over the last 12 months.
And I note RSAs legal adviser said in their revised prospects of success 
assessment: 
We have now been provided additional documentation in the form of the 
insureds particulars of complaint, the respondents grounds of resistance and 
an assessment of the claim from the Insureds solicitor. 
It goes on to say: 
We had previously been provided very little information regarding the 
Insureds claim. The particulars of complaint have substantively elaborated 
upon the same
Considering the above, its clear to me relevant information wasnt shared with RSAs 
legal adviser  including the grounds of complaint which W themselves said was key. 
And I consider that this ought to have been shared with RSA before its legal adviser 
completed its legal assessment. 
Had this, and the other information been shared, the initial prospects assessment 
wouldnt have been made on partial evidence. Or, if the grounds of complaint post-
dated the initial prospects of success assessment, Mr D could have submitted it as 
new evidence for RSAs legal adviser to consider. Either way, Im satisfied Mr D had 
the opportunity to provide relevant information  which was likely to make a 
difference to the legal advisers assessment - but chose not to for reasons of their 
own. I say chose not to because Ive seen an email from Mr D where he says there is a 
myriad of information with W but that he doesnt see how its relevant to validating 
cover. But Im not persuaded thats good enough reason for not sharing relevant 
information. Ultimately, RSA must determine whether the claim is one it can cover 
considering the legal disputes prospects of success and whether it is proportionate 
to pursue, amongst other things. RSAs panel solicitors put together an initial 
assessment based on the information available, and Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for RSA to rely on those prospects of success to decline the claim.
Given the pertinence of the grounds of complaint, Im more persuaded that had this 
been shared earlier on, Mr D wouldnt have had to incur subsequent legal costs in 
instructing W to produce a legal challenge to the panel solicitors prospects of 
success assessment. And so, Im not persuaded the costs he incurred in doing so 
should fall to RSA.
Communication 
Mr D has said hes unhappy RSA communicated with him by email when hed asked 
to be telephoned. RSA has explained that it told Mr D that it could accommodate his 
request to speak on the phone in error and that ordinarily, communication is by email, 
so it has a paper trail. Whilst I understand Mr Ds frustration and acknowledge his 
point that phone calls would expedite the process, RSA has explained its position 
and apologised for its mistake which Im satisfied is reasonable. Mr D is also 
unhappy that he didnt get to speak with RSAs legal adviser before it issued its 
prospects of success assessment. RSA has explained the legal adviser is for its 
benefit  not Mr Ds, and thats correct. Ultimately, RSA isnt a legal expert and so, 
its entitled to rely on the advice of a legal professional to determine whether a claim 
is covered under the policy. RSA hasnt treated Mr D unfairly by preventing him from 
speaking with its legal adviser. And as Ive explained above, Im satisfied he was 
given the opportunity to provide information he wanted the legal adviser and RSA to 
consider prior to the prospects of success assessment being completed.
Solicitors hourly rate and time taken to pay costs 
Mr D complains RSA has acted unfairly by capping the hourly rate itll pay W at £200. 
He considers it should be £250 per hour  the rate W is charging him. 
In determining whether RSA has acted fairly, Ive looked at the policy document 
which says: 
At the point where Court papers need to be issued (or have been received), 
[] you are free to choose a suitably qualified representative. [] 
Where we agree to the appointment of a representative of your choice, you 
must confirm that your representative will not charge more than a 
representative chosen or suggested by us or that you will pay any difference 
between your chosen representatives fees and those of a representative 
chosen by or suggested by us. We will not pay your choice of representative 
more than we would pay our own choice of representative.
So, whilst the policy makes it clear RSA wont pay more than what it would pay its 
choice of representative, it doesnt specify the maximum hourly rate. In such 
circumstances, I would expect the rate offered to be reasonable and in line with what 
the policy purports to cover which here is the cost of you taking legal proceedings 
against your employer over your contract of employment. The policy also states: you must take all reasonable measures to prevent or avoid being involved in legal 
proceedings and keep the cost as low as possible. In other words, legal costs should 
be necessary and reasonable.
Because the parties disagree about what a reasonable hourly rate is, Ive looked at 
the available evidence and considered the nature of Mr Ds legal case, the courts 
guidelines on fee earner hourly rates, and the courts approach to the level of 
remuneration to be applied. Mr Ds chosen solicitor, W, has 21 years experience and 
specialises in employment law. Ive looked at Ws location and note the court 
guidelines state £282 per hour for a fee earner of Ws grade (A)  which is far higher 
than what RSA initially offered (£150 per hour + VAT). Though I note it has since 
agreed to pay £200 per hour + VAT.
So, Ive considered whether its reasonable to ask RSA to pay Ws hourly rate of 
£250 which I understand is already discounted. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that 
both parties agree the claim is high value and complex. I say this because in an 
email to W, RSA said: [] we have employment specialist panel and non-panel 
solicitors based in Central London dealing with high value complex employment 
claims at our hourly rate of £150 + VAT). 
I havent seen however, that RSA has offered Mr D a reasonable choice of suitably 
qualified solicitors who are willing and able to act at the hourly rate its offering to pay 
beyond simply saying it has panel and non-panel solicitors available. This coupled 
with the fact the court guidelines show a fee earner of Ws standing could charge an 
hourly rate far higher than what RSA pays its panel solicitors persuades me that Mr D 
is unlikely to be able to find a suitably qualified solicitor to take on his case for £200 
per hour and even less so for £150 per hour. So, I think his freedom of choice was 
rendered meaningless, and Im currently inclined to say RSA should increase its 
hourly rate to £250 + VAT. 
With regards to the issue of how long it took RSA to authorise initial legal costs in 
December 2021, it seems this took approximately two weeks. Its not unusual for 
approval of costs to go through an internal process  so whilst I appreciate Mr Ds 
frustration at the time it took, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable.
Costs which pre-date positive prospects assessment 
The policys terms and conditions state RSA will cover your representatives fees, 
cost and disbursements which we have agreed []. So, Im satisfied the policy 
makes it clear that unauthorised costs wont be covered. 
RSA has said itll consider costs which were incurred after the positive prospects of 
success assessment was reached (subject to it being necessary to issue court 
proceedings) but that itll require a breakdown of Ws fees to do so. I appreciate Mr D 
feels all his legal costs should be covered under the policy, but thats simply not the 
level of cover offered. Im satisfied RSAs offer to consider costs from the date of its 
positive prospects of success assessment to be reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
pay an additional £100 compensation increase the hourly rate payable to W to £250 + VAT. This will include any 
existing costs that have already been incurred.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. RSA accepted it and reiterated it would 
only consider legal fees incurred by Mr D after the positive prospects of success 
assessment.  
Mr D agreed with my findings but thought the compensation should be increased. He said 
that whilst RSA responded to correspondence within the time frame afforded to it under its 
service level agreement, it always took the full amount, which meant his claim didnt 
progress as quickly as it should have done. Mr D alleges RSA intentionally did this to reduce 
the amount itd have to pay under his claim  as until cover was agreed and the legal claim 
deemed to have prospects of success and be proportionate to pursue, Mr D was funding the 
legal costs. Mr D also clarified that RSA was his previous insurer. 
Mr D accepted hed contributed to delays and explained this was due to his solicitors difficult 
personal circumstances at the time. But he says despite this, RSA still took six months to 
agree cover  which he considers to be unreasonable considering the nature of his legal 
claim and the implications for not meeting deadlines.  
Last, Mr D also considers that had RSA asked his solicitor to provide their analysis at the 
outset rather than use its panel solicitors, months of delay could have been avoided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. But for completeness, Ill address Mr Ds further comments. 
I appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling in respect of how long it took RSA to respond to him 
and ultimately agree cover, but Ive not been provided with evidence which persuades me it 
deliberately prolonged the process to avoid paying legal fees. 
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought RSA had got unnecessarily tangled up in 
whether there was continuous cover when it should have been apparent that Mr D did have 
it. Because this prevented the claim from progressing  and caused Mr D avoidable stress 
for the short period of time he was led to believe he didnt have cover - Ive said RSA must 
pay additional compensation to reflect this. 
Mr D has said had RSA asked for Ws analysis at the start, months of delay could have been 
avoided. Whilst I agree that ultimately, Ws assessment of the legal claim  along with the 
grounds of complaint  was evidence which led to RSAs legal adviser reaching a positive 
prospects of success assessment, Im not persuaded Mr Ds suggestion is fair. I say this 
because RSA did ask for information which was relevant to the claim at the start of the 
process, but Mr D chose not to provide it. So, whilst its likely that had RSA been in receipt of 
Ws analysis earlier on the claim would have progressed more promptly, Im not persuaded 
RSA is at fault for not having acquired it earlier on. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:Increase the hourly rate payable to W to £250 + VAT. This will include any existing 
costs that have already been incurred since 22 September 2021  the date of Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds positive prospects of success assessment. For 
the period after 22 September 2021, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will 
need to pay 8% interest on any legal costs already paid by Mr D from the date he 
paid them, up until the date of settlement  subject to proof of payment. 
Pay an additional £100 compensation. Royal & Sun Alliance must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman