DRN-2822054
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not fairly compensated him for payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies sold to him with credit cards.
What happened
In 1998 Mr S applied for two credit cards a VISA card and a Mastercard. He used a joint 
application form. Barclays has been able to show us the application form which shows Mr S 
declined to add PPI on both cards. 
In May 2005 PPI was added to both cards. The PPI was cancelled on both cards in July 
2005.
Mr S later complained about the sale of PPI.
In September 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr S agreeing to uphold the complaint about the PPI 
on his Mastercard. But Barclays said that as Mr S had never paid any premiums for PPI on 
the Mastercard there was no compensation to be paid.
In October 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr S agreeing to uphold his complaint about the PPI 
added to his VISA card. Barclays said it had no statement data covering the period between 
May and July 2005 so it didnt know how much Mr S had been charged for PPI.
So Barclays offered and paid Mr S a total of £344.58. It said this represented the average 
amount of compensation it paid consumers who had held PPI for a similar length of time.
Mr S remained unhappy with Barclays response to his complaint and asked this service to 
step in.
Barclays has since told us that it does in fact have statement data for the VISA card covering 
the period May to July 2005. Barclays has said this data shows Mr S was not charged any 
PPI premiums for PPI on the VISA card. So it shouldnt have offered Mr S any compensation 
for the VISA card. However Barclays has told us it will not reclaim the £344.58 it paid Mr S.
An adjudicator from this service thought Barclays had acted fairly.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I will explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the original application form from 1998, and I can see Mr S declined PPI 
on both cards.
PPI premiums are charged as a percentage of the outstanding balance on a credit card. 
Therefore if a credit card has a zero balance or is in credit then no PPI premiums will be 
charged.
Ive seen evidence that PPI policies were added to Mr Ss cards in May 2005 and both 
policies were cancelled in July 2005. 
I note that during the period May to July 2005 Mr Ss Mastercard had a small credit balance. 
Therefore he would not have been charged any PPI premiums during the period the policy 
was active. So he was not financially disadvantaged by having been sold the PPI policy and 
no compensation is due.
For the VISA card Barclays has found statement data covering the period between May 
2004 and August 2007. Ive looked at this data and can find no evidence of any PPI 
premiums being charged. There were no statements issued between December 2004 and 
November 2005 because the credit card was not used between these dates. I can see from 
the statements that the balance was cleared in December 2004 and the next available 
statement from November 2005 shows a zero-opening balance. So the card had a zero 
balance between May 2005 and July 2005 when the PPI policy was active.
All this persuades me that Mr S was not charged for any PPI premiums on his VISA card, so 
was not due any compensation.
However Barclays mistakenly offered and paid Mr S an average offer of £344.58 for the PPI 
sold to him on the VISA card.
Barclays has told us it will not attempt to retrieve this from Mr S. And I think that is fair.
Taking everything into account I dont think Mr S was charged for any PPI premiums on 
either his VISA or Mastercard accounts so I dont think he lost out financially due to the 
policies being sold to him. Therefore I dont think it would be fair for me to make any award 
against Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman