DRN-3104669
Complaint
Mr A has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) applied to his current account. Hes said the fees caused him financial hardship 
and also that hes paid far in excess of what he borrowed in interest, fees and charges.
Background and my provisional decision of 28 September 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr As complaint. He thought that Halifax ought to have 
realised Mr A was in financial difficulty when he telephoned to inform of this in September 
2019. 
So he thought that Halifax should refund the fees from this point. Halifax disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
On 28 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on        
Mr As complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by making it clear in that I hadnt considered whether the various amounts Halifax 
charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service 
provided. As ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And 
that wasnt something for me to get involved with.
However, while I didnt look at Halifaxs charging structure, it though that it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr A if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr As 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr A was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So I went on to consider whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr A fairly 
and reasonably. In other words, I considered whether there were periods where Halifax 
continued charging Mr A even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. 
My consideration of this matter started by noting that it wasnt in dispute that Mr A got in 
contact with Halifax in September 2019. And he said that he was in financial difficulty at this 
stage. So I thought that it was clear that Halifax ought to have been on notice Mr A might 
have been experiencing financial difficulty based on what it had been told. In these 
circumstances, I thought it reasonable to expect Halifax to have offered assistance with a 
view to Mr A getting back on track and repaying what he owed. But I didnt think that this in 
itself meant that Mr A was automatically entitled to a refund of all the interest, fees and 
charges added to his account from this point onwards.
I saw that Halifax responded to Mr A request by immediately refunding £100 worth of 
charges and also providing a further 30-day breathing space from any further charges. Mr A 
was also given the option of being referred to Halifaxs Money Management Team but 
declined this. I thought that these were appropriate and proportionate temporary measures 
and so I was satisfied that Halifax did act fairly and reasonably when Mr A initially got in 
contact to say he was struggling.  
I then went on to consider the conduct of Mr As account after he got in contact. I did this 
because even though Mr A might have refused longer-term assistance, I didnt think it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Halifax not to have imposed a longer term solution on    
Mr As overdraft had his account conduct indicated continued and prolonged financial 
difficulty and/or that the facility had become unsustainable. And having considered Mr As 
account conduct after he got in touch with Halifax, I didnt think the circumstances were such 
that they warranted Halifax stepping in and taking such corrective action here.
I considered this the case because, while I wasnt seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mr A expenditure, this clearly wasnt Mr As main account. And most of 
what was going out of this account was non-committed, non-contractual transactions and 
transfers to another account. Equally the amount being credited to Mr As account didnt 
indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage 
either. Indeed, it was my understanding that Mr A didnt manage to clear the overdraft in full 
a little over six months later.
I did accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) meant that Mr A wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty, or that he clearly could repay what he owed. But there 
wasnt anything in what I had seen which clearly showed Mr A was in prolonged difficulty. In 
these circumstances, and given Halifax had provided Mr A with temporary relief and Mr A 
refused the option of a longer-term solution, I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Halifax 
to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did. 
So I didnt think it was the case that Halifax unfairly charged Mr A in circumstances where it 
ought to have realised that he was experiencing financial difficulty. And I let the parties know 
that I was intending to issue a final decision that didnt uphold the complaint.
Halifaxs response to my provisional decision
Halifax responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and acceptance of my 
findings.
 
Mr As response to my provisional decision   
Mr A didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to think 
about.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out. in some detail, why I was intending not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. And as neither party has provided anything further for me to think about, I see no 
reason to depart from these conclusions.  
As this is the case, I still find that Halifax didnt treat Mr A unfairly and that it doesnt need to 
refund any of the interest, fees and charges it added to his overdraft. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 28 September 2021, 
Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman