DRN-2907493
The complaint
On behalf of Mrs G, Mrs M complains about delays in receiving a Telephone Security 
Number (TSN) from HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mrs M also says HSBC made mistakes with the 
spelling of her name when it added her to Mrs Gs account. 
What happened
Mrs M is Mrs Gs daughter and has Power of Attorney (POA) to act on her behalf. Last year, 
Mrs M sent HSBC POA documents that showed she had authority to act on her mothers 
behalf and asked to be added as a third party to the account. HSBC added Mrs M to the 
account but an incorrect spelling of her name was recorded. HSBC also said it would send 
Mrs M a TSN so she could activate telephone banking. 
The TSN wasnt received and in September 2020 HSBC sent a replacement to Mrs M. Shes 
told us the replacement wasnt received either. When discussing her mothers account with 
HSBC Mrs M pointed out that her first name was spelt wrong on its systems. Mrs M was 
asked to attend a branch with identification but says she didnt feel that was reasonable 
given the pandemic and fact shed sent HSBC certified POA documents. 
Mrs M complained on Mrs Gs behalf and HSBC responded in October 2020. HSBC said 
Mrs M could visit a branch with identification to activate telephone banking and amend her 
name. HSBC paid Mrs G £20. 
Mrs M referred Mrs Gs complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. HSBC 
explained it was willing to pay Mrs M £20 as the original settlement had been paid to Mrs G. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly. They asked HSBC to 
send Mrs M another TSN and she has recently confirmed it has been received. 
Mrs M asked to appeal Mrs Gs complaint. HSBC has recently confirmed Mrs Ms name has 
been corrected on its systems. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs M asked for a TSN and replacement to be sent to her so she could activate 
telephone banking. I appreciate Mrs M is seeking to look after Mrs Gs finances and that the 
lack of a TSN meant she didnt have access to telephone banking for an extended period. 
Mrs M has asked HSBC to explain why the TSNs it sent last year werent received. HSBC 
has sent in systems evidence that shows it sent Mrs M two TSNs last year that could be 
used to access telephone banking. I understand Mrs M didnt receive either, but Im satisfied 
the information available shows they were sent as HSBC claims. HSBC says it doesnt send 
this sort of correspondence out as tracked or special delivery. So its not possible to say why 
they werent delivered. But Im satisfied HSBC did write to Mrs M with the TSNs as it says. 
HSBC recently sent another TSN to Mrs M and shes confirmed it has been received. I 
appreciate we asked HSBC to send it via tracked delivery and it wasnt sent that way. But 
Mrs M has confirmed receipt so shes now able to set up telephone banking to access her 
mothers account. 
I recently asked our investigator to go back to HSBC and ask it to consider amending Mrs 
Ms first name on its records. HSBC has confirmed thats now been completed and Mrs M is 
set up correctly, in line with the POA documents it sent. 
I agree can see Mrs M has experienced some trouble and upset in this case, but our service 
can generally only make awards for distress and inconvenience experienced by the 
consumer, or customer. In this case, Mrs G is the account holder and customer so shes the 
consumer. My findings focus on the impact of HSBCs actions on Mrs G, although Ive taken 
on board how the service provided to Mrs M has affected her. 
HSBC paid Mrs G £20 and also agreed to pay Mrs M £20 directly to reflect the 
inconvenience caused. And, as Ive said above, Mrs M has now got the TSN and her name 
has been corrected by HSBC. So the main focus of Mrs Gs complaint has been resolved. 
Im not going to tell HSBC to take any further action. I agree that some of the service 
provided shouldve been better but Im satisfied HSBC has resolved the key issues raised. 
Im pleased HSBC has agreed to pay Mrs M £20 directly, in addition to Mrs G. Im satisfied 
that HSBC has now dealt with Mrs Gs complaint fairly, so Im not going to tell it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed a settelment that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman