DRN-3991835
The complaint
Ms M complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined a claim 
for treatment of her dogs eyes as they say his condition was pre-existing. She doesnt agree 
and wants them to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms M has insurance for her dog with C&G. Her policy started on 14 May 2021. She has a 
lifetime policy for her dog which includes cover for vets fees of up to £4000 in each policy 
year, subject to a £90 policy excess. 
Ms Ms dog has a history of cherry eye in his left eye. This was first diagnosed in 2015. This 
condition arises when the dogs third eyelid, or nictating membrane, prolapses and protrudes 
as a red fleshy mass in the corner of the dogs eye, near to their nose. 
Ms M was aware that her dog suffered from cherry eye. Her vet had offered surgical repair 
on a number of occasions, but as her dog wasnt bothered by the condition, she didnt want 
him to have surgery.
Ms M has told us that she declared the condition when she took out her policy and was 
aware that she wouldnt be covered for any claim related to it. 
In mid-December 2021 Ms M says she noticed her dog was blinking repeatedly and his eyes 
looked slightly bloodshot. He was taken to the vet and diagnosed with conjunctivitis. He was 
prescribed an oral suspension and eye drops. On 28 December 2021, even though his eyes 
looked better, Ms M was worried as he was walking into things and she thought he couldnt 
see clearly. She took him to her vet the following day, who couldnt find any reason for his for 
his problems. She was given further eyedrops and referred to a specialist veterinary 
practice.
The dog was seen there on 4 January 2022 and was prescribed steroids and further eyes 
drops. In was seen again a week later when his left eye had improved, he was able to see 
through it and play with his toys, but his right eye was still red and bulging. 
On 18 January 2022 Ms M was told that due to glaucoma her dog appeared to be 
irreversibly blind in his right eye, and the eye might have to be removed. On 18 February 
2022, as his right eye was causing discomfort, it was removed and at the same time the 
dogs left cherry eye was repaired. Ms M paid for the cherry eye repair herself. But 
submitted a claim to C&G for the treatment of her dogs eye condition and removal of his 
right eye.
C&G declined her claim as they said her dogs clinical records showed that he had a pre-
existing condition, cherry eye in his left eye, which she hadnt told them about when taking 
out her policy. And had she declared this theyd have added an exclusion to her policy  
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Eyes and Sight.
On 11 April 2022 Ms M complained to C&G about her claim being declined. On 10 May 2022 
Ms Ms vet wrote to C&G in support of her claim. He said that when seen on 4 January 2022 
her dog was acutely blind. On examination he was diagnosed with bilateral pan-uveitis 
(inflammation of all layers of the eye), with secondary retinal detachments. The dog 
responded well to medication in his left eye, and regained vision. But his right eye developed 
secondary glaucoma due to the uveitis (inflammation) and had to be removed. 
The dogs long standing cherry eye was repaired to the same time as his right eye was 
removed. The vet confirmed that this repair was paid for separately to the removal of his 
right eye. And that the cherry eye was an unrelated, incidental condition, and had no link to 
the dogs bilateral uveitis or the glaucoma which developed in his right eye.
C&G didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. They said that her dog had a history of problems with 
his left eye. They said she hadnt declared these when she took out her policy. Had she 
done so theyd have added an exclusion to the policy in respect of any claims relating to her 
dogs eyes or sight. And they also said the condition was pre-existing so wasnt covered by 
her policy.
Ms M wasnt happy with C&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and upheld the complaint. He looked at the provisions of the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA) and wasnt satisfied that Ms 
M made any misrepresentation when she took out her policy. 
When taking out her policy online Ms M was asked Are you looking for insurance cover for a 
pre-existing condition. Ms M answered no to this as she wasnt looking for cover for her 
dogs cherry eye. Our investigator felt Ms M had answered this question taking reasonable 
care, as CIDRA required her to do. 
Ms M wasnt asked any questions about whether her dog had any pre-existing conditions, 
only if she wanted cover for any. And if theyd wanted to know about any pre-existing 
conditions our investigator said C&G should have asked a more direct question. So he 
wasnt satisfied that Ms M had made any misrepresentation when taking out her policy.
In addition our investigator said that Ms Ms vet had said that the pan-uveitis and glaucoma 
her dog was treated for werent linked to his cherry eye. And C&G hadnt provided any 
evidence to show this wasnt correct. 
So he didnt think C&G had correctly applied CIDRA when declining Ms Ms claim and said 
they should reassess her claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ms M accepted our investigators opinion, but C&G didnt. They said they accepted that the 
provisions of CIDRA may not be relevant to the case, but the dog had suffered from cherry 
eye for seven years and this underlying condition is likely to have caused the development 
of uveitis due to repeated trauma to the eye. So they maintain that the claim was correctly 
declined under the exclusion for pre-existing conditions.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C&G have said that they accept the provisions of CIDRA may not apply to this case, so Im 
only going to deal briefly with the issue of misrepresentation.Under CIDRA if Ms M made a qualifying misrepresentation when she took out her policy, 
and if theyd been no misrepresentation C&G would have acted differently, then theyd have 
a remedy against her. And in this case, it would allow them to add an exclusion to Ms Ms 
policy in respect of conditions related to her dogs eyes and sight. 
When taking out her policy Ms M wasnt asked a direct question about whether her dog had 
any pre-existing conditions. She was simply asked whether there were any pre-existing 
conditions she wanted cover for. She answered no to this question, as she was aware her 
dog had cherry eye and didnt expect to be covered for this. So Im satisfied she answered 
this question accurately and with reasonable care.
As there was no misrepresentation the provisions of CIDRA dont apply and it wasnt 
reasonable for C&G to add this exclusion to her policy, Excludes cover on all claims with 
respect to The Eyes and Sight, from the start of her policy.
C&G maintain that even if CIDRA doesnt apply it was reasonable for them to have declined 
Ms Ms claim under the general policy exclusion in respect of pre-existing conditions.
Its not in dispute that Ms Ms dog has suffered from left cherry eye. His clinical records 
confirm that this was first diagnosed in 2015. Nor is it in dispute that Ms Ms vet had 
suggested surgery to correct this on a number of occasions. Ms M declined the offer of 
surgery as the condition wasnt bothering her dog. This was her decision as the dogs owner, 
and seems perfectly reasonable, given that every surgery carries certain risks.
So what evidence is there that the pan-uveitis and secondary retinal detachments, and 
subsequent glaucoma in his right eye, that Ms Ms dog developed in late December 2021, 
was related to his cherry eye? There isnt any. In his letter of 11 May 2022 the specialist vet 
the dog was referred to, who is an Advanced Practitioner in Veterinary Ophthalmology 
makes it quite clear that the left cherry eye was incidental and the condition was not 
related in any way to the claim for bilateral uveitis.
C&G havent provided any veterinary evidence to counter this opinion. Theyve simply said 
that There are numerous causes of uveitis, including trauma to the eye and lens damage. 
Untreated cherry eye for such an extended period of time is likely to have caused the 
development of uveitis due to repeated trauma to the eye. And they havent provided any 
evidence to support this statement.
So Im persuaded by the evidence of the treating vet that the condition Ms Ms claimed for in 
2022 wasnt a pre-existing condition. And it wasnt reasonable for C&G to decline her claim.
Mrs M has told us that the way in which C&G have dealt with her claim has caused her 
anxiety, worry and sleepless nights, as her dog is part of her family and she loves him 
dearly. I accept whats shes told us and that shes suffered distress and inconvenience as a 
result of this. 
We let the parties know that I intended to award Ms M compensation for this. Neither party 
has commented on the £250 compensation Ive said I intended to require C&G to pay.
Putting things right
To put things right I require C&G reassess Ms Ms claim on the basis that there was no pre-
existing condition. And as her vet has confirmed that she paid separately for the surgery to 
correct her dogs left cherry eye, no deductions should be made in respect of this.
If Ms M has made any payments to her vet in respect of her dogs treatment, other than for the repair of his left cherry eye then C&G should pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until her claim is settled.
In addition I require C&G to pay Ms M £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of how her claim has been handled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.
And I require them to take the steps set out above to resolve her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman