DRN-4083512
The complaint
Miss F complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost, after she fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In January 2023, Miss F was contacted by somebody claiming to be from HMRC who told 
her that she had an outstanding tax bill. The caller persuaded Miss F to send two payments, 
in the belief that she was settling the bill. But unknown to her at the time, she was speaking 
to a fraudster and had sent money to accounts the fraudsters controlled.
Miss F made transfers totalling £1,680 to the fraudsters, from her Revolut account. A 
breakdown of these payments is listed below;
20 January 2023 @ 11:06 £1,280
20 January 2023 @ 11:17 £400
Miss F soon realised shed been scammed and raised the matter with Revolut, just under 2 
hours after the last payment had been made. Revolut looked into things and issued its final 
response on 31 January 2023. In summary it said it was sorry that these events had 
happened to Miss F, but it didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. It said it had warned Miss F 
about sending money to unknown beneficiaries before shed made the payments. It added 
that it had tried to recover the money lost from the beneficiary banks (the banks to which the 
payments were made), but unfortunately it wasnt able to recover any money.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss F brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think Revolut could reasonably have been expected to prevent the 
payments and he didnt think Revolut ought to have intervened more than it did.
As Miss F didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss F was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the moneys she lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Miss Fs 
losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
Where Miss F authorised the transactions, it means that Revolut was obliged to follow her 
instructions.
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment.
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Revolut did recognise the payments were unusual for Miss F, in comparison to 
how she typically ran her account. In view of this it provided warnings to Miss F at the point 
she was making the payments. And all things considered I think that Revolut did enough in 
providing a warning to Miss F when she made the payments. I think that was a proportionate 
intervention, given the individual circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded Revolut 
needed to do anything more.
Im also satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in attempting to recover Miss Fs funds, but that it 
wasnt able to recover money from the beneficiary accounts. Sadly, it is quite typical with 
these types of scams for fraudsters to move money away from the beneficiary account, 
straight after the payments are made, presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of 
recovery, which was the case here.
Its very unfortunate Miss F has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done more to 
prevent Miss F from losing her money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman