DRN-3681936
Complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank plc has declined to refund his losses of over £18,000
after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision rejecting this complaint on 2 August 2022. That decision was 
as follows:
Mr K encountered a company (T) who persuaded him to invest in Bitcoin, arguably the most 
well-known of all cryptocurrencies. He was shown examples of how they purportedly made 
money; and they helped him open an account so he could start investing, showing him what 
to do. This was done through AnyDesk, a remote access software tool he had downloaded on 
their advice.
Between 12 March and 1 May 2020, Mr K made several payments via plastic card to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange (Jubiter) with whom he had set up an account. He was 
then provided with a crypto wallet address after making deposits, which he assumed was his. 
Unbeknown to Mr K, his crypto coins were in fact sent to the fraudster, who controlled the 
wallet.
By the end of April 2020, Mr K wanted to withdraw his money, but he was encouraged by T to 
invest more. He eventually realised something was wrong when he saw alleged losses from 
the investment; and because T had broken their promise to return some money to him. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She concluded that HSBC ought to have 
intervened when Mr K made the fourth payment to Jubiter. Had HSBC done so, she believed 
that its interventione.g. asking appropriate questions about the payments and warning 
about the high risk of cryptocurrency fraudwould have led both the bank and Mr K to realise 
this was a scam. The investigator said (amongst other things) that HSBC ought to refund 
Mr K the full losses he had incurred from the fourth payment onwards.
HSBC disagrees. It has provided a comprehensive response, the key points of which are as
follows:
HSBC disagreed that it ought to have been concerned by the payments. The payments 
were not remarkable as they were generally low value, and there were no regulatory 
warnings in place about Jubiter, a legitimate company. Also, by the time the fourth 
payment had been made, there was already a pattern of similar payments to Jubiter.
Based on limited information, it could not foresee that a call with Mr K at the time of the 
fourth payment would have stopped him from making payments altogether.
The investigator had not considered whether Mr K ought to bear some of the loss, i.e. 
whether there was any contributory negligence on his part. 
What I have provisionally decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. In my judgment, this complaint cannot 
reasonably be upheld  for the reasons that follow.
I firstly want to acknowledge how devastating it must be for Mr K to have fallen victim to this 
scam; and I am mindful of the impact it continues to have on him. I appreciate his strength of 
feeling in pursuing this matter. But despite my natural sympathy for his losses, I can only 
uphold this complaint if the evidence shows that HSBC ought to have intervened whilst the 
payments were being authorised by Mr K. However, on the particular facts of this case, I am 
satisfied there was no duty on HSBC to intervene.
Good industry practice
There is no dispute that Mr K authorised these payments; nor that he fell victim to a scam. In 
line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the starting position is that a payer is 
presumed liable for the payments he has authorised using the security credentials provided to 
him by the Payment Services Provider (PSP). Nevertheless, banks and PSPs are expected to 
have measures in place, in line with good industry practice, to detect unusual or 
uncharacteristic activity in order to prevent fraud and financial crime  and to intervene 
appropriately if their fraud detection systems are triggered by something odd.
Mr K submitted that there was an intervention by HSBC before the first successful payment. 
However, HSBC disputes this. It says none of the card payments was flagged on its fraud 
prevention system, and there is no evidence that it spoke with him on the phone. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary from Mr K, it appears that HSBC had no concerns about 
these payments  so I am minded to conclude there was no intervention by the bank.
HSBC has provided us with bank statements from the account opening, which was only about 
five months before the first scammed payment. As this was a relatively new account, it would 
clearly be harder for HSBC to detect patterns of behaviour, or to conclude that certain 
activities and payments were abnormal and out of character for this account and customer. 
All the disputed payments were in themselves of a relatively low value: mainly between £300 
and £1,000; with a few up to £2,500 towards the end of the scam. I would not have expected 
HSBCs fraud detectors to be triggered by such payments, particularly as the ostensible 
payee (Jubiter) is a legitimate trading platform. Whilst there might have been a slight cause 
for concern given that funds were firstly being credited into Mr Ks account from another 
account of his before being sent to Jubiter, these were spread out over several days and 
weeks. Ultimately, I do not consider it was enough to have raised alarm. On the contrary, I 
think over time it created a pattern of behaviour that appeared normal for this account.
Overall, I do not consider HSBC missed a natural opportunity to have questioned Mr K about 
the payments he was making. If there was no duty to intervene in the first place, it follows that 
questions of causation (i.e. whether any intervention would have made a difference) and 
contributory negligence fall away.
I will go on to consider whether HSBC treated Mr K fairly and reasonably in all other material
respects.
Chargeback
HSBC did not consider that Mr K had chargeback rights. A chargeback is a voluntary scheme 
run by card providers  in this case Visa. The scheme provider arbitrates on disputes 
between a customer and a merchant in circumstances where they have not been able to 
resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme
which are set solely by Visaand there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can 
be raised. There are also strict time limits which apply.
Mr K has stated that his dealings were with T  so, in his view, Jubiter only acted as the 
middleman. However, a chargeback can only be raised against the merchant he actually paid, 
which was Jubiter. Mr K says that, every time he deposited money, he was provided with a 
crypto wallet address. The funds were then moved out of his Jubiter wallet by the scammer 
(who had presumably gained covert access via AnyDesk when the account was set up). 
Accordingly, on Mr Ks own version of events, it seems that Jubiter provided the services for 
which it contracted, namely, it provided him with Bitcoin in return for fiat currency and followedostensiblyhis instructions to transfer funds from his wallet to the fraudster. 
In the circumstances, HSBCs decision not to pursue a chargeback seems fair. I can see no 
reasonable prospects of success under the applicable Visa scheme rules against a legitimate 
merchant who simply carried out instructions, seemingly from its client, to exchange and/or 
transfer currency.
In summary, having considered matters very carefully, I am not minded to uphold this 
complaint. I realise Mr K has cumulatively lost a lot of money as the result of a cruel scam. 
But I can only uphold a complaint and make an award if I am persuaded the bank has acted 
unlawfully, unfairly or unreasonably. I am not persuaded that is the case here.  
Responses to the provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC confirmed that it has no further submissions to make on this case. We have not 
received a response from Mr K  and the deadline for responding expired on 31 August 
2022. 
My final decision
As HSBC has effectively accepted my findings, and Mr K has not challenged them on time or 
at all, my final decision is to reject this complaint for the reasons set out in the provisional 
decision (and repeated above).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Mark Sceeny
Ombudsman