DRN-3737796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) handling of their claim 
under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B noticed that their boiler had a small leak. They contacted who they believed 
was their home emergency providers and initially found it difficult to get help from the correct 
department. Eventually, IPA accepted the claim and sent an engineer to attend to the boiler. 
He advised that the boiler could be repaired but it needed a part. But as the part was coming 
from abroad, this could take between one to two weeks for it to arrive. 
Mr and Mrs B explained that the engineer asked them if they wanted the water isolated but 
as this would mean no heating or hot water, they opted to place a bucket by the leak. A short 
while later, the electricity in their home went off. When they investigated the cause, they 
found that the boiler was leaking more water and this short circuited the system, rendering 
the boiler irreparable. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted the engineer who had attended but when he didnt answer the 
phone, they left a message and contacted an independent engineer. That engineer attended 
and ultimately replaced the boiler, at a cost of £2,000. The engineer told them that the IPA 
engineer ought to have isolated the water and the gas going into the boiler. He said that the 
leak would have been a straightforward repair. He then isolated the boiler and gas. And the 
next day installed a new boiler as he deemed the previous boiler irreparable.  
Mr and Mrs B contacted IPA as they believed that the engineer it sent, damaged the boiler 
and this resulted in them having to spend £2,000 on a new boiler. IPA said that there was no 
evidence to show that its engineer had done so, and it refused to reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs 
costs. Mr and Mrs B told IPA that they were in the process of getting a report from the 
independent engineer, that would show that its engineer was at fault. But before Mr and Mrs 
B could obtain the report. IPA issued its final response, which maintained its position. 
Mr and Mrs B gave IPA the report from the independent engineer. The report concluded that 
the leak wouldve been a straightforward repair and that the engineer ought to have isolated 
both the water and gas to prevent further damage, which wasnt done. But this didnt change 
its mind. So, Mr and Mrs B referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that IPA shouldve and couldve done more to explain the potential consequences of not 
isolating the water. He was persuaded by the independent engineers report that the original 
leak would have been easily repaired and that had this been done, the boiler wouldnt have 
leaked further and caused irreparable damage. Also, he noted that the IPA engineer didnt 
isolate the gas. He recommended that IPA reimburse Mr and Mrs B the cost of the boiler - 
£2,000. As well as pay them £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted the view, IPA did not. It said that Mr and Mrs B wanted the water left 
on while parts were being sourced. It felt that Mr and Mrs B didnt give them a chance to 
quote for the replacement boiler. If they had done, they couldve replaced the boiler within 48 
hours, but they appointed another contractor to carry out the work. And as Mr and Mrs B had 
told then to leave the water on, it was impossible for them to turn off the gas as this would 
have been a criminal offence, as the engineer wouldnt have had permission to do so. So, 
they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. But for much the same reason as our 
investigator, and I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have carefully considered what each party has said and the evidence that has been 
presented. I think that the main issue of this complaint is whether IPA gave Mr and Mrs B 
enough information, to make an informed choice of the potential consequences of not 
isolating the water or the gas supply to the boiler. 
IPA said that Mr and Mrs B asked for the water to not be isolated. And because of this 
request, the engineer followed this and couldnt isolate the gas supply either. The reason 
IPA gave for not isolating the gas supply was that it hadnt been given any permission from 
Mr and Mrs B to isolate the gas supply. And had it isolated it, it wouldve been committing a 
criminal offence. 
I should make it clear that I dont think there is enough evidence to show that the engineer in 
some way tampered with the boiler that caused damage to it. The most the independent 
engineer said was that the IPA engineer who attended did not repair the boiler. So, I cant 
agree that the fault with the boiler was due to IPAs engineer. 
Nevertheless, IPA hasnt provided enough evidence to show that it fully advised Mr and Mrs 
B about the consequences of not isolating the boiler. It said that Mr and Mrs B wanted the 
water on so that they could still access heating and hot water. But Mr and Mrs B are not 
boiler engineers and the expert here wouldve been the engineer who was sent by IPA. 
I have read IPAs detailed reply to our investigators view.  But at no time did it provide any 
evidence that it gave advice to or had an in-depth discussion with Mr and Mrs B, as to the 
possible effects of not turning the water off. And this, I think is the reason why IPA ought to 
have done more to highlight the dangers and to avoid further damage to Mr and Mrs Bs 
boiler. 
I say this, as the independent engineer in his report said that it was a simple repair that had 
the boiler been isolated, could have been repaired without further damage. Mr and Mrs B 
confirmed that they were not informed about the potential consequences. And had they been 
informed of them they wouldve followed the advice given. 
Further, I think this also applies to IPA failing to isolate the gas supply to the boiler. IPA said 
that because it wasnt given permission from Mr and Mrs B to isolate the water, then it had 
no permission to isolate the gas. I have considered the independent engineers report and 
he said that it was a requirement under the gas regulations to isolate the gas supply, given 
that there was a leak. IPA hasnt provided any evidence that it advised Mr and Mrs B that the gas supply would 
need to be isolated due to the requirements under the gas regulations. Nor can I see that it 
took steps to adhere to the gas regulations and isolate the gas supply as was required. I 
think this wouldve been necessary given that Mr and Mrs B were not experts and wouldve 
been relying on the advice of IPAs engineer. Accordingly, I think that the absence of any 
advice given to Mr and Mrs B contributed to the further damage caused to their boiler. And 
as such, IPA ought to reimburse Mr and Mrs B the costs they incurred to replace the boiler. 
Mr and Mrs B said that the new boiler cost £2,000 and IPA ought to reimburse this on 
production of an invoice.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B would have suffered minimal impact as a result of IPAs 
actions. And because of this, I think it is fair that IPA pay compensation of £100, for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Putting things right
Taking all of this into consideration and to put matters right, I direct IPA as below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I will uphold this complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA must reimburse Mr and Mrs B £2,000 on production of an 
invoice, for the new boiler. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the above within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman