DRN-2917279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about term assurance policies sold to them in 2000 by Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs W spoke with Sun Life as they were re-mortgaging their property. Their 
financial advisor recommended a joint decreasing term life assurance policy which matched 
the amount and term of the new mortgage amount. The policy also had additional benefits of 
critical illness and personal disability cover.
For medical reasons Mr W wasnt eligible for the additional benefits so a policy covering life 
only was set up for him. Mrs W was eligible for the additional benefits so a separate policy 
was set up for her as recommended.
The policy for Mrs W lapsed in March 2020 due to unpaid premiums, and the policy for Mr W 
came to a natural end in September 2020. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to Sun Life about the sale of the policies saying they had been 
paying substantial premiums for very little cover. They thought the policies were mis-sold at 
a time when they were under pressure to secure a mortgage and that they shouldve had 
level term cover rather than a decreasing policy.
Sun Life looked into the sale of the policies but didnt uphold the complaint as they thought 
the policies were suitable. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They thought the recommendation for cover 
was reasonable as it offered protection for the mortgage. They explained the cost of cover 
was outlined at the time the policies were taken out and that Mr and Mrs Ws documented 
needs at the time were covered by the policies.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed saying the mis-selling of these policies was similar to the mis-
selling of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policies were sold in 2000 which is some 20 years ago. In situations like this where a lot 
of time has passed, and there isnt a full record of what happened, I must come to a decision 
on the balance of probabilities as to what I think was mostly likely to have happened. 
Mr and Mrs W have provided a lot of information about their complaint and why they feel the 
policies were mis-sold. I want to assure Mr and Mrs W that Ive read everything theyve 
provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised what happened which reflects 
the informal nature of our service.
The policies sold to Mr and Mrs were decreasing term policies. This means that they are set 
for term of the mortgage, and that the sum assured decreases over that term in line with the 
mortgage balance. This type of policy is usually cheaper than a level term policy where the 
sum assured stays the same for the whole term. Those type of policies are usually more 
suitable where a customer has a need for extra cover, and they come at a high cost.
Mr and Mrs W say they couldve taken out a level term policy for the price they were paying 
for the decreasing term cover, or at least that they shouldve been advised ten years ago 
that a cheaper policy might be found elsewhere. This might be the case, however what I 
must consider is what happened at the time the policies were sold. And having reviewed the 
available evidence Im satisfied a decreasing term policy was suitable, as it usually is with a 
capital and repayment mortgage such as the one Mr and Mrs W were setting up. Ive also 
seen no evidence from the time that Mr and Mrs W were looking for extra cover that a level 
term policy wouldve have provided.
Ive also considered the overall suitability of the policies by looking at the available 
documentation from the time. This shows Mr and Mrs W were looking for cover in the event 
of death, critical illness or disability. The policies sold to Mr and Mrs W met these needs. 
After meeting with their financial advisor Sun Life sent Mr and Mrs W a letter confirming the 
details of their conversation and the policy recommendation. Mr and Mrs W say they have no 
recollection of receiving the letter. Sun Life have no proof of the letter being sent, and after 
20 odd years I wouldnt expect there to be. What is clear is that Mr and Mrs W met with their 
financial advisor, they discussed their needs in light of the substantial increase to their 
mortgage and a policy was recommended which met those needs. Mr and Mrs W dont 
seem to dispute this took place, and I dont doubt them when they say they never received 
the letter, but not receiving the letter doesnt mean the policy wasnt suitable. 
The separate policies probably did cost Mr and Mrs W more over the years than the cost of a 
joint policy as was originally recommended. However the policies were split into individual 
policies as Mr W wasnt eligible for the critical illness and personal disability parts of the 
recommended cover. I havent seen any evidence of what was discussed when this 
happened, which is unsurprising considering the 20 odd years that have passed since the 
change took place. But it seems reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs W agreed to this change 
as the separate policies were set up, they were provided with policy documentation and the 
premiums were paid.
Mr and Mrs W also have concerns they were pressured into taking the policy and may have 
been led to believe it was a condition of the mortgage when it wasnt. Having seen a copy of 
the mortgage offer its clear that life cover wasnt a condition of the mortgage. However I 
havent seen any evidence from the time of the sale showing Mr and Mrs W were pressured 
into taking out the policy. The documentation from the time shows that the cover was 
discussed with Mr and Mrs Ws financial advisor and this was followed up with full policy 
information once the cover was set up.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the policies that Sun Life sold 
Mr and Mrs W were suitable for their needs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman