DRN-3961344
The complaint
Mr B complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender didnt check to see whether he 
could afford repay his loans.   
What happened
Mr B was advanced five loans between October 2016 and January 2022 in two lending 
chains. A summary of his borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £300.00 01/08/2016 20/10/2016 3 £151.20
2 £750.00 24/10/2016 20/03/2017 3 £396.25
3 £500.00 20/03/2017 28/07/2017 3 £286.66
break in lending 
4 £300.00 02/12/2021 23/01/2022 3 £149.60
5 £1,500.00 23/01/2022 outstanding 6 £550.00
Following Mr Bs complaint Mr Lender wrote to him and explained that loans 1, 2 and 4 were 
affordable based on the information that he had provided. For loans 3 and 5 
Mr Lender upheld these loans because it says it couldve increased the checks that it made 
before granting them. In order to put things right for Mr B, Mr Lender offered to.
refund the interest paid towards loan 3 and pay 8% simple interest on the refund
collect only the capital amount advanced for loan 5  
offset the refund due for loan 3 against the balance due for loan 5 
if needed, offer a sustainable repayment plan for Mr B to repay what is owed and 
once the balance has been settled remove loans 1  5 from Mr Bs credit file. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in her assessment, she said she 
wouldnt be looking at loans 3 and 5, because in her view, Mr Lender had already made a 
fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Mr B. Indeed, she confirmed the offer was in 
line with what she may have recommended had she agreed the loans ought to not have 
been provided.  
The adjudicator then considered the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 4 and she said based on 
the information gathered by Mr Lender it had made a reasonable decision to lend.  
Mr B didnt accept the outcome. Initially he asked about the refund amount due. He then 
explained hed like to take this matter further because at the time he was in serious financial 
trouble and had a low credit score. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Mr B told Mr Lender his monthly income was £2,200. Mr B also declared 
monthly outgoings of £755 across a number of different categories such as rent, food and 
other regular outgoings to name a few. Mr Lender believed, based on the information Mr B provided he had around £1,445 per 
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £151.20. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable for Mr B. 
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Mr Lender was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference 
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained within it 
that wouldve either prompted Mr Lender to have carried out further checks or possibly have 
declined Mr Bs application.
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr B wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
within the three years preceding the loan. In addition, it also knew that Mr B didnt have any 
active payday loans at the time.  
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Mr B was in 
financial difficulties or was likely having problems managing his existing credit commitments. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to 
have relied on the information Mr B provided to it  which showed he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments. And there wasnt anything else to suggest that 
Mr B was having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for him for some other reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr B had successfully repaid loan 1, without any apparent problems and he returned for loan 
2 four days later. 
The same sort of checks was carried out by Mr Lender before it approved this loan and 
those checks, in my view were still proportionate to the circumstances. Mr B declared his 
monthly income was £2,200 with monthly outgoings of £755. There was still sufficient 
disposable income for Mr Lender to be reasonably confident that Mr B could afford his 
repayments. 
A credit check was also carried out before this loan was approved, and the results showed 
much the same as they did for loan one, expect this time Mr B had one outstanding payday 
loan.  But given the proximity to loan 1, I dont think it is unreasonable to conclude that the 
payday loan Mr Lender was told about was actually his first loan. 
It was still early on in the lending relationship, and I once again think it was entirely 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have approved this loan based on the information that it was 
given. I also dont yet think it had reached the point where it wouldve either have thought the 
loan was unsustainable for Mr B or it had yet reached the stage where it needed to verify the 
information he had provided. 
So, I am also not upholding Mr Bs complaint about this loan. Loan 4
There was a significant break of over 41 months between Mr B repaying loan 3 and returning 
for loan 4. This break is in my view, more than enough for Mr Lender to have treated Mr B as 
if he was a new customer. So, although this was Mr Bs fourth loan in total for the purpose of 
thinking about what checks it ought to have done, Mr Lender could treat Mr Bs application 
afresh and if it was his first loan. And as Ive explained earlier on in this decision this will 
impact the type and level of checks I think it ought to have carried out. 
For this loan, Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks as they had done for loans 1 
and 2. Mr B declared a monthly income of £2,600. Mr B also declared monthly outgoings of 
£1,404 across the same categories as he was previously asked about. 
Mr Lender believed, based on the information Mr B provided he had around £1,196 per 
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £149.60. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr Lender to believe this loan was affordable for Mr B. 
As before, Mr Lender also carried out the same sort of credit search and it has provided the 
summary of those results. Mr Lender was told that Mr B didnt have any outstanding payday 
loans. According to the results, Mr B also didnt have any outstanding CCJs or IVAs which 
had been recorded within the previous 3 years. As before, there were no signs, in the credit 
check results which indicated Mr B was in financial difficulties or was having problems 
managing his existing credit commitments. 
It was early on in a new lending chain, so I still think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have 
relied on what Mr B told it as well as the credit check results. 
The checks also showed Mr Lender that he had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments. There also wasnt anything else in the information it obtained which suggested 
Mr B was having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about this loan.
Loans 3 and 5
I wont be making a finding about these two loans because in the final response letter for 
loan 3 Mr Lender has agreed to refund any interest that has been paid by Mr B (with 8% 
simple interest and tax deducted), use this refund to reduce the capital Mr B owes it for the 
fifth loan and finally, it has agreed to remove any adverse information from his credit file 
about loans 1 - 5. Which is broadly in line with what we would direct Mr Lender to do if we 
had found in favour of Mr B for loans 3 and 5.  
Mr Lender has reiterated to us that the offer it made in the final response letter is still 
available to Mr B and it has confirmed that he paid £100 in interest for loan 3 (before the 8% 
interest is applied). I therefore wont be looking at the loans in this decision because in my 
view, Mr Lender has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Mr B in relation 
to these loans. 
To be clear, if I were to look at these loans, and decided that they ought not to have been 
granted to Mr B  than I wouldve asked Mr Lender to in effect make the loans interest free 
and then update Mr Bs credit file. So, what Mr Lender has already agreed to do is what I 
wouldve likely asked it to do  had no offer been made and I decided the loans ought not to 
have been provided.So, the offer put forward by Mr Lender in the final response letter is fair and reasonable to 
resolve this part of his complaint and I am not going to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 1, 2 
and 4.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve 
the complaint about loans 3 and 5 and it should do what it has agreed to do in the final 
response letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman