DRN-3837401
The complaint
Mr M complained about Automobile Association Developments Limiteds service in relation
to his breakdown assistance policy.
What happened
Mr M said that AA were inflexible when he wanted to change the car on his breakdown
assistance policy and they misinformed him about his options under it, which caused him
financial loss. He wanted AA to compensate him for that. AA said they had acted fairly and in
line with their policy terms.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that AA
had correctly followed the terms of the policy in not allowing refund or suspension and hadnt
acted unreasonably. Mr M didnt agree, and I was asked to decide. 
I provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint, and I issued that decision on 31 October. 
Mr M responded to that, and I deal with that below. AA didnt comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
Mr M had taken out a two-year policy with AA. His premium was about £66 a year. It still had
about 18 months left on it when he decided to sell his car and buy a new one. The new car
came with a years free breakdown cover with AA. So Mr M asked AA on the phone for a
refund for the remaining term of the policy, or if he could suspend the policy for a year and
then put his new car on it instead.
He said that AA told him that his policy didnt allow either of those options, and that his only
option was to cancel it. He felt that they were inflexible and that at the very least they should
refund him about £66 because hed used less than one year of the two-year policy.
 He said that only after he complained to AA, did they tell him that the policy could have 
transferred with the car to any new owner. He said that if hed known that earlier, he wouldnt 
have cancelled the policy and that it would have increased his old cars trade-in value. He 
felt that hed lost out financially because of this and he wanted AA to compensate him for 
that loss.
Ive looked at the policy and it says on the front page that the policy assistance  is only
available in connection with the ...vehicle to which it relates . It later also says that The
cover you have purchased is vehicle based cover and cannot be transferred to another
vehicle.
It also says on page 6 that policyholders have a right to cancel within a 14 day cooling off
period, after buying or renewing the policy, but after that We will not be obliged to give a
refund for any unexpired period of Your Assistance Cover.
So this means that AA are not required under the policy either to change a car on the policy
or give any refund after the 14-day cancellation period. I think those terms are clear and are
common in this type of policy, and so I dont think AA acted unreasonably there.
I know Mr M thinks that they were inflexible in not allowing him to suspend the policy or to
put his new car on it a year later, but we think that type of decision affects the risk they are
willing to take and so is a commercial matter for an insurer. Thats not something with which
we would normally interfere.
Ive also listened to the recording of the call when Mr M renewed the policy in August 2021.
AAs adviser did explain the above cancellation rights to Mr M, so she made it clear that
there was no refund after 14 days. That call is also relevant to the issue of whether the
benefit of the policy transfers with the car. My view on that issue differs from the
investigators opinion.
In the August renewal call, the adviser asked Mr M if the policy still met his needs or if hed
like her to go over it, but Mr M he said he didnt need her to do so. She also said that if he
changed the car, the benefit of the cover would go with the vehicle. Mr M then renewed his
policy for two years, when he had the option of one. The adviser said that AA would send out
the policy documents and that Mr M should check their terms and conditions on receipt to
ensure the cover continued to meet his needs. So I dont think its fair to say that it was only
once Mr M had complained to AA that they told him that the policy cover transferred with the
vehicle.
Mr M says AA should have, but didnt, mention it when he called them in about March 2022
to ask about the policy options on buying his new car. He said they told him his only option
was to cancel the policy. He said that made him lose out on a potential higher trade-in value
for his car, but he hasnt given us anything persuasive to support that claim.
AA have been unable to give us the recording of that call. Thats unfortunate, but Ive no
reason to think that it was deliberate. In any event, even if it were true that AA didnt tell Mr
M in that call that the policy cover went with the car and so Mr M could pass it on sale to new
owner, I dont think that makes any difference. Thats because I dont think that AA were
under any positive obligation at that point to advise Mr M of that feature of the policy. AA
have shown that they informed Mr M about it before he renewed the policy and theyd
offered then to explain the policys features again before he bought it. I think that was
enough.
I do see that Mr M has found this situation frustrating and thinks that AA should have done
more for him as a longstanding customer. However Im looking at whether AA did anything
wrong, and I dont think that they did. This means that I dont ask them to do anything else.  
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M thought that under the relevant rules AA should 
have kept all calls for a certain period but hadnt complied with that. Im not going to 
comment on that because its not our role to regulate or to punish businesses. 
I can see Mr M thinks that it is unfair that the call which AA cant provide is the one which he 
says supports his account of events. I realise that must be galling. However Ive no reason to 
suspect the loss of the call was deliberate. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, AA had already told him that the policy could 
continue after he sold the car. I still dont think that in the March call AA were required to tell 
him that again. And though he felt that, after he complained, AA should have offered to reinstate the policy, that was a discretionary matter for them, and so I cant say they were 
wrong not to offer that. This means that I maintain my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
