DRN-4040359
The complaint
Mr S complains that Telefonica UK Limited (Telefonica) treated him unfairly in relation to 
more than one fixed sum loan he held with it.
What happened
Mr S was provided with three fixed sum loans by Telefonica to finance the purchase of 
electronic devices. I understand he was also provided with separate service agreements to 
use each of the devices on Telefonicas mobile network.
In September 2021 Mr S raised concerns with the network issues he says hed experienced 
whilst using his devices. It seems that between then and January 2022 Mr S and Telefonica 
spoke about that matter a number of times.
Mr S chose to end his service agreements with Telefonica and he was told hed therefore be 
required to pay the outstanding balances of his fixed sum loans in full. Mr S and Telefonica 
subsequently spoke about an arrangement to repay the outstanding balances, however, Mr 
S ultimately raised a complaint because he didnt think that Telefonica was treating him 
fairly.
In response, Telefonica said that it had offered to allow Mr S to spread the remainder of the 
outstanding lending over a six-month period. It said Mr S had made an offer to repay £25 per 
month (per agreement) but later said he wanted to pay a lesser sum, and agreed for the 
debts to be passed to a debt collection agency. Overall, it considered it had treated Mr S 
fairly in the circumstances by refusing to accept an arrangement which would take more than 
six months.
Mr S referred a complaint to this service. He said, in summary, that Telefonica hadnt treated 
him fairly by not accepting payments which wouldve taken longer than six months to repay 
the outstanding balances. He accepted that that he had agreed for the accounts to be 
passed to a debt collection agent, but said that when he made contact he was referred back 
to Telefonica and effectively prevented from making repayments. Mr S said hed spent over 
150 hours on the phone trying to resolve matters and considered that the information 
Telefonica had recorded with credit reference agencies (CRAs) was inaccurate.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said; 
- Mr S was reasonably aware that hed need to repay the outstanding balances of his 
fixed sum loans before choosing to end his network service agreements and that 
Telefonica would accept payments over a six month period; 
- Mr S subsequently said that wasnt suitable for him and agreed for the debts to be 
passed to a debt collection agent; and 
- they werent satisfied that Mr S had been prevented from making any payments 
towards the debts.
Mr S maintained that the debt collection agent wouldnt accept payment from him and that 
the information recorded with CRAs regarding the matter was inaccurate. He asked for a 
decision on the case so it was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on the case. In summary, I said;
The fixed sum loans Mr S complains about are regulated agreements as well as ones which 
this service has the power to consider complaints about. We dont, in the circumstances, 
have the power to consider a complaint relating to the unregulated network service 
agreements Mr S was given.
Having reviewed Mr Ss fixed sum loans, Im satisfied that they allowed Telefonica to 
terminate the agreements and require Mr S to repay the outstanding balances immediately 
in the event that an associated network service agreement was terminated.
Telefonicas records show that this was discussed with Mr S in January 2021 before he 
asked it to terminate his associated network service agreements. They also show that 
Telefonica had suggested it might allow Mr S up to six months to repay the outstanding 
balances. The records suggest that Mr S agreed to that, so I think he ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the payments hed need to make, and the timeframes involved.
Telefonica wrote to Mr S with termination notices in late January 2021. They asked Mr S to 
repay the balances of his fixed sum loans within 14 days. Mr S repaid one of the loans in full, 
leaving the balances of two to be repaid. Mr S and Telefonica had a number of discussions 
about a possible arrangement to repay the balances over a longer time, but ultimately Mr S 
said he wasnt able to repay the lending within six months.
Ive seen that Mr S submitted an income and expenditure report to Telefonica in which he 
offered to pay a total of £50 a month towards the total debt of around £500, over 10 months. 
However, Im satisfied that Telefonica didnt accept this because it wouldve taken longer 
than six months to repay the balances. Im persuaded by way of the evidence Ive seen, both 
from Telefonica as well as Mr S, that Mr S then agreed for Telefonica to pass the balances 
owing to a debt collection agent to arrange a payment arrangement over a longer term.
Given that Telefonica was entitled under Mr Ss agreement to require him to repay the 
outstanding lending immediately, I think that Telefonica met its obligations to treat Mr S with 
due consideration and forbearance by offering to allow him to repay the balances within six 
months. I also dont think it was unreasonable for Telefonica to have decided to pass Mr Ss 
accounts to a debt collection agent at the point it was clear he wasnt able to meet that 
timeframe, and it seems Mr S was happy for it to do so.
Telefonica had an obligation to record accurate information regarding Mr Ss accounts with 
CRAs. Its shown this service that in relation to both accounts, it represented where 
payments had not been made each month before ultimately defaulting both loans around six 
months from the date of the last payment.
Theres more than one way Telefonica couldve reported what had happened. For example, 
at the point it was clear Mr S wasnt able to repay the balances immediately (as he was 
required to), or at least within six months, it couldve defaulted the accounts straight away. 
But I think by recording what it has, its demonstrated that it allowed Mr S a reasonable 
chance to make payments and perhaps avoid defaults being recorded. And because Mr S 
failed to either repay the debts in 14 days, or within the six months that Telefonica had asked 
him to, I think it was reasonable for Telefonica to record defaults.
Mr S contends that he wasnt given sufficient information to be able to make payments, so he was effectively stopped from doing so. I think that Mr S was reasonably aware that his 
accounts had been passed to a specific debt collection agent. The agents provided its 
contact records and they show that Mr S spoke it once offering to make payment, but on the 
basis that adverse information was removed from his credit file. It seems a payment 
arrangement was not reached, and Mr S made no further offers to pay sums towards the 
accounts. None of the evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr S has spent an 
unreasonable amount of time pursuing the issue.
In any event, whether or not Mr S was caused to be confused about how to make payments, 
I think it was clear shortly after the agreements were terminated that he wouldnt be able to 
repay the account balances within the 14 days he was required to, or the six months that 
Telefonica offered to accept. So, I think it was inevitable that both the loan accounts in 
question were ultimately going to be defaulted. As such, I cannot fairly require Telefonica to 
remove either default.
Lastly, Im aware that Mr S has raised some very recent concerns about confusion being 
caused about who to make payments to. Hes said that the debt collection agent has now 
passed the debt back to Telefonica. Telefonica has told this service that the account is still 
with the debt collection agent. This isnt a point that Telefonica has had the opportunity to 
respond to, given that Mr S has made this point within the last month or so. As a result, I 
make no finding on it, but Id nonetheless expect Telefonica to be clear with Mr S about how 
and where he can make payments in light of any confusion.
Overall, it's clear from what Mr S has said that he feels strongly about whats happened, and 
I appreciate that hell likely be disappointed with my provisional decision. However, for all of 
the reasons explained above, I dont think that Telefonica needs to do anymore to resolve 
this complaint.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. He said that hed provided evidence which 
showed Telefonica had caused uncertainty about where Mr S should make payments and 
still hadnt given him payment details. He also provided a letter from a debt collection agent, 
dated June 2022 which said the account was on hold. He pointed out that if Telefonica had 
been clearer about where payments needed to be made, he couldve repaid the debts by 
now. Mr S maintained that the information Telefonica recorded on his credit file was 
inaccurate as the two accounts had been defaulted on different dates.
Telefonica accepted my provisional decision. It clarified that Mr Ss accounts had been 
passed back to it in February 2023 and provided our investigator with payment details to 
pass to Mr S. 
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint I need to address here  and the one which Mr S raised with Telefonica  is 
about whether Mr S was treated fairly at the point his fixed sum loans were terminated. That 
extends to whether Telefonica recorded accurate information about those loans on Mr Ss 
credit file. It doesnt, however, cover more recent issues Mr S has raised about being given 
ambiguous information about where to make payments. Should Mr S wish to pursue that 
point, he might be able to raise it as a further complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Telefonica was entitled to ask Mr S to repay the outstanding balances of his fixed sum loans 
immediately. Im satisfied Mr S was aware of this before deciding to terminate them.
Im also satisfied that Telefonica allowed Mr S a reasonable opportunity to repay the 
outstanding balances of his loan, and when it was clear Mr S wasnt able to do this, it passed 
the accounts to a debt collection agent, which Mr S agreed with at the time. 
The evidence Ive been provided shows that Mr S made contact with the debt collection 
agent but declined to make payment unless it was willing to come to an arrangement to 
remove adverse information from his credit file. Im also satisfied that Mr S was reasonably 
aware of where and how to repay the outstanding balances of his loans after theyd been 
passed to a debt collection agent. 
The letter Mr S has provided from the debt collection agent, dated 13 June 2022, 
acknowledges that he had made a complaint to Telefonica and said that its accounts would 
be placed on hold until it received further instruction. It also mentioned that Mr S could 
contact it directly about payments in the meantime.
At this point I dont think that Mr S ought to have been under the impression that it wasnt 
necessary for him to repay the outstanding balances of his loans. From everything hes said, 
I think that Mr S accepts that. From everything Ive seen, I think Mr S ought reasonably to 
have been aware that to make payments towards his accounts it was necessary to do so by 
contacting the debit collection agent which held them. Its records dont show that Mr S did 
that, other than the occasion mentioned above during which he declined to make payment.
Given all of the above, Im not satisfied that Mr S was prevented from making any payments, 
at the very least, up until the point when the accounts were defaulted. It follows that as Mr S 
didnt make any payments towards the debts, it was reasonable for Telefonica to report that 
information on Mr Ss credit file, as well as subsequently record defaults. Im also satisfied 
that both accounts were defaulted within around a month of each other, and both around six 
months from the date the last payments were made, which I think is reasonable, given the 
circumstances.
Overall, I remain of the view that Telefonica treated Mr S fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman