DRN-2518390
The complaint
Miss O complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked her account and asked her to send 
it photos of three of her top up cards with other banks in order to have the block lifted.
To put things right, Miss O wants Revolut to apologise and explain why it asked her to send 
the photos.
What happened
On 15 November 2019, Revolut blocked Miss Os account while it carried out a security 
review. It asked Miss O to confirm what she used the account for, and to send in photos of 
three top up cards Miss O had with businesses other than Revolut. 
Revolut gave Miss O the last 4 digits of the cards it wanted to see, and said Miss O should 
cover the card so the last 4 digits and her name were visible. When Miss O asked Revolut 
why it wanted the photos, it said it was part of its standard compliance and security 
processes. It said it couldnt unblock the account without them.
Miss O complained saying she wouldnt send the photos unless Revolut would explain why it 
wanted them. Revolut issued a final response letter on 22 November 2019. It said Miss Os 
account was under review and that it couldnt disclose any details regarding the review, or 
explain its concern for security reasons. It then closed Miss Os account and returned the 
account balance to source.
Miss O brought her complaint to our service. She was only complaining about Revolut 
asking to see photos of her cards, and not its decision to block and close her account, or its 
decision to revert the account balance to its original source.
Our investigator said she couldnt see anything to suggest Revolut had strayed from its 
normal banking procedures. And that Revolut was entitled to block Miss Os account in the 
manner it did. Miss O rejected the outcome, saying it was unacceptable for Revolut to ask 
for photos of her cards. So, she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial institutions in the UK are strictly regulated and have to comply with various rules 
and regulations. In order to comply with those regulations, it is sometimes necessary for a 
financial business to block a customers account and carry out a review. It will then have to 
take various steps to satisfy itself, before it can release the block.
As part of the checks that have to be carried out, the financial business will often ask its 
customer to provide information that helps the business understand more about the 
customers use of the account. The information a financial business will ask for varies from 
case to case and most investigations are treated on an individual basis. So, a business 
might ask for certain information for one investigation that it does not ask for on the next. So, 
the fact that Miss O hasnt been asked to provide photos of other cards before, doesnt mean 
Revolut wasnt entitled to make the request on this occasion.
Ive looked at the evidence Revolut has provided to demonstrate why it blocked Miss Os 
account and why it asked her to send in the photos. Having done so, Im satisfied that it was 
entitled to do so and that it didnt treat Miss O unfairly or act beyond its standard procedures. 
Revolut was simply complying with its legal and regulatory obligations.
Revolut isnt obliged to explain to Miss O why it asked for the photos, so I cant say its done 
anything wrong by declining to provide a detailed explanation. And I note that it did in fact 
explain that its request was born out of its security procedures, and that it couldnt remove 
the block without seeing the information it had asked for.
Ive thought about what Miss O has said, and I understand why she is frustrated that Revolut 
wouldnt tell her more about why it wanted to see the cards. But given what Ive said above, I 
can see no basis on which I might make an award in favour of Miss O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman