DRN-3137245
Complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his overdraft charged when it ought to have realised that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Mr Gs overdraft had become unsustainable for him in March 2015 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Gs overdraft from this point. 
HSBC didnt agree with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Gs overdraft 
in March 2015. 
By this point, HSBC would have seen that Mr G had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Gs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. And its also clear Mr G had started turning to high cost 
lending in an effort to make ends meet. So I think that by March 2015, HSBC should have 
realised that Mr G was struggling, stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Mr G with forbearance rather than adding even more fees and charges on the 
overdraft. 
As HSBC didnt react to Mr Gs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr G paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of HSBC failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So HSBC needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from March 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the accounts from March 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Gs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman