DRN-4279241
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare in 
December 2008. She also says that the credit agreements she entered into with BPF were 
unenforceable. Mrs O acquired the timeshare points along with Mr I, but the loan was in her 
name alone so I will refer to her as the purchaser.
What happened
Mrs O bought membership of a timeshare (the Club) from a third party I will call C on 11 
December 2008. She had previously bought a trial membership in August 2008 and 
upgraded this at a net cost of £10,699. She took out a loan with BPF for £13,789 to cover 
the outstanding balance from an earlier loan. The second loan was repaid in March 2019.
In June 2021, using a professional representative (PR) Mrs O made claims under s.75 and 
140A of the CCA for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship.
The reasons for the claims under s. 75 and s.140 were as follows:
A. The Timeshare sold by The Resort is Null and Void as it is not a timeshare as defined by 
the EU Directive. Due to The Resorts agreement being Null and Void, the Banks loan 
agreement creates an unfair relationship, under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
between the Bank and our Client. The Banks loan agreement is therefore Null and Void.
B. The misrepresentations made by The Resort at the time of sale of The Timeshare has 
caused financial detriment to our Client. Our Client therefore has a claim against the Bank 
for the breaches by the Resort due to the misrepresentations under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void.
C. The Bank did not carry out an affordability assessment on the Clients ability to pay the 
Banks loan instalment in accordance with FCA regulations Cone 5.2.2 R (1) and Conc 
5.3.1G(4). As a result, the Banks loan agreement is Null and Void. Similarly, Bank did not 
ask the client how will she be able to pay the maintenance fees.
I understand that BPF didnt issue a substantive response and a complaint was brought to 
this service in September 2021. PR submitted a complaint form and a copy of the Letter of 
Claim along with numerous documents. Much of this restated what had been put in the 
claim.
The complaint was passed to an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, concluded that Mrs Os claim under s. 75 was out of time under the LA.
On the matter of s.140A she didnt consider there was evidence of misrepresentation. She 
also addressed the claim on an unfair relationship and said that she didnt think:
The contractual terms were unlikely to be operated unfairly against Mrs O.
There were any aspects of the relationship between Mrs O and the business that 
were so unclear that she agreed to the purchase without knowing something that was 
important to that decision.
The business conduct fell so short of the standard that could have been reasonably 
expected that it made the relationship unfair.
She added that she didnt think the Spanish court judgement applied given the contract was 
governed by English law. Nor did she think the references to the EU Directive led to the 
conclusion reached by PR that the agreement was null and void.
Nor did she think that the payment of commission amounted to a breach of duty by BPF. 
Finally, she said no evidence had been provided to show the loan had been unaffordable.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment. Much of what it had to say repeated what 
the Letters of Claim and Complaint said. So, I wont repeat those elements. But, in summary, 
it did say the following in relation to the limitation period that the investigator thought was 
relevant to her outcome:
Mrs Os relationship with the Bank ended on 11 March 2019. The decision in Smith v RBS 
[2021] EWCA Civ 1832 makes clear that once the debt has been repaid, that is the point of 
time that limitation runs from.
Section 14A of the LA gives Mrs O more time to make her claims because BPF ought to 
have known about European Directive 94/47/EC before providing Mrs O with the finance to 
make the purchases in question. In PRs view, therefore, BPF owed Mrs O a duty of care 
and shouldnt have provided her with finance to purchase the timeshare that was in breach 
of the relevant regulations. It set out its interpretations of s. 14 as follows:
S.14 LA Interpretation
1. CLC breached both Timeshare Regulations  1992 Act  by selling our Clients the Points 
timeshare as described above
2. As a result of breaches of the law, the Bank as principal of its agent  CLC  is 
responsible for the actions of its agent.
3. These breaches of the law has resulted in the Bank being negligent as the Bank had a 
duty of care to the Client to ensure all laws were being complied with.
4. The Bank cannot claim ignorance of CLCs actions as a defence as the Bank and the CLC 
agreement were linked agreements so the Bank had a duty of care to ensure all laws were 
being complied with.
5. As highlighted in the Barclays Partner Finance v FCA case (Appendix 7), the Bank is 
responsible for the actions of its agent.
6. S14 extends the time the client has to make a claim to the Bank to 3 years from the date 
of knowledge of when the Client became aware of these breaches  when the Client 
contacted [PR]
7. The Clients claim is therefore not time barred
I issued a provisional decision as follows:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont currently think 
this complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs O) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mrs O made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would 
have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mrs O had six years from the date on which the causes of action 
accrued to make her s. 75 claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mrs O entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that she entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of 
C.
And as the finance from BPF in 2008 was used to help pay for the purchases, it was when 
she entered into the credit agreements that she suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in December 2008  which means 
that, at the latest, she had six years from when she entered into the relevant credit 
agreements to make her claims. But as she didnt do that until September 2021, and as I 
cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, 
her claims are likely to have been too late. And for that reason, I think BPF has a defence to 
them under the LA.
Grounds to Extend Time
S. 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in 
which] facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that 
this provision gives Mrs O more time to make her claims. In its view, BPF acted negligently 
when it paid the C what remained of the purchase price in 2008 because it owed Mrs O a 
duty of care to ensure that the 1992 Act was complied with by C.
The PR has suggested that both the s.140A and s.75 claims were made in time because 
s.14A of the LA. However, as I will discuss below the claim under s.140A was made in time 
without the need to rely on s.14A.
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, s. 75 of the CCA cant find a claim in tort against 
the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But on my 
reading of this complaint, Mrs Os allegations of misrepresentation dont set out in any detail 
the representations that are said to have been made by C  let alone assert, with that detail 
in mind, that C owed her a relevant duty of care when making such representations. So, to 
the extent that there were s. 75 claims for misrepresentation, s. 14A of the LA doesnt help 
Mrs Os cause.
Nor does the case of Smith v RBS assist Mrs O since it addresses claims under s.140A and 
not s.75.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs O and BPF 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years, and as I understand it the loan 
was repaid in 2019 and the claim was made in September 2021 and it was made in time.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs O could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against BPF anyway.
Mrs Os alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mrs O could afford to repay 
what she was borrowing.
PR seems to suggest that, because C was BPFs statutory agent under s. 56 of the CCA, 
BPF owed Mrs O a duty of care to ensure that C complied with the 1992 Act. And PR says 
that BPF breached that duty by failing to carry out  before granting Mrs O credit and paying 
C  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the product purchased by Mrs O wasnt sold 
by C in breach of the 1992 Act.
However, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs lengthy submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these 
tests or relevant authorities that the lender owed the debtor and the purchaser of a 
timeshare a duty of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by C in 
breach of a relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
PR also seems to suggest that Mrs O had a cause in negligence against BPF because it 
breached the 1992 Act directly by making payments to C during Mrs Os withdrawal period. 
But, in my view, it wasnt possible for BPF to breach the 1992 Act.
And on my reading of the legislation, it was only C  or its agent  who could breach it. After 
all, it was only a timeshare provider or its agent who could enter into a timeshare agreement 
in the course of business.As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mrs Os claims were likely to have 
succeeded.
Commission
I know PR says that Mrs O has concerns about undisclosed commission. But had such a 
payment been made to C by BPF, I havent seen anything to suggest BPF would have 
breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Whats more, as I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like the supplier 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%.
So, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely that the levels of 
commission normally paid in situations like the one in question were high enough to put BPF 
on notice that not disclosing commission to Mrs O risked making the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
The Purchase Agreement
PRs argument that the purchase agreement was null and void was framed as giving rise to 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s. 140A.
However, providing credit or otherwise being a creditor under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services Compulsory 
Jurisdiction in December 2008. As the PRs argument here is to suggest that the credit 
agreement couldnt and shouldnt have been enforced by BPF because the associated 
purchase agreements were unenforceable, Ive considered the argument separately to Mrs 
Os s. 140A claims.
Its possible that the purchase agreements entered into by Mrs O in December 2008 failed to 
comply with the information requirements in the 1992 Act. But nowhere in that Act (nor the 
European Directive 94/47/EC) can I see that a purchase agreement could be rescinded by a 
consumer if the information in question wasnt provided. And thats both a relevant and 
important consideration here as, generally speaking, a purchase agreement isnt rescindable 
simply because it  or part of it  was or became unenforceable.
The legal basis on which PR makes its argument here isnt entirely clear as it hasnt drawn 
my attention to any general points of law or authorities that deal with the situation in which a 
supply contract was/is unenforceable against the consumer.
I recognise that it was held by the Supreme Court in Durkin v DSG Retail [2014] UKSC 21 
(Durkin) that, if a debtor rescinds a supply contract that they have the right to rescind, they 
can also rescind a credit agreement whose purpose had been to finance the debtors entry 
into that supply contract.
The legal mechanism by which this occurs is an implied term that deems the credit 
agreement contingent on the survival of the supply contract.
But, in the absence of any case law, I dont think the decision in Durkin can be said to have 
any application in a situation in which a supply contract was/is unenforceable against the 
consumer. An unenforceable purchase agreement under the 1992 Act is very different from 
one that the consumer is entitled to rescind. And even when the unenforceability of a 
purchase agreement is invoked by a consumer to support a CCA claim (as here), Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that it equates to terminating the contract, let alone unwinding it 
from the start.So, the fact that the purchase agreement entered into by Mrs O might have been (and still 
might be) unenforceable against her has very different legal consequences to those which 
flow from the rescission of a supply contract. Any attempt to apply Durkin here would require 
a considerable extension of its reasoning by the courts. And for that reason and those 
above, Im not currently persuaded that this is a reason to uphold this complaint.
As for the judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court that PR says is relevant, I dont think it 
helps Mrs Os cause either. My understanding is that agreements with C were to be 
construed in accordance with English law.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the purchase agreement entered into at the time of the 
purchase was any different. So, I cant see how the judgment of a Spanish court can be 
applied directly to the question as to whether the relevant purchase agreement was/is 
voidable under English law. And for that reason, I dont currently think there are any 
implications on the credit agreement that justify upholding this complaint.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mrs O suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to her, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs O 
before also concluding that she lost out as a result. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its 
circumstances.
PR submitted a detailed response which I will summarise briefly. It addressed the s.140A 
claim and the linked 1992 Timeshare Regulations with particular reference to a recent 
judicial review judgement.
The judicial review decision concerned the 2010 Timeshare Regulations, but PR said that in 
the relevant areas the two were the same or similar.
It said C had failed to disclose necessary information as required by the Timeshare 
Regulations which meant the withdrawal period was extended to three months and 10 days. 
The payment by BPF before the end of that withdrawal period was material a breach.
The breaches by C were also the responsibility of the bank since s.56 states that any 
antecedent negotiations by C were deemed to have been done by of BPF.
It sought to draw out similarities between this complaint and those cases decided by the 
judicial review again referencing the material breach made when payment was made before 
the withdrawal period was complete.
It said the decision also supported its view that s.140A gave protection to Mrs O and so one 
had to consider there had been an unfair relationship. This stemmed from breaches of the 
Timeshare Regulations.
It did not accept my view that as Mrs Os loss was financial that this did not mean that it was 
recoverable in a claim of negligence. It argued that the link between C and BPF which 
existed due to s.11, s.12, s.56 and s.140A CCA meant the loss wasnt purely financial since 
it was property related.
It said there had been a misunderstanding and that it hadnt argued that BPF owed a duty of 
care to ensure C complied with the Timeshare Regulations. It said it was making the point which it has made in several different guises that s.56 creates a statutory agency which 
makes BPF responsible for any breaches by C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to address what PR has said about the findings of the High Court 
following the recent judicial review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach 
PR thinks it should take to this complaint, which in simple terms is that I should take an 
identical approach.
As I set out in my provisional decision I consider that Mrs Os claims under s.75 and s.140A 
were made out of time and as the question of limitation wasnt part of the judicial review it 
isnt directly relevant to this complaint. The High Court did affirm that my fellow 
ombudsmans findings on s.56 CCA and the extent to which it creates a statutory agency 
relationship between a creditor and a supplier when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place  such that any negotiations between Mrs O and C before her purchase 
are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent of BPF. PR argued this complaint 
should be treated in the same way, but I do not agree.
The complaints at the centre of the judicial review were concerned with a particular type of 
asset backed timeshare known as a fractional ownership timeshare. Such timeshares 
offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly associated with 
timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a share in the 
ownership of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay in that 
property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement the property is usually set to be 
sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed on a pro rata 
basis among the fractional owners.
However, that is not the type of timeshare Mrs O bought and I do not consider that it follows 
that the same decision should be reached in this complaint as in those addressed by the 
judicial review.
While fractional and non-fractional timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact 
that the non-fractional timeshares werent designed with an investment element front and 
centre is an important distinction to consider when determining what a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint might look like.
I accept that some non-fractional timeshares may share a number of contractual terms that 
were subject of the judicial review and may fall foul of the relevant law on unfair contract 
terms. However, an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA does not necessarily stop 
at a regulatory breach. Its often necessary to then assess the impact of that breach on the 
consumer. That much is clear from case law and  including the latest judicial review.
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits which is what I will do 
in this case.
Extension of the Time Limit
PR argues that C failed to provide the required information under the Timeshare Act 1992, 
as amended by the 1994 EU Directive (94/47/EC). Section 1A Obligations to provide 
information of the Timeshares Act 1992 says:(1) A person who proposes in the course of a business to enter into a timeshare agreement 
to which this Act applies as offeror (an operator) must provide any person who requests 
information on the proposed accommodation with a document complying with subsection (2) 
below.
(2) The document shall provide  (a) a general description of the proposed accommodation, 
(b) information (which may be brief) on the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) to (g) and (i) 
of Schedule 1 to this Act [], and (c) information on how further information may be 
obtained.
Sub-section (7) goes on to say: In this section the proposed accommodation means  (a) 
The accommodation which is the subject of the proposed agreement, or (b) The 
accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of the proposed 
agreement, as the case may be.
Section 1C Obligatory terms of timeshare agreement says: (1) A person must not in the 
course of a business enter into a timeshare agreement to which this Act applies as offeror 
unless the agreement includes, as terms set out in it, the information referred to in Schedule 
1 to this Act.
Schedule 1 sets out a Minimum list of items to be included in a timeshare agreement to 
which section 1C applies. This list includes the following, which PR argues were not 
specified in the timeshare agreement:
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate description of 
that accommodation and its location.
(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement may be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration;
Firstly, based on the extracts above and my wider reading of the Act, the 1992 Act makes 
provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it 
was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me 
think selling those types of timeshares was prohibited. So, I dont think all timeshare 
agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act in 
the way PR argues. I think setting out the resorts Mrs O could use (in other words, the pool 
of accommodation) was sufficient for the purposes of the regulations. 
So, I am not persuaded R failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 1992 requirements on this 
point.
This means I also dont think the longer withdrawal period applies, or that C or BPF 
breached the Timeshare Act 1992 by taking advance payments within the withdrawal period.
In any event, there is nothing in the Timeshare Act 1992 that means the timeshare 
agreement would be unenforceable, even if the minimum standard information requirements 
or other requirements under the Timeshare Act were not complied with. Given I still do not 
agree that C breached the Timeshare Act 1992 in the way PR has argued, I also still dont 
think Mrs O had a claim for negligence against either C or BPF on this basis. It follows that I 
also still disagree that section 14A of the LA should apply to extend the applicable time limits 
for Mrs Os claims under the CCA.
S. 140 A
PR has argued that breaches in the 1992 Regulations made the relationship unfair and so it should be unwound. However, I think PR is conflating and confusing the part played by s.56 
CCA in an assessment of unfairness under s.140A with limitation and whether Mrs Os 
claims were made in time under the LA.
Mrs Os claims under s.140A werent made under a provision of the CCA intended to 
reproduce, against a creditor, the relevant damages claim which a complainant enjoys 
against a supplier (like s.75 does). However, claims under s.140A are only concerned with 
whether there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. And while Cs alleged breaches of 
the 1992 Regulations (and alleged negligence) would undoubtedly be relevant to an 
assessment of unfairness because of the statutory relationship created by s.56 between C 
and BPF, PR hasnt pointed me to any relevant authorities to demonstrate that a claim under 
s.140A that happens to involve allegations of negligence by a timeshare provider changes 
that claim, for the purpose of limitation, from an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment governed by s.9 of the LA, to a claim for negligence governed by 
s.14A.
As such I am not persuaded that s.14A gave Mrs O more time to make her s.140A claims.
I would add that I appreciate PRs attempt to turn a financial loss into a property loss simply 
because there was accommodation which Mrs O could use as part of her purchase. 
However, she acquired membership of a club, not of a property and her loss, if any, was 
financial.  
In conclusion I remain unpersuaded that this complaint should be upheld or that BPF should 
respond differently to the claim made by Mrs O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman