DRN-3774606
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs decision to turn down a claim made under his 
Property Owners policy.
All references to Covea include its appointed agents.
Mr D is being represented in this complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to him directly.
What happened
Mr D discovered evidence of malicious damage at a property he rents out and notified 
Covea of the claim. Covea appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the damage.
Covea considered the claim but turned it down as it said there wasnt sufficient evidence that 
Mr D had verified his tenants references prior to them renting the property, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. Covea said it would reconsider its position should the required 
evidence come to light.
Mr D disagreed and complained to Covea. He said his lettings agent had verified the tenant 
and so the claim should succeed. He also wanted to claim for the loss of rent during the 
period the property was inhabitable, as hed been unable to pay for the property to be 
renovated.
Covea maintained its position to turn down the claim, so Mr D referred the matter to our 
service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and recommended it not be upheld. They said that 
whilst the policy didnt define what level of verification was needed, based on the evidence 
provided by Mr D, it was difficult to ascertain how the tenants references were verified. They 
said that if Mr D had this information, or could obtain it from his lettings agent, then this 
evidence should be submitted for reconsideration.
In response to our investigator, Mr D provided further evidence, including information from 
his lettings agent about how the references were verified. Our investigator passed this 
evidence to Covea, but it maintained its position to turn down the claim. Covea said the 
evidence provided was dated after the event and wasnt sufficient to show Mr D carried out 
checks on the references.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. They said that 
Mr Ds additional evidence provided an explanation of the events that happened. So, they 
were satisfied Mr D had carried out verification checks in line with the policy terms.
Our investigator therefore recommended Covea should pay the malicious damage claim 
subject to the policy limits and consider Mr Ds loss of rent claim.
Mr D accepted our investigators findings. As the matter remained unresolved, the complaint 
has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Covea has at this late stage asked for a further review of the evidence provided by   
Mr D. But this same evidence was provided to it some months ago. Covea has already said 
this evidence didnt change its mind about the claim, and I think its been provided with 
reasonable opportunities to consider its position. So, to resolve the complaint and prevent 
further delays Ive decided to proceed and issue my decision.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and 
Ill explain why below.
Mr Ds policy covers him for Malicious Damage by Residential Tenants. The key part of the 
terms here state:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability under this Extension that:
(a)You or authorised persons acting on Your behalf or Your managing agents shall in 
each instance obtain and retain written and verified references for all residential 
tenants or prospective residential tenants
(b)You must produce such written references at Our request in the event of a claim 
under this Extension.
Our liability will not exceed £5,000 any one occurrence
The policy doesnt define exactly how the references must be written, recorded, or verified. 
And I can see that Covea has attempted to clarify this in an email to its own loss adjuster 
saying, If there is no definition in the policy wording then we would look to the dictionary for 
one. Looking online at tenants references it advises that the referee should be contacted by 
phone to confirm they are the one on the letter and the information provided is correct  i.e. 
verifying it.
Coveas main reasons for turning down the claim appear to be linked to a failure of Coveas 
loss adjuster to verify the same information for themselves, some years after the event took 
place. In the circumstances, Im not persuade that this produces a fair or reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
I say this because Mr Ds evidence from his lettings agent confirms that his contact details 
have remained the same. And theyve confirmed that theyve spoken to Mr Ds broker and 
representative in relation to the claim. The lettings agent has also provided a further signed statement alongside the two written 
references which explains how they verified each reference for Mr Ds tenant.
Having considered this statement, Im persuaded that on balance it shows that reasonable 
attempts were made to obtain written and verify references. I say this because the lettings 
agent says they spoke directly to both referees and obtained further evidence from other 
lettings agents to validate the referees own personal information.
Covea hasnt challenged the material facts of this evidence, rather it has sought to rely on 
the fact that the evidence was provided after the event to maintain its position. But given its 
own policy wording isnt explicit about how the references should be verified, I find that a 
signed and dated statement from the lettings agent who verified the references is sufficient 
for the claim to succeed. 
Ive seen nothing firm to refute the material facts as presented by the lettings agent, and Im 
not persuaded that Coveas own attempts to verify the same information now are sufficient to 
say it wasnt done at the time. So, I find Covea should settle Mr Ds claim up to the limit of its 
liability under the policy extension.
Mr D says hes also lost out on rent as hes been unable to refurbish his property or rent it 
out. As I find his claim for malicious damage should succeed, it follows that Covea must 
consider his loss of rent claim in the circumstances, subject to the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. If Mr D is unhappy with how Covea considers his loss of rent claim, then that 
would need to be dealt with as a separate matter outside of my decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr D, Covea must:
- Settle his claim for malicious damage up to the maximum policy limit of £5,000.
- Pay Mr D 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date the claim was made, to 
the date of settlement*
- Consider Mr Ds loss of rent claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
*If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman