DRN-2503625
The complaint
This is a complaint that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined to pay Ms Ss travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Ms S had Great Lakes single trip travel insurance. Ms S bought the insurance on 22 May 
2020 whilst she was travelling in Europe. She bought it through a comparison website. Great 
Lakes is the underwriter and so is responsible for assessing and paying any claims. 
The insurance covered the period 6 June to 9 June 2020. During this period Ms S intended 
to travel back to the UK, to attend to sick relatives. However, her flight booked for 9 June 
was cancelled by the travel operator and didnt take place until 15 June. The cancellation 
was for reasons related to the Covid pandemic. Ms S says she had to pay for extra 
accommodation because of the delay. 
Ms S says Great Lakes should pay her £150 under the travel delay part of the policy. But 
Great Lakes has declined the claim, saying that the pandemic was a known event and so 
excluded under the policy. It said there were several warnings about this on the comparison 
website after 12 May 2020. It says that, before that date for about a month, no travel 
insurance was sold through the website whilst the website operators consulted with insurers 
on how Covid-related claims would be handled.  
Our investigator looked at the insurance policy, and the circumstances of the claim, and 
thought that Great Lakes decision was reasonable. Ms S disagreed. 
Because there is no agreement, the matter has been come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive taken 
these rules and guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ss complaint. Ive also looked carefully at what Ms Ss policy says 
it covers. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy says:
General exclusions applying to your policy
Your policy does not cover you for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from any 
of the following
 Any insurance arranged in circumstances where a claim might reasonably be 
anticipated.
I can also see that the Insurance Product Information Document, sent to Ms S, says:
What is not insured?
Circumstances you were aware of before your policy was issued or journey was 
booked (whichever is the later) that might result in a claim.
Ms S says that the exclusion on which Great Lakes is relying is unclear. She cites the legal 
principle that an unclear term should be interpreted in her favour, as Great Lakes wrote the 
wording. But, although that principle is correct, I dont agree that it is relevant here. In my 
view the term is clear. The question is whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to apply 
it to Ms Ss claim.
Is it reasonable to apply the exclusion?
In looking at what is reasonable, Ive taken into account Ms Ss knowledge about the 
likelihood of her trip being affected by Covid. First, I think its likely Ms S would have 
foreseen a high chance that her journey back to the UK would be disrupted. I dont know 
why she decided to take this insurance at the point she did; or why, it seems, she hadnt 
taken insurance to cover the whole of her trip to Europe. But, by 22 May 2020 there was 
widespread uncertainty and disruption as the pandemic developed. And, secondly, the 
insurer has demonstrated that prominent warnings were put on the comparison website 
warning that Covid might mean claims wouldnt be covered. I think its very likely that Ms S 
would have seen these warnings, even if she doesnt remember it now. 
Ive looked at the wording of those warnings. I can see that they were written on the 
assumption that the customer was travelling from the UK, whereas Ms S was travelling to 
the UK from Europe  and she was clear about this in her application for insurance. But I do 
think the warnings generally would have alerted Ms S to the danger that she might not be 
covered. And the warning did contain a more general statement which, in my view, was 
enough to alert Ms S:
The World Health Organisation has classed coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic. 
This means insurers treat it as a known event, so they will exclude it from most 
cover.
Ms S said that the insurer should prove that these warnings were given, because she didnt 
remember seeing them. So I asked the insurer to provide proof. It sent me screen shots of 
the different warnings given. Im satisfied the warnings were given, and in a way that was 
prominent. 
Ms S has said that, equal to her, the insurer knew that the pandemic was a risk, and yet sold 
her the insurance. But the insurer was selling travel insurance to cover many more things 
than the risk the flight would be cancelled due to the pandemic  and in doing so, it was 
making it clear that cancellations due to the pandemic were unlikely to be covered. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has been reasonable in declining to pay Ms Ss 
claim. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman