DRN-4498381
The complaint
Ms E complains about the rate of interest being applied to the credit card account she holds 
with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. Shes also unhappy with the level of 
support they provided when she raised her concerns about this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2023. In this, I explained that I couldnt 
agree Clydesdale were charging Ms E the incorrect APR for her credit card. However, I did 
think a £50 award was fair to reflect some of the difficulties she experienced when trying to 
send them her completed income and expenditure. I gave bother parties until 
4 December 2023 to send me any further comments and/or evidence for me to consider.
Clydesdale didnt respond to my provisional decision, and Ms E disagreed with it. She felt 
I hadnt fairly or appropriately taken relevant regulations into account; nor did she didnt think 
the £50 award went far enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced.
Ive considered Ms Es comments alongside all the information weve been provided, but Ive 
not been persuaded to change my mind. As such, my decision remains the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Ms Es complaint  albeit not as she hoped, for 
these reasons:
When Ms E opened her credit card account, she had a 0% promotional rate for 
transfers. This was due to end in mid-October 2021. And when she opened the 
account, Ms E was told what her APR would be when the promotional rate ended. In 
mid-October, Ms E still had an outstanding balance and the evidence weve been 
provided shows Ms E was charged the APR she was told about when opening the 
account.  If Ms E wasnt happy with this APR, she could have ended her agreement 
with Clydesdale before using the card. As this didnt happen, I cant agree that 
Clydesdale treated her unfairly by charging the agreed APR once the promotional 
rate ended. Ms Es statements also told her when the promotional rate was due to 
end, ahead of time. So, Im persuaded she had access to information that ought to 
have made a reasonable customer aware of the interest rate that was applicable to 
their account.
Ive noted Ms E explained that the cost living crisis has impacted her ability to make 
repayments towards her outstanding balance. While I dont agree that means 
Clydesdale were obligated to reduce her APR, they were expected to offer her 
support. So, Ive considered whether they did what Id expect in the circumstances.
When Ms E raised her complaint, Clydesdale issued their final response in mid-
March 2023. This explained they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by charging 
interest on her outstanding balance because her promotional rate had ended. 
However, Clydesdale explained they would waive her interest for the month of March 
to give Ms E the opportunity to speak with them about any support she needed. 
I consider this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Ms E 
didnt receive Clydesdale final response that explained this until two months later, so 
I can understand why she would have felt frustrated. However, Im satisfied the final 
response was sent in time, and I cant fairly hold Clydesdale responsible for any 
problems with the post.
Ms E was frustrated after not receiving a response to her complaint. So, she called 
Clydesdale in mid-May 2023, and Ive listened to the two calls that took place on that 
day. The first adviser explained what was detailed in the final response letter and 
offered to go through Ms Es income and expenditure so that they could assess what 
support could be provided. Ms E had an appointment to go to and didnt have the 
time to complete this over the phone, so it was agreed a form would be sent to her to 
complete. When Ms E didnt receive the form, she called back (on the same day) 
asking for it to be sent again. The second adviser offered to take the information 
about Ms Es income and expenditure over the phone. Ms E declined his offer, so the 
advisor agreed to send a form to her. The second adviser also attempted to ask 
further questions about Ms Es account to ensure he understood her circumstances 
and what support she might need, but Ms E explained she didnt want to answer his 
questions and would just complete form.
Given everything weve been provided, its clear Ms E was keen to get an agreement 
in place and work with Clydesdale when it came to managing her account. She was 
trying to be proactive, so I can understand why she would have felt frustrated when 
she wasnt receiving correspondence from them. However, having listened to the 
calls, I consider the advisers she spoke to were professional. The questions they 
asked persuade me they were equally as keen to see what support was available as 
they were trying to take things as far as they possibly could over the phone. Its just 
unfortunate that couldnt happen due to Ms Es schedule. But given the time it can 
take to complete an income and expenditure over the phone, I dont consider thats 
unusual  so it wasnt unreasonable that Ms E asked to complete a form instead.
Ms E said she returned the income and expenditure form four days after calling 
Clydesdale. However, Clydesdale say they didnt receive the form and their systems 
dont show that anything was received. Given Ms Es pattern of behaviour throughout 
this complaint, I consider its most likely that she completed the form when she said 
she did. So, it appears something went wrong and prevented Clydesdale from 
receiving it. But that is why Ms E didnt hear back from them after sending her 
completed form.
Ive seen evidence that Ms E repaid her outstanding balance in September 2023. 
This means there is nothing further Clydesdale needs to do in respect of the issues 
regarding interest. However, I do think Clydesdale needs to do something to 
recognise the problems Ms E experienced receiving the income and expenditure 
form sent by the first adviser she spoke to in May 2023. I also think something needs to be done to recognise the impact of not receiving a response after completing the 
income and expenditure form. Thats because, in the same way I dont hold 
Clydesdale at fault for issues in Ms E receiving their final response letter, I dont 
consider its fair that she be held at fault for any issues that may have prevented 
Clydesdale receiving her income and expenditure form that was completed online. I 
consider an award of £50 is appropriate to recognise the inconvenience Ms E 
experienced because of these issues.
I dont dispute Ms E has found this situation stressful and worrying. However, when 
deciding what I consider to be a fair outcome Ive had to take all circumstances into 
account. Ultimately, Clydesdale couldnt offer further support until they received 
Ms Es completed income and expenditure. And while I accept it wasnt her fault it 
wasnt received, there is only so much Clydesdale could do if they didnt know it had 
been completed. Im also mindful of the fact that at the end of May 2023 (10 days 
after her call with the second adviser), Ms E told our service she was no longer going 
to attempt to resolve things directly with Clydesdale given the time shed been 
waiting. And given her previous experiences, I can understand why she may have felt 
that way, to some extent. However, if she then took steps to reduce - and 
subsequently repay her outstanding balance without further attempts to talk to 
Clydesdale (as our Investigator encouraged her to do in early June 2023), I cannot 
fairly hold them solely responsible for the situation Ms E now finds herself in. While 
Ms E may not think this is the case, I have taken the perspectives of both parties into 
account before reaching my decision. That is why I maintain the £50 award is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms E hoped for, but for the reasons detailed above, Im 
upholding this complaint  in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Es complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money
To put things right, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Ms E £50 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience their mistakes caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman