DRN-3428470
The complaint
Mr S complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to Astrenska, I include engineers and others insofar as I hold Astrenska
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr S had a property that he let to a tenant. The property had a gas central heating boiler.
For the year from late July 2020, Mr S had an insurance policy that covered repairs and an
annual service of the boiler at the property. Astrenska was the insurance company
responsible for dealing with claims.
On 9 July 2021 (a Friday), Astrenska did the annual service. Unfortunately, it found the boiler 
flue was leaking. So Astrenska disconnected the gas supply pipe to the boiler. And the boiler 
wasnt providing hot water for the tenant or her children.
On 13 July 2021 (Tuesday), Mr S contacted Astrenska and the tenant and found out what
had happened. Astrenska said the policy didnt cover flue repairs. Mr S complained to
Astrenska about lack of communication.
On about 16 July 2021 (Friday), Mr Ss gas engineer fixed the flue. But that engineer
couldnt find the connecting pipe.
On 17 July 2021 (Saturday), Mr S contacted Astrenska again by phone and email. He asked
about the pipe.
On 19 July 2021 (Monday), Astrenska replied that the flue wasnt covered. But it didnt reply
about the connecting pipe.
On 20 July 2021 (Tuesday), Mr S contacted Astrenska again. It sent a photo showing where
the pipe had been left inside the boiler casing.
On 21 July 2021 (Wednesday), Mr Ss engineer re-started the boiler.
By a final response dated 17 August 2021, Astrenska offered £50.00 compensation for
delays in communication. Mr S brought his complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
£50.00 offered was appropriate for the inconvenience and stress Mr S experienced.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S  
and to Astrenska on 14 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find it unreasonable that Astrenska left the connecting pipe inside the boiler 
casing. As the engineer went to the trouble of taking a photograph showing that, I 
found it more likely than not that the engineer also told or showed the tenant where 
the pipe was.
Astrenska was responsible for causing Mr S some extra distress and
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. Weighing all this up, I was satisfied 
that Astrenskas offer of £50.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for this.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Astrenska, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr S 
(insofar as it hasnt already paid him ) £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S asked for a review of the provisional decision. He has re-sent us an email from his 
engineer dated 2 August 2021 (which he had sent us when he first brought his complaint to 
us in mid-August 2021).
Astrenska hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP).
Im reviewing a complaint by Mr S, rather than by his tenant.
The policy terms included the following:
You must make sure that an adult is present while the approved contractor services
your boiler, controls and system. If an adult is not there, your boiler, controls and
system will not be serviced and you will have to make a new appointment. If this
happens, you will have to pay the full cost of this new appointment.
You may give permission to your tenant, managing agent or other third party to
arrange an engineer appointment on your behalf.
From what hes said, Mr S wasnt at the property for the boiler service. Keeping in mind the
policy term quoted above, I find that the tenant was there on behalf of Mr S.
Astrenska found a leaking flue but wasnt responsible for fixing the flue. So Astrenska left a
warning notice and disconnected the boiler.
I dont find it unreasonable that Astrenska left the connecting pipe inside the boiler casing.
As the engineer went to the trouble of taking a photograph showing that, I find it more likely
than not that the engineer also told or showed the tenant where the pipe was.
Astrenska has said it shouldve followed up on Monday 12 July 2021. But I think the tenant
couldve let Mr S know sooner what had happened. So I find Astrenska only partly responsible for some of the time taken to let Mr S know that 
he needed to instruct an independent engineer to fix the flue.
Astrenska wasnt responsible for getting the flue fixed. So I dont hold Astrenska responsible
for the time taken by Mr S from when he found out the situation on 13 July 2021 until his
engineer fixed the flue on about 16 July 2021.
I accept that Mr Ss engineer couldnt test the boiler without the pipe connecting the gas
supply. And he asked Mr S and the tenant for information about the whereabouts of the pipe.
But the tenant may simply have forgotten about the pipe.
Mr S asked Astrenska about the connecting pipe. And Astrenska shouldve responded
sooner. In particular, it couldve sent the photograph a day or two more quickly than it did. 
But Astrenska had left the pipe in a reasonable place. And I find it likely that Mr S, his tenant
and his engineer could also have done more to find the pipe and get the boiler working again
sooner.
I conclude that Astrenska was responsible for some shortcomings in its communication. Ive
thought about the effect of this on Mr S.
But Ive found Astrenska only partly responsible for some of the time taken to get the boiler
working again.
I havent seen enough evidence to show what Mr Ss engineer charged for his final visit. His 
report doesnt show that.
I find it likely that it was the tenant who bore the brunt of the inconvenience. But I find it likely
that Mr S had to deal with difficult conversations with the tenant.
So I conclude that Astrenska was responsible for causing Mr S some extra distress and
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him.
Putting things right
Weighing all this up, Im satisfied that Astrenskas offer of £50.00 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for this. 
I will direct Astrenska to pay Mr S that amount insofar as it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr S (insofar as it hasnt already paid him ) £50.00
for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman