DRN-3137168
The complaint
Mr Y complains Skipton Building Society (Skipton) system for verification, prevented him 
adding his nominated bank account details to his savings account with them.
What happened
Mr Y says he has a savings account with Skipton and in late April 2021 he attempted online, 
to add a nominated bank account he held at another bank. Mr Y says as part of this process 
he was instructed to input the surname of the account holder at the other bank, which was 
his surname, but for some unknown reason the online system informed him they couldnt 
verify this and the nominated account details couldnt be added. Mr Y says he was told he 
had to provide a copy of a bank statement to verify this and he was required to email this to 
Skipton before the nominated account details could be added. Mr Y says he felt he needed 
to telephone his other bank to ensure there were no issues, and this call cost him £9.96. Mr 
Y doesnt feel the process for verification is fit for purpose and wants Skipton to compensate 
him.
Skipton says they use a verification system, but there can be a number of reasons why Mr 
Ys other bank account details couldnt be verified, but they were unable to specify why in 
this case, it wasnt accepted. Skipton says the bank statement was required to complete the 
verification process and this was completed the same day.
Mr Y wasnt happy with Skiptons response and referred the matter to this service.  
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Skipton were entitled to ask for verification details, if the system they 
used wasnt able to confirm Mr Ys nominated account for any reason. The investigator 
explained, Skipton didnt ask Mr Y to contact his other bank, where he incurred the costs he 
refers to, or indicate there was any issues with his other bank account. 
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr Y to attempt to add a nominated bank 
account in his name, to his Skipton savings account, only to find an automated verification 
process wouldnt recognise it. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Skipton acted 
unreasonably when asking Mr Y, for further evidence to verify his nominated bank account 
details. 
The first thing to say here is businesses like Skipton, use forms of automated verification 
systems to help streamline the verification process when adding nominated bank accounts 
or making payments. That said, in order to meet its regulatory requirements, there are times 
when Skipton may ask for physical evidence to be provided, to ensure the correct 
information is verified and while Mr Y may not agree, that is done to help protect its 
customers. 
Here the verification system for reasons unknown, couldnt verify Mr Ys other bank details 
that he wanted to nominate for his Skipton savings account. Skipton have explained to Mr Y 
there are a number of reasons why that may happen, but the system they use couldnt 
specify exactly why this was. While I can see that was a source of frustration to Mr Y, it is 
worth saying that Skipton are entitled in any event, to request formal verification if they feel 
its required. Here, Skipton asked Mr Y to provide a copy of his latest bank statement, but I 
cant see they ever suggested there were issues with his other bank, so if Mr Y contacted his 
bank that was his decision, and I cant hold Skipton responsible for that, or any resulting 
costs that he incurred. 
Mr Y feels Skiptons verification process is inadequate, but Im not persuaded by his 
argument here, simply because on this occasion, the verification system couldnt verify his 
nominated bank details. I cant say this means its not for fit for purpose, but in any event its 
not the role of this service to tell businesses like Skipton, what processes and systems they 
must use - more that it ensures its customers are treated fairly. While I can understand that 
Mr Y has experienced some inconvenience here, I am satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for 
Skipton to ask for further verification by means of an emailed copy bank statement, after all 
this resulted in the verification being confirmed that same day. 
While Mr Y will be disappointed with my decision , I wont be asking anymore of Skipton.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman