DRN-1598221
The complaint 
Ms Ls complaint is about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). She says that it 
admitted that a mortgage she took out in 2012 and paid off in full in 2014 was unsuitable to 
meet her needs as it had been due to last beyond her planned retirement age. Ms L wants 
more compensation than the £200 NatWest sent as if she hadnt paid off her mortgage, she 
mightve suffered serious financial difficulties.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This service doesnt consider what mightve happened  we look at what did happen 
and the consequences. In Ms Ls case, while theres no dispute that NatWest when 
advising her about the 2012 mortgage didnt properly deal with the issue of post-
retirement payments, in my view the failing didnt affect Ms L as she paid the 
mortgage off in full in 2014.
And I note that while Ms L had the mortgage, she made overpayments so theres no 
objective evidence that the advice caused her financial difficulties. The overpayments 
show that its likely Ms L couldve afforded to pay more each month, which wouldve 
reduced the length of the mortgage, but this simply confirms what both parties 
already know which is that the length of the mortgage recommended by NatWest in 
2012 was too long to meet Ms Ls needs.
Im not persuaded that Ms L did suffer any financial loss. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset suffered, but I think £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms L by NatWests failing, 
particularly as we dont award compensation for what mightve happened.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman