DRN-1983595
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (the business) failed to complete his 
request to transfer his ISA holdings in a timely manner. 
Hes also unhappy with the compensation offered by the business for trouble and upset and 
financial loss. 
 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr R first tried to transfer his ISA holdings to a new provider. The request was 
processed on 22 April 2019, but the funds were sent back on 26 April 2019 because the 
provider couldnt accept online transfers. Mr R says the business made request in the wrong 
format (online rather than by cheque) and then lost the money by sending it to the wrong 
account. 
The business says the funds were re-applied to Mr Rs account on 7 May 2019 after they 
were sent back. It also said that it doesnt make ISA transfers by cheque and that it was on 
this occasion aware that the provider had accepted online transfers in the past.  
Mr R sought a new provider and in due course complained to the business about his initial 
request to transfer. The business upheld the complaint and offered Mr R £150 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused along with any lost interest.  
In relation to the second request to transfer, the business says that the paper application 
from the new provider  dated 3 June 2019  was received on 24 June 2019. The business 
made the transfer on 2 July 2019 along with a secondary cash interest payment of £34.70 
(to account for the period between the date of the request to the date of transfer). 
I understand that Mr R contacted the business on 9 July 2019 concerned why the funds 
hadnt been received by the new provider and the business explained that due to a 
processing error the funds were incorrectly addressed. It re-sent the funds (correctly 
addressed) on 12 July 2019. 
Mr R complained to the business again, this time about the second transfer, he says the 
provider contacted the business (on several occasions) to get the funds transferred over. 
And when the monies were finally transferred, the business sent them to the wrong account 
leaving it to Mr R to chase up and get matters sorted. 
The business upheld the complaint. It said that even though the transfer had been 
completed within the expected timescale, there was a delay caused by the administrative 
error. It offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. The business subsequently confirmed that compensation payment was made on 28 May 
and 13 August respectively  the latter payment (in relation to the second transfer request) 
included a refund of £23.25 because the business waived its account fees for the period. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business upheld Mr Rs complaint and apologised for its service not meeting his 
expectations. 
It successfully transferred the funds to the new provider in pursuance of his second 
set of instructions  and paid for the lost interest in relation to the first attempt to 
transfer. The business has also paid compensation for trouble and upset caused by 
its errors which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In relation to the first request to transfer the business correctly re-paid the funds into 
Mr Rs account along with interest for the period that the funds were uninvested.
In relation to the second request to transfer whilst the business couldve made the 
transfer quicker  if it wasnt for administrative error  it completed it within an 
acceptable timeframe. 
Hes aware that Mr R moved his funds with the stocks and shares ISA to the cash 
fund in anticipation of the transfer to another provider. 
For the transfer of £85,000 between the period of April and mid-July, the potential 
loss of interest couldve amounted to £90 gross. This is based on 0.5% a year - 1% 
less the 0.5% a year being paid to the business cash account. 
He accepts the calls made to chase up the business wouldnt have been necessary if 
the business had administered the request efficiently. 
Nevertheless, the overall compensation of £323.25  including lost interest and 
payment for trouble and upset  is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, he said he doesnt believe 
compensation offered by the business is fair or reasonable for the (several) errors made by 
the business leaving him not knowing where his money was. He doesnt understand why it 
has taken the business 10 months to get to this stage and wonders whether that has 
something to not wanting to uphold the complaint. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
As the business has upheld both parts of the complaint the key issue for me to consider is 
redress. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says, overall, Im satisfied 
that the redress offered by the business is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
Rs strength of feeling about this matter.Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I can confirm that 
I dont need any further information in order to reach a decision in this case.
The first transfer request was processed on 22 April 2019  when the business tried to 
transfer £84,445 online  I note that the business tried to action the transfer again on 29 
April 2019, after it had been returned on 26 April 2019. 
Although it did this without informing Mr R, Im satisfied the business did this to try and fulfil 
his instructions sooner rather than later.   
I note that Mr R had made enquiries on 25 April 2019  days after his request was first 
processed  and his business account balance was nil, suggesting that the money was on 
route to the new provider. In the circumstances I dont think the business couldve known 
anything was wrong at that point. 
Despite Mr R being unhappy with the method of transfer I note the business no longer 
transferred funds via cheque - which can have its own set of problems with cheques not 
clearing or going missing in the post. 
Im satisfied that it was a business decision  made in the reasonable exercise of its 
commercial judgement  not to make transfers via cheque, and its not for me to tell it how to 
run its business. 
I also note the business says eight previous transfers had been successfully completed with 
the provider, so there was probably no reason for it to think this wouldnt go through and that 
probably explains why the provider wasnt contacted after the funds were first returned. 
Im satisfied that the business offer to pay interest  had the £84,445 remained in Mr Rs 
account between 22 April and 7 May  at a rate of 0.5% for cash held on its platform is 
broadly reasonable, along with £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Im aware that Mr R moved his funds with the stocks and shares ISA to the cash fund in 
anticipation of the transfer to another provider, but he wasnt asked to do this by the 
business. Besides, the transfer request wasnt going to be possible  given that the new 
provider didnt accept online transfers  so in this instance I dont think Mr R is entitled to 
interest at the rate the new provider wouldve paid.
I note that Mr R had to source a different business to transfer his money to after the 
business was unable to accommodate the first request.  
Initially when Mr H called the business on 12 June 2019 it didnt have a record of the 
request. It only received the paperwork (dated 3 June 2019) on 24 June in its Edinburgh 
office. Its not clear what happened but its possible there was a delay in the post, or the 
documents were filled out by the new provider but not sent  I simply cant tell. In any case, I cant blame the business for the actions of third-party businesses, as it can only action a 
transfer request once it has been received. 
I note the business raised the request  to transfer £84,497 to the new provider  the very 
same day, but no action was then taken. On 3 July the funds were (purportedly) transferred 
to the new provider, along with an interest payment of £34.70 (which was credited to Mr Rs 
account on 1 July 2019). Unfortunately, it wasnt until 6 July that it was discovered that the 
transfer hadnt gone through due to a manual administrative error. I note Mr R was only 
notified of this when he called up on 9 July 2019.  
Following an escalation of Mr Rs complaint (on 9 July 2019) I note the transfer of £84,497, 
was successfully made on 12 July  roughly within 20 business days of receiving the request 
which I dont think is unreasonable. I also note the interest payment of £34.70 was confirmed 
on 21 July 2019. 
The transfer wouldve completed sooner but for the mistake by the business so I think a 
trouble and upset award is appropriate. But Im aware that transfers can generally take 
between 15-30 business days and I think, the business offer to pay Mr R £150 for the errors 
that prevented the transfer taking place quicker is fair and reasonable.  In the circumstances 
I dont think Mr R is entitled to any interest. 
Overall, I think the redress offered by the business is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr R 
will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, 
I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him 
what he wants.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman