DRN-2032218
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc failed to update his address details despite his writing to 
them about it several times. He says as a result correspondence about his account was sent 
to the wrong address. 
What happened
 Mr H had an account with BOS. He says he told BOS several times about his change of 
address but it failed to update its systems and, as a result, it sent information on his loan 
account to a previous address. Because of that Mr H says he didnt receive the Notice of 
Default on his loan account and so he wasnt aware that it was in arrears until the following 
year.
  
Mr H is also concerned that a number of letters sent by BOS, including the Default Notice, 
were sent to his former workplace abroad. Hes concerned that his former employer may 
have seen this information about his personal finances which might jeopardise any future 
reference from them and so impact on his employment prospects.  Hed like BOS to 
apologise, to waive any outstanding balance on his loan account and to pay him £1,000 
compensation for the humiliation and distress caused by its mistake.
BOS said its records showed one overseas address for Mr H up until 17 January 2016 when 
it changed to a UK address. Other than a change of address between 20 April 2018 to 19 
February 2019, thered been no other addresses noted on Mr Hs file. It was confident the 
Notice of Default had been sent to Mr Hs UK address as that was the one registered at that 
time and, for that reason, it didnt feel it needed to pay any compensation.
After Mr H provided further information, BOS acknowledged that the overseas address 
referred to by Mr H was shown as the correspondence address on one of his accounts  and 
that this was different to the main address which was an address in the UK. However, it said 
the letters on the loan account, including the Default Notice, came off a different system so it 
didnt agree that those particular letters would have gone to that address. For that reason, it 
still believed the letters and notices relating to the arrears had been sent to Mr Hs UK 
address.
Our investigator said the fact BOS systems showed that the overseas address had been 
recorded as the correspondence address for Mr H, supported his claim to have told BOS 
about the change of address.  And although BOS said that the letters relating to his loan 
arrears came off a different system and the two databases werent linked, she felt BOS 
should have ensured all its systems were updated when the change of address was noted. It 
hadnt and because of that, and because BOS didnt have copies of the actual letters sent, 
she couldnt be sure the letters on the loan account hadnt been sent to the overseas 
address.  She felt BOS service regard in this respect was poor.
However, there wasnt any evidence to show that Mr Hs former employer had received or 
opened any letters about Mr Hs finances. For that reason, she couldnt recommend BOS 
pay Mr H the sort of compensation that hed suggested. She recommended BOS pay Mr H 
£75 for failing to update all its systems to reflect his changes of address.
BOS disagreed and said the account showing the address of his former employer was an old 
system used in branch and it wasnt linked to the collections account so it didnt agree 
thered been any crossover.
Mr H also disagreed with the amount of compensation and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments in this decision on 
what I think is relevant. Where the evidence is incomplete contradictory or disputed -as it is 
here on some issues - Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is whats 
more likely than not to have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case.
At the heart of this complaint is Mr Hs belief that BOS failed to follow his instructions to 
update his address details on his loan account with the result that confidential 
correspondence was sent to an old address overseas. This address belonged to a former 
employer and Mr H was understandably concerned that his former employer may have seen 
the letters, which might in turn affect any future reference.
Ive seen BOS has disputed this, and why. Ive also seen the summary of addresses on Mr 
Hs loan account that doesnt include this overseas address.
However, Mr H has provided an account summary that lists this address as the 
correspondence address at the relevant time. And although BOS agrees it amended Mr Hs 
address details in January 2016 in line with his instructions, it doesnt appear that this 
correspondence address on this account was updated at the same time. 
Ive seen BOS says this database is an old one for use in the branch and that its separate to 
the collections account. However when Mr H told BOS of his change of address in January 
2016 its reasonable to think that he thought all of his account details would be updated. Its 
clear that wasnt the case and I consider that was an oversight, as well as increasing the risk 
of letters being sent to this former address. 
Ive seen Mr H says he didnt receive any letters from the collections team.  Its not clear why 
this was but BOS hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual letters sent so I can 
understand why Mr H feels concerned theyve gone to the wrong address.
Having said that in order to direct an award for the upset Mr H says he suffered as a result of 
this, Id need to see information to show that letters were in fact sent to this address and that 
they been seen by someone other than Mr H. I havent seen anything to show thats the 
case here so I cant reasonably ask BOS to compensate Mr H for something that may not 
have happened.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I consider BOS should compensate Mr H for the failure to 
update all its systems in January 2016. The investigator has recommended £75 and I 
consider thats reasonable for the impact of whats happened on Mr H. I realise this is less 
than Mr H was seeking but for the reasons given I consider its fair and in line with what Id 
have awarded for similar complaints.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay Mr H £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman