DRN-3758679
The complaint
Mr E complains about a hire agreement he had with Ald Automotive Limited (Ald) for a 
vehicle. Hes unhappy about being charged for damage on the vehicle when it was returned 
at the end of the agreement. Mr E believes that as the vehicle was returned with mileage 
lower than the maximum permitted mileage agreed for the hire agreement, the vehicle 
should be worth more than expected. And that this should be considered against the cost of 
the damage charges. 
What happened
Mr Es hire agreement with Ald came to an end and as is common, the vehicle was 
inspected before being taken back by Ald. The inspection report noted damage to the 
vehicle and listed repair costs for damage that the inspector considered went beyond fair 
wear and tear. The damage that was being charged for included repairs to two wheels, one 
wing, one door, the rear bumper and inner door. The front bumper also needed replacing. 
The total charge is over £1,600.
Mr E is unhappy about the charge. He has referred to the mileage of the vehicle when it was 
returned and that this was considerably less than the maximum mileage permitted under the 
agreement. Mr E believes that as the vehicle should be worth more than expected at the end 
of the agreement as it has lower mileage, Ald should offset the cost of the damage against 
the gain received because of the lower mileage. 
Ald did not uphold Mr Es complaint, so he referred it to our service for consideration. One of 
our investigators set out their view of the complaint and explained why they did not consider 
it should be upheld. In summary, the investigator found that the damage being charged for 
was beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. They referred to the milage limits 
within Mr Es agreement and that these are maximum limits that may incur an additional cost 
if exceeded. But there was nothing to indicate Mr E was entitled to a refund if he did not 
travel the maximum permitted mileage. The investigator felt it was not unreasonable for Ald 
to charge for the damage.  
Mr E did not accept the conclusions and asked for his case to be reviewed. It has therefore 
been passed to me to consider as part of the last stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe my decision will come as further disappointment to Mr E as I have 
come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, for what are broadly the same 
reasons. 
Mr E took out a hire agreement with Ald in 2016 and in return for making the required 
repayments over the 48 month term, Mr E was able to use the vehicle that was supplied to 
him. As the vehicle was acquired through a hire agreement Mr E does not own the vehicle, 
nor would he own it at the end of the agreement term. The vehicle would always be owned 
by Ald and would need to be returned at the end of the agreement. 
As is common, the terms of the agreement that Mr E entered into with Ald included certain 
requirements on both parties. For example, Mr E was not permitted to drive more than 
60,000 miles (without incurring an additional charge) over the original duration of the 48 
month term and Mr E was responsible for maintaining the vehicle. The agreement terms also 
refer to when the vehicle is returned and that, 
The state of repair and condition of the Vehicle is to be consistent with its age and 
mileage, assuming good treatment and allowing for Fair Wear and Tear. The 
Customer will pay to [the lease company] all sums necessary to restore the Vehicle 
to a roadworthy condition
Mr E refers to the agreement terms indicating an additional charge may be applied if the 
maximum permitted mileage is exceeded, but there is nothing referring to what he believes 
should happen if the vehicle is returned with lower than the excess mileage. I will refer to this 
point later.
I understand that the original term of 48 months was extended by mutual consent between 
Mr E and Ald and I have not seen anything that would lead me to conclude that the original 
terms Mr E agreed to in 2016 do not apply because of the mutual agreement to extend the 
contract. 
Firstly, having considered the terms of the agreement Mr E and Ald entered into Im satisfied 
that Mr E was responsible for the upkeep of the vehicle and this includes repairing any 
damage the vehicle has suffered. Im also satisfied that if that damage exceeds what would 
be considered fair wear and tear, when considering the age and mileage of the vehicle, Mr E 
would be liable for the cost of repairing the damage. 
The vehicle had travelled 68,112 miles when it was handed back in July 2022 and was 
around six years and two months old. I fully accept that because of the age and mileage of 
the vehicle it would be unreasonable to expect it to be in a showroom new condition and it 
would be showing some minor damage. 
I have considered the inspection report that was completed when the vehicle was taken back 
in July 2022 and this includes the photos and videos taken by the inspector. It is clear from 
the eight areas of damage that are noted as chargeable that there is damage to the vehicle. 
In deciding whether or not that damage would be considered fair wear and tear for the 
vehicle I have had regard to what the BVRLA sets out in its fair wear and tear guide. This is 
a guide designed to provide further clarification around what damage would be considered 
fair wear and tear and is reasonable to apply in this instance when considering Mr Es 
damage. 
Having considered each of the areas of chargeable damage I am satisfied that they go 
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. A significant amount of the damage 
charge applies to the front bumper and it is clear from the inspection video that this is 
significantly, in my view, beyond fair wear and tear. Looking at the considerable damage to 
the bumper and the front left wing, it appears that the damage is more likely impact or crash 
damage that has simply not been repaired by Mr E. 
I have reviewed the costs associated with the chargeable areas of damage but considering 
the extent of the damage and the number of affected areas, I am not persuaded the damage 
charges are excess. Mr E also believes that the damage could have been repaired cheaper, 
which I accept is a possibility. Mr E should have been aware that he was responsible for the upkeep of the vehicle and would have been informed before the agreement came to the end 
of the original 48 month term that any damage should be repaired before the vehicle is 
returned. By returning the vehicle without having repaired the damage then I think Mr E 
should have been reasonably aware that he could be charged. 
Mr E questions whether the damage was actually repaired but it is clear in my view that even 
if the damage was not repaired, the resale price of the vehicle would be considerably 
reduced because of the extent of the damage. If Ald chose to sell the car before repairing 
the damage this would not be unreasonable in my view. It does not however mean that Ald 
has not suffered a loss as a result of the damaged vehicle. 
As referred to above, the agreement between Mr E and Ald was on that basis that Mr E was 
permitted to drive a maximum of 60,000 miles over the original 48 months. This was I 
understand extended with Mr E being able to drive a maximum of 15,000 miles each year 
after that. Mr E is correct that the agreement terms refer to additional charges if he exceeded 
the maximum mileage, but the agreement is silent about the vehicle being returned with less 
mileage. 
Mr Es agreement allowed him to drive a maximum amount of miles before being liable for 
an additional charge and was not on a pay per mile basis. Mr E agreed to those terms when 
he entered into the agreement and they do not in my view seem unfair. Had Mr E felt that the 
terms were unreasonable, or he would be required to pay too much each month in return for 
the maximum miles he could travel, he was free to look for alternative arrangements 
elsewhere. The absence of any reference to returning the vehicle with lower than the 
maximum mileage is not in my view an issue as the agreement is clear about the maximum 
mileage Mr E can travel without incurring an additional cost. 
I appreciate that the vehicle may possibly be worth more than Ald had anticipated because 
the vehicle had travelled less than the maximum permitted mileage, but this does not in my 
view mean Ald should be required to offset the £1,600 of damage charges. The retail value, 
or secondary hire value, of the vehicle to Ald after Mr Es agreement ends is a matter for Ald. 
That will be impacted by a number of things including the broader market conditions, which 
could result in a higher or lower than expected valuation. Assuming the vehicle is returned in 
a reasonable condition, the value of the vehicle after agreement ends is again of no concern 
to Mr E. Mr E would not be entitled to any benefit from a more buoyant market, nor would he 
be required to pay anything in a depressed market. That is a risk that Ald would be liable for. 
That is however on the basis of the vehicle being returned in a reasonable condition and Im 
satisfied in the circumstances here that the damage to the vehicle will incur significant repair 
costs or significantly impact on the resale value of the vehicle. And that this would cause Ald 
to achieve a lower price on resale or incur those repair costs. It is for these reasons that I am 
satisfied that it would not be unreasonable for Ald to apply the charge and there are no 
grounds for me to instruct Ald to reduce or offset the charge against any potential higher 
valuation because of the lower than expected mileage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against Ald Automotive Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023. I would remind Mr E that my decision is the last 
stage in our process and should he wish to continue his dispute with Ald he will need to look 
for alternative avenues, such as the courts, to do this.
 Mark Hollands
Ombudsman