DRN-2832545
The complaint
Miss K complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.    
What happened
In October 2020 Miss K acquired a used car via a three-year hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was eight years old and had a mileage of 54,000.
Miss K says on the day she collected the car an error message flashed up on the dashboard 
for the drive train, so she contacted the supplying dealer and returned the car to them a few 
days later. Miss K also says that when she returned the car the speakers had begun to make 
a funny noise. The dealer said it couldnt find any faults when it ran diagnostic tests.
In December 2020, Miss K says that a front headlight bulb blew so she took the car to a 
third-party garage. This garage told Miss K that the car had an oil leak and she returned the 
car to the supplying dealer who undertook a repair to the sump plug and also arranged for 
the car to have an oil service at another garage.
The car was returned to Miss K who says that a short time later the car started to lose 
power. She also says that when she took the car for its MOT it failed at first and she had to 
have repairs carried out to the lighting units for both of the cars side mirrors. 
Miss K was unhappy about the quality of the car and complained to MotoNovo. In her 
complaint she also raised issues about the heater being noisy, one of the windows not 
opening properly, noises from the speakers and the failure of the dealership to provide a 
second car key.  MotoNovo arranged for the car to be independently inspected.
The car was inspected, and the independent engineer confirmed the heater, speakers and 
window all had faults but said they didnt have sufficient evidence to say these had all been 
present at the point of sale. They said in their opinion these were issues arising from wear 
and tear. However, the independent engineer also noted that there was oil wetness to the 
offside of the engine block which they said might be due to previous oil leaks but should be 
investigated.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint as they said the issues with the car hadnt been 
present at the point of supply and had developed through the car being used. Miss K was 
unhappy at MotoNovos decision and complained to this service. She also took the car for a 
health-check with a manufacturer approved garage.
The manufacturer approved garage said it had found an oil leak that required further 
investigation as well as faults with the heater motor and a window motor.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld and that it would 
be fair for her to reject the car. He said there wasnt any evidence that the oil leak was a 
wear and tear issue unlike the heater and window faults. He said as this oil leak had 
occurred within the first six months of Miss K acquiring the car, he thought it was more likely 
than not that it had been present at the point of supply. 
Our investigator also said that he thought the dealer had already had an opportunity of 
repairing the oil leak in December 2020, but it had been found to be present again in March 
2021 when the car had been inspected by the third-party garage. Our investigator said he 
thought this second leak was likely to be related to the first, and so, the repair hadnt been 
successful. He also noted the findings of the independent engineer in regard to the oil 
wetness. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss K return the car and for the agreement to be ended 
with repayment of her deposit. He also said that MotoNovo should pay Miss K £100 
compensation for having to deal with the faulty car as well as reimbursing her for the costs of 
the health-check carried out by a manufacturer approved garage.
Miss K agreed with the view of our investigator but MotoNovo disagreed. It said no oil leak 
had been picked up when the car had been MOTd in December 2020 which had been after 
the supplying dealer had repaired the sump plug. Miss K had been able to drive the car for a 
further 4,172 miles between the MOT and when the manufacturers approved garage had 
noted an oil leak. It said the manufacturers approved garage had only undertaken a visual 
inspection and so there was no evidence this leak was due to a failed repair. MotoNovo said 
both the independent engineer and the manufacturers approved garage had said the leak 
needed to be further investigated and it may not be a leak at all.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss K is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo 
is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods 
are supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car was eight years old, and with a mileage of 54,000. And I think that, 
taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to 
be issues with maintenance and repair after a reasonable period of time, as 
components of the car would have been subjected to wear and tear through use. I 
think there would be an expectation the car wouldnt be free from minor defects.Looking at the evidence, I think MotoNovo has provided sufficient evidence that the 
issues with the cars speakers, window motor and heater motor were things that had 
arisen through wear and tear and although they occurred within the first six months 
hadnt been present at the point of supply. 
Ive also seen that Miss K was upset that no second key had been provided with the 
car. There appeared to have been a misunderstanding with the dealership over this 
and the dealership had offered her a sum of money to obtain her own key. In light of 
that, I dont think I need to look at that matter any further.
However, Ive seen Miss K has also raised issues with the performance of the car 
and an intermittent issue with a drive train fault appearing. Ive also seen that that the 
supplying dealer wasnt able to find any fault relating to that when it took the car 
back. 
In December 2020 Miss K was advised that the car had an oil leak while getting a 
light bulb replaced. This leak isnt disputed as the supplying dealer carried out 
repairs to the sump plug. Later that same month, the car was subjected to an MOT 
which it passed once issues with some lights had been repaired. MotoNovo says 
there was no oil leak found during the MOT, but I am not surprised by that as it 
would appear there was a round one week between the repair by the dealership and 
the car receiving an oil service and the MOT testing. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to give much weight to the fact an oil leak wasnt raised at the time the 
car was MOTd.
The car was the subject of an independent inspection in January 2021, Ive seen that 
this engineer noted oil wetness and said that although it could be due to the recent 
repairs it should be investigated. I dont think it would be reasonable, in light of an oil 
leak being found in March 202, to say that this oil wetness wasnt more likely than 
not to be due to an oil leak.
MotoNovo says that there isnt any evidence that the second oil leak was due to 
failed repairs or that it was an actual leak since the health- check was a visual 
inspection only. But Im satisfied that the engineer who undertook the health check in 
March 2021 found an oil leak as opposed to a potential leak. I also think its fair to 
take into account that there were signs of an oil leak in January.
I think its reasonable to consider that its more likely than not there is a link between 
the oil leak that was repaired in December 2020 with the oil leak that was found in 
March 2021. I also think its reasonable to consider that there was a failed repair 
since it re-appeared within a relatively short space of time. I dont have any evidence 
that the car was undrivable due to this leak, so I am not giving weight to the distance 
Miss K has driven between December 2020 and March 2021. I dont think I can 
reasonably say that driving around 4,000 miles means that the second leak must be 
a separate event unlinked to the first.
The car has suffered two oil leaks within the first six months of Miss K acquiring it 
and under the Consumer Rights Act there is a presumption that if a fault occurs 
within the first six months it would have been developing or present at the point of 
supply unless there is evidence to the contrary. I havent seen any evidence that 
would suggest the oil leak was due to wear and tear. And as set out above, I think 
its also reasonable to link these two leaks. So, I think its fair to say the supplying 
dealer has already had an opportunity to repair and failed to do so. This means Miss 
K doesnt need to agree to further repairs and its fair she now rejects the car, ends 
the agreement and is reimbursed her deposit.As Miss K has had to deal with the faulty car, I also think it would be fair for 
MotoNovo to pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this will 
have caused her. However, as Miss K has had fair use of the car, Im not going to 
ask it to reimburse her any of the monthly instalments made under the agreement.
MotoNovo should also reimburse Miss K the cost of the health-check as this has 
provided the evidence of the oil leak. This cost £49.50. But I am not going to ask it to 
reimburse the costs of the MOT as under the agreement this was Miss Ks 
responsibility and the repairs undertaken were for issues of wear and tear.
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss K.
Refund Miss K her deposit of £1000 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement,
Pay Miss K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing 
with the faulty car.
Refund Miss K £49.50 being the cost of the health-check together with yearly interest 
of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Miss Ks credit file.
My final decision
As set out above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Im asking MotoNovo Finance Limited 
trading as MotoNovo Finance to do the following:
 End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Miss K.
Refund Miss K her deposit of £1000 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement,
Pay Miss K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing 
with the faulty car.
Refund Miss K £49.50 being the cost of the health-check together with yearly interest 
of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Miss Ks credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman