DRN-3716756
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave her unsuitable 
investment advice.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company. For ease, Ill 
refer to everything as if its been said by Mrs G.
What happened
Mrs G sought investment advice from Halifax in November 2008. She had some equities that 
shed purchased herself, so had some investment experience. And she held various deposit 
accounts with Halifax. She wanted the opportunity to earn a higher return than that available 
on the deposit accounts.
She was assessed as having a medium attitude to risk. But she was worried that her 
equities had gone down in value and wanted to invest in something lower risk. She was 
retired and said it was important for her to guarantee the value of her capital.
Halifax recommended Mrs G invested £10,000 in a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP) and 
place £10,000 in a one-year guaranteed deposit account.
Mrs G says this wasnt suitable for her because the protection element of the investment 
hindered its performance, and a direct equity investment would have been more suitable.
Halifax said its recommendation was suitable for Mrs G because she wanted to invest in a 
lower risk portfolio and that she wanted some protection of her capital. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the advice was suitable for Mrs G, given her circumstances at the time.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
The one-year deposit account that was offered with the GIP and was an unreasonable 
inducement. It muddied the water by emphasising a high interest rate alongside a 
product (the GIP) which had limited growth because of the capital protection element.
She didnt need the capital protection element because she was a long-term investor.
The GIP was severely limited by its design.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax gave Mrs G investment advice around 15 years ago. I cant be certain exactly what 
was discussed at the time. But Ive placed reliance on the records, such as the fact find, that 
were completed at the time, and the financial report which summarised the matters 
discussed and Halifaxs recommendation. 
Mrs G wanted to obtain a better return on some of the money that she held in bank deposit 
accounts. She had some existing equity investments, but she was concerned about their 
recent drop in value. So whilst, having completed Halifaxs risk questionnaire, she was 
assessed as having a medium attitude to risk, its clearly noted that she didnt want to take 
a medium risk with this particular investment. And she wanted some form of capital 
guarantee. This doesnt seem unreasonable taking into account her circumstances at the 
time  in particular, her age and her limited monthly surplus income. And she sought advice 
during the global market downturn which most likely would have made her less confident 
about investing.
I think the financial report made it reasonably clear that the GIP was a lower risk level, and 
therefore might not have the potential for capital gains that a higher risk investment might 
have. The report also made it clear that, your actual returns may be lower than if you had 
invested in non-guaranteed investments. Mrs G agreed to go ahead with the 
recommendation which persuades me that the capital guarantee element of the GIP was 
important to her.
Halifax also recommended a one-year guaranteed deposit bond. This bond was available 
because Mrs G was investing in a GIP. I think the financial report reasonably clearly set out 
the two investments  the GIP and the one-year deposit  and I dont find there was any 
blurring of the investments advantages and disadvantages as Mrs G suggests. I dont think 
it was inappropriate to recommend a one-year guaranteed deposit at a higher rate than she 
was earning on her existing deposit accounts, given her worries about equity investment and 
against the backdrop of uncertain global markets. Halifax recommended a further meeting 
when the deposit matured.
Mrs Gs representative has outlined investments that it thinks would have been more 
suitable for Mrs G. But I agree with our investigator  I think this is said with the benefit of 
hindsight. And, whilst the GIP may not have been the only suitable investment, this doesnt 
mean it was unsuitable.
I think Halifaxs recommendation was in line with Mrs Gs investment objectives and risk 
appetite and, given her circumstances, left her with enough readily available funds 
uninvested. For these reasons, I dont find Halifaxs recommendation to be unsuitable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman