DRN-3173167
The complaint
Mr H complains that Soteria Insurance Limited were unfair in cancelling his motor insurance 
policies.
What happened
Mr H applied for an insurance policy with Soteria in September 2020. A policy cancellation 
notice was issued shortly after, because Soteria considered Mr H to have provided false 
information during the application. Namely, they felt he had a non-motoring conviction which 
he failed to disclose. Mr H was provided with a refund of the remaining policy term.
Mr H then took out a second policy with Soteria, but that was cancelled as well, for the same 
reason.
Mr H said that was unfair. He provided information in the form of a Background Check 
Report which suggests there are no convictions recorded against him. Mr H also says his 
prison sentence related to a civil matter, not a criminal one. He feels, therefore, that Soterias 
decision to treat him as they did was unfair.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They ultimately concluded that Soteria hadnt 
treated Mr H unfairly, but he remained dissatisfied, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to begin by explaining that it is not for me to necessarily judge whether Mr H was 
required to disclose his conviction to Soteria. Rather, my focus is on whether Soteria were 
fair and reasonable in their actions. I appreciate the two will overlap, but in the main, it is 
Soterias decision making and actions that I am assessing.
While the issue of disclosure is covered by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) it is worth me pointing out that Soterias policy terms 
separately allow them to cancel a policy  which is what they did. This wasnt a case of 
policy avoidance, which CIDRA allows for in certain circumstances.
I have considered whether Soteria fairly expected Mr H to have disclosed his conviction 
during the application. But, because theres a right to cancellation regardless of that, Soteria 
were able to cancel the policy anyway  provided they had fair reason to do so. And while
Mr H may consider his conviction to have simply been a civil matter, he received a lengthy 
stay in prison for it. So, I dont think its unreasonable for a business to refuse his custom 
upon discovery of that. Insurers can decide who they have as customers, and there can be 
various reasons why they choose not to cover someone.
It is also worth noting that Mr Hs conviction related to payment issues, and so it isnt 
unreasonable for a business to consider such a person as being a possible risk to them in 
that respect.
Returning to Soterias view that Mr H failed to answer the application questions accurately, 
they received a report which said a warrant was issued for his arrest and he was later jailed. 
It also said he was convicted in relation to illegal activities and was sentenced to ten years in 
prison, of which he says he served half.
Soteria say Mr H was asked the following questions, respectively for each policy:
Have you got any unspent non-motoring related criminal convictions?
Do you have any unspent non-motoring convictions?
I think it was reasonable of Soteria to have expected Mr H to answer in the positive, given 
the information they later received. And while I note he has provided a transcript, in which a 
judge is recorded to have said it was not a sentence, he was still required to serve a lengthy 
stay in prison.
I also note that when the investigator requested a copy of the confiscation order relating to 
Mr Hs imprisonment, he declined to provide it. That is his prerogative, but it does mean we 
are working from limited information, and it may have been helpful in reaching a decision.
Ive taken account of Mr Hs Background Check Report, but note that it says it is provided 
for general assistance in the recruitment process. It doesnt seem to me to be a definitive 
record of Mr Hs legal history. It also says it provides no guarantees of accuracy.
Overall, Im satisfied that Soteria werent unreasonable in their actions. They asked Mr H 
questions in relation to convictions which he answered in the negative. Soteria later received 
information which said Mr H had been convicted in relation to illegal activities. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Soteria to act on this information in cancelling Mr Hs insurance policies.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman