DRN-3569280
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed £15,000 to be withdrawn from her 
mortgage current account (MCA) by the joint account holder (Mr M), without her knowledge 
or consent.
What happened
In 2004, Ms M took out a mortgage with Barclays. This was an offset flexible mortgage  a 
type of MCA. Ms M says she was advised by Barclays to add another party  who had held 
an account with Barclays for more than 10 years - as a guarantor in order to take this out as 
her income at the time was not sufficient for the mortgage to be granted in her sole name.
In 2019, Ms M discovered that Mr M has withdrawn £15,000 from the MCA. She complained 
to Barclays about the matter.  
Barclays didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint and so she referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that Barclays had treated Ms M 
unfairly.
Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a very difficult and distressing matter for Ms M. Ive carefully 
considered all of the information she has provided and what shes said on the matter.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
In 2004, the mortgage was arranged in the joint names of Ms M and Mr M. Ive reviewed the 
available information from the time and can see that a deed of trust was drawn up by Ms Ms 
solicitors which stated that Mr M would not be responsible for any payments due to the 
mortgage or have any financial interest in the mortgaged property. 
The solicitors also prepared a transfer deed. Both of these documents refer to the ownership 
of the property - rather than any specific arrangement of the mortgage. 
Ms M has said that her solicitors wrote to her to confirm they had been in touch with 
Barclays in relation to the agreement. Ive considered this letter from July 2004 carefully, 
including the following wording: 
You will recollect that I wrote to your mortgage lender to seek confirmation that we could 
proceed with the mortgage advance despite the fact that your brother was only being party 
to the transaction to assist you in obtaining the mortgage funds and would have no beneficial 
interest in it .
Barclays provided our investigator with a letter sent from Ms Ms solicitors in May 2004 
which outlines that Mr M is not intended to have any financial interest or to take up residence 
in the property. 
Whilst I understand Ms Ms point that this outlined that Mr M was not to have an interest in 
the property - I dont consider this alone would have put Barclays on notice that Mr M should 
not have access to the MCA. The solicitors then go on to advise that a deed of trust should 
be drawn up  for the purposes of recording the arrangement between Ms M and Mr M. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that Barclays had sight of this document, and its confirmed to 
our investigator that it did not receive this. But even if I did - I dont consider that there is 
anything contained in this that would have alerted it to the fact that Mr M was not able to 
access the account. The deed of trust is a document drawn up by the solicitors to reflect an 
agreement between Ms M and Mr M  not Barclays.
Ive also considered the mortgage offer from April 2004 - which sets out that the mortgage is 
to be taken in joint names. There is nothing recorded about any such agreement between 
Ms M and Mr M in this document and as the mortgage is in joint names - both parties are 
jointly and severally liable for the mortgage debt. This also means that both parties can 
access the MCA.
Having reviewed all the evidence available  Im not persuaded that Barclays was aware of 
an issue or agreement between the account holders, or that Mr M should not be able to 
access the MCA. I can see from the contact notes that Ms M attempted a transfer of equity 
in 2006 but unfortunately this was not possible without going through a re-mortgage process 
so was not pursued further. I dont think this alone would have alerted Barclays to an issue 
between the parties or to the fact that Mr M should have limited access. 
The account remained in joint names. And so, when Barclays received a request from Mr M 
to withdraw funds  it allowed this without first seeking Ms Ms consent or conducting any 
further checks, as it would do with any other joint party. 
I can appreciate that this must have been a very distressing discovery for Ms M. But what I 
need to consider here is whether I think Barclay has treated her unfairly. And having 
considered everything, I dont think it did when it released the funds to the joint account 
holder - for the reasons Ive given. 
Mr M has also said that Barclays has acted unethically and allowed Mr M to use these funds 
to repay other lending with it. I cant comment on the conduct of the account of a third party 
who is not joined to this complaint. But regardless of this  as Mr M was a joint party to the 
MCA  he was able to use and access the account. 
I can see that Barclays have now applied a non-amicable marker to the MCA following 
Ms Ms request - to prevent this happening again. I wont be requiring it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
Whilst I understand that this will be very disappointing for Ms M - and I have every sympathy 
for the situation she finds herself in - on balance, I dont think I can fairly uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman