DRN-4216964
The complaint
Mr B complains about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to void his buildings insurance 
policy.
All references to Tesco also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
At application stage Mr B filled out a questionnaire and answered yes to the 
following statement:
Its my main residence and its permanently occupied by me and my family only.
Mr B lives abroad for significant parts of the year, in various locations. Tesco have 
voided Mr Bs policy as it feels the property is not his main residence. 
Therefore, Tesco says Mr B has not made a fair presentation of the risk and had it 
known this, it wouldnt have provided cover. 
Residence isnt defined in the policy. But in general, it means the place where 
someone lives. 
Its not in dispute Mr B stays regularly in places abroad  or the time he spends away 
over a year is greater than the time spent at his property. But Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me there is another primary or permanent address where he resides. 
Tesco said the time Mr B spends away from the home means the property cannot be 
defined as his main residence. But the policy doesnt specify a duration of time Mr B 
needed to occupy the property for.
Tesco highlighted the question sets out whether the property is permanently 
occupied. Its set out the general definition of permanent, which is lasting for a long 
time or forever. And due to the short periods Mr B is at the property, it says this 
wasnt long lasting, meaning he wasnt permanently occupying the property. 
But in full, this asks if the property is permanently occupied by the customer and their 
family only. So, I think this question was intended to assess whether anyone else 
was living at the property  for example if the property was being rented out, or a 
lodger was living at the property. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me the 
property is rented or occupied by anyone else while Mr B is away.
I also note Mr B has owned and lived at the property for over 30 years. A 
considerably long period of time  or long lasting.
Tesco have referenced Mr Bs qualifications and vocation, and this meant he would 
have more understanding than a normal consumer. However, Ive not seen anything 
to support this statement, or evidence Mr B wouldve been an expert in this particular 
area of the industry. So, Im not persuaded by this.
So, considering what Ive set out above, Im persuaded the insured property is Mr Bs 
main residence.
Tesco has pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsman 
in cases involving similar facts. But, as Tesco will be aware, we arent bound by our 
previous decisions and we consider each case on its own individual facts, taking into 
account what we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The relevant law, which in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says a consumer needs to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy.
When looking at the question asked at application, there were no definitions of key 
words or options to view explanatory documentation. Considering Tescos comments 
of how it intended to ask the question, and my interpretation set out above, I think the 
question isnt clear or specific and is open to interpretation. So, I dont think Mr B 
acted unreasonably in answering yes to the above question.
Under CIDRA, when the question asked isnt clear and the consumer took 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, therell be no qualifying 
misrepresentation  in which case an insurer cant take any action even if they were 
provided incorrect information. So, I dont think Tesco acted fairly in this case in 
taking the action it did to avoid the policy.
Unoccupancy statement  Its not currently unoccupied and will not be left unoccupied for 
more than 60 consecutive days 
Tesco have said the above statement isnt relevant to it voiding the policy and it has 
previously repeatedly advised this service that it would not be relying on it to further 
void the policy.  However, it says it further supports its position that Mr Bs property 
wasnt his main residence. 
Ive addressed above the aspect of main residence, so I dont agree with Tesco 
about this statement further supporting its position. As Tesco has repeatedly 
confirmed to this service it is not relying on this term to avoid the policy, on a fair and 
reasonable basis, it can now not do so.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr Bs property has remained damaged and uninhabitable since the date of the incident. 
And the property has suffered further damage since due to the claim not being dealt with.
Mr B has spoken of the stress and inconvenience he has been caused from not being able 
to live at the property. Since the claim decision was made, he also had to arrange alternative 
accommodation when in the UK. Had the claim been dealt with, the policy would have 
provided cover for the cost of alternative accommodation in the circumstances.  
So, I think its reasonable Tesco pay Mr B £500 compensation, as this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience its actions has caused him.To put things right Tesco should:
Reinstate the policy. Tesco has refunded premiums to Mr B, so its reasonable for it to 
ask him to repay these if required.
Assess and meet the claim for fire damage to the building.
Assess and meet the claim for contents damage.
Tesco should also meet the claim for additional damage caused to the buildings and 
contents under the terms of the policy.
Tesco should reimburse any outstanding costs Mr B has incurred for alternative 
accommodation since the claim decision was communicated. Tesco can ask for 
sufficient proof such as invoices should it require it.
Tesco should reimburse the costs plus 8% simple interest. This should be calculated 
from the date Mr B incurred the cost, to the date Tesco reimburses him.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To put things right I direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman