DRN-3114334
The complaint
Mr B complained about delays he experienced when trying to make withdrawals and 
transfers from his National Savings and Investments (NS&I) holdings.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr B attempted to withdraw funds from his NS&I Income Bond using 
their online service. But he experienced problems and error messages which led to his 
attempts being unsuccessful.
On 30 September 2020, Mr B called NS&I to explain his problem and arrange to withdraw 
£32,540.12. Hed originally wanted to withdraw a smaller amount but had been told by NS&I 
they were reducing the rate he earned on his bond. He told them about the error message(s) 
hed received when trying to do this online.
NS&I took details of the error messages hed received. They said they were aware of some 
problems about receiving payments but would pass details of Mr Bs particular issues to their 
IT Team to investigate. NS&I also arranged Mr Bs requested transfer to his account held 
with another business. 
Mr B called NS&I again on 1 October 2020. He wanted to transfer money from his Income 
Bonds into Premium Bonds. Mr B said hed tried to do this online the previous day without 
success and was concerned the new premium bonds wouldnt be included in NS&Is 
November prize draw. NS&I confirmed they could make the transfer. But because the month 
end cut off had passed, they wouldnt normally be included in Novembers draw. NS&I 
agreed to make a request for them to be included, given the problems Mr B had 
experienced. They said theyd let him know the outcome of their request.
When he didnt hear anything more, Mr B contacted NS&I again on 13 October 2020. NS&I 
apologised they hadnt got back to him. They offered to either email their department again 
or Mr B could raise a complaint. Mr B didnt want to complain, so NS&I agreed to chase their 
department about including the new premium bonds in the November draw.
Mr B called NS&I again on 22 October 2020 as he still hadnt heard anything. NS&I spoke to 
the relevant department who confirmed they would ensure Mr Bs new Premium Bonds were 
included in their November prize draw.
Mr B said he continued to have problems with his online access and had to call NS&I on 
numerous occasions resulting in long periods waiting on hold. He said, on occasions, his call 
was cut off. Mr B said his income had been impacted as a result of the global pandemic and 
he was reliant upon the money held with NS&I to meet essential bills. 
So, Mr B decided to complain to NS&I about being unable to access his savings with them. 
He said hed also previously had problems paying money into his investments using his debit 
card with another bank. He told NS&I he needed access to his money urgently. He said the 
problems hed experienced had been very stressful and taken up a lot of unnecessary 
wasted time. He wanted NS&I to resolve their online problems and the telephone delays and 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
NS&I wrote to Mr B in February 2021. They said there were situations which may have 
caused the online problems Mr B experienced relating to software and ad blockers used on 
devices. They made suggestions about how these could be avoided. They also said funds 
could be withdrawn by completing forms available on their website. They apologised for the 
delays hed experienced using their helplines and paid £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr B wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred his complaint to this service. He said 
the problems had caused him distress and financial hardship resulting in significant health 
problems. He calculated that NS&I should pay compensation of £7,800. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think NS&I had treated Mr B unfairly, so 
they didnt need to do anything more. Mr B disagreed with our investigators view and asked 
for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do sympathise with Mr Bs experiences with NS&I. I can see how the repeated problems he 
experienced with their online service could be very frustrating. Particularly where 
transactions might be time critical. I also appreciate that long periods waiting on the 
telephone to speak to NS&I might add to that frustration. So, in considering Mr Bs 
complaint, I needed to decide if NS&I did, at any time, treat him in a way which was either 
unfair or unreasonable.
In providing an online service for consumers to access their savings, NS&I have to consider 
a wide variety of software applications and systems which may be used to access their 
service. Many of these are regularly updated and amended by the provider. Because of this, 
consumers can sometimes experience problems when they try to access their accounts. But 
it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold NS&I responsible if any of these problems were as a 
direct result of changes and systems outside of their control.
I havent been provided with anything to suggest Mr Bs inability to access his saving online 
was as a direct result of something NS&I did wrong. Ive also seen that NS&I do provide 
alternative ways of accessing savings. In particular, by telephone or by downloading forms 
from their website for postal submission. So, I dont think Mr Bs online problems would 
mean there was no way to access his money.
Mr B used NS&Is telephone service to access funds. Ive listened to various call recordings 
provided from late September through to October 2020. NS&I helped Mr B complete a 
transfer of more than £32,000 to his nominated bank account. They also transferred savings 
from his investment bonds to premium bonds as requested. But Im aware Mr B said these 
calls followed various failed call attempts and long periods kept waiting on hold. 
Accepting the delays Mr B experienced, I dont think its unusual for call volumes to a 
business to fluctuate at any given time, and I wouldnt hold NS&I responsible when they do. 
They wouldnt have control over who chose to call them and when. When Mr B did speak to 
someone, they helped him. In particular, they also acknowledged his online problems and 
agreed to enter his new premium bonds in their November 2020 draw, which I think was a 
reasonable gesture in those circumstances. But I havent seen anything to suggest the call 
delays were as a result of anything NS&I did wrong.
NS&I acknowledged the call delays experienced by Mr B and they paid him £75 as a gesture 
of goodwill. But Mr B thought they should compensate him further. He calculated a figure of 
£7,800. He said much of this related to ill health resulting directly from his experience. But 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide anything to support his claim here. While Im sorry to hear 
Mr B experienced health difficulties, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold NS&I directly 
responsible here. The amount already paid by NS&I feels fair to me.
Mr B also wanted NS&I to remove, what he considered, misleading information about how 
funds are protected. Given his problems withdrawing funds, he thought they shouldve been 
paid to him by HM Treasury. Unlike a bank, NS&I deposits arent covered by the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). NS&I are part of the UK government, so 
savings are 100% backed by HM Treasury. But this would only be relevant if NS&I were to 
fail. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything that persuades me NS&I made mistakes here. Accepting 
the problems Mr B had with their online and telephone services, it isnt our role to ask NS&I 
to alter their procedures or processes or impose improvements on the level of service 
offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this 
case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr B was ultimately able to access his money and, I believe, has since moved all his savings 
away from NS&I. I also havent seen anything to suggest Mr B lost out financially and I dont 
believe NS&I made any errors or treated Mr B unfairly. So, while I realise Mr B will be 
disappointed, I shant be asking them to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman