DRN-3394743
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car acquired with finance from RCI Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2021 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with RCI.
Miss D experienced an issue with the stop/start function not working. She complained to the 
dealership and the car was returned in August 2021 for investigation. The dealership told 
Miss D that there was nothing wrong with the stop/start finance.
Miss D continued to experience the issue. In September 2021 the car lost power and a 
warning light illuminated. The car was returned to the dealership ad Miss D asked to reject it.
RCI issued a final response to Miss D in November 2021. It said it didnt agree that the car 
had a fault and asked her to collect it from the dealership.
Miss D was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
During the course of the investigation by this service, the car was independently inspected. 
The engineer found that the stop/start system failed to operate and that a priority battery 
charge message was displayed on the dashboard.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that the start/stop was a fault 
which had been present from the point of supply. The investigator said that the dealership 
had already had an opportunity to repair the fault, so it was reasonable to ask RCI to allow 
Miss D to reject the car.
RCI didnt agree. It said that no fault had been evidence with the stop/start. It acknowledged 
that there was a problem with the stop/start but said this was due to low battery caused by 
lack of use of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their 
general state and condition, as well as other thigs including fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Miss D was brand new, so Id expect it to be of a very high quality and to 
remain free from minor defects for a  reasonable period of time.
Miss D experienced an ongoing issue with the stop/start function within a short time of 
getting the car. She also experienced the car losing power and cutting out in September 
2021.
Ive reviewed the available evidence to determine whether the car has a fault. The car was 
returned to the dealership in August 2021 for a  stop/start issue. Theres no job card for this, 
but the dealership told Miss D that there was no fault with the stop/start.
The car was returned to the dealership again in September 2021 for issues with the 
stop/start. The job card states that the stop/start wasnt working and that the engine had cut 
out. The report states that no fault was found with the stop/start and that the fault codes 
indicated that the car had stalled, not cut out.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report dated February 2022. This states that during 
the road test, the stop start failed to operate and a priority battery charge message was 
displayed. The report concluded that the battery warning light could be due to the car not 
having been driven for some time, or it could be the fault for the stop start. The engineer 
recommended that the battery should be fully charged and checked for the correct voltage, 
and the battery replaced if required.
RCI has said that theres no evidence that the car has a fault. It relies on information 
provided by the manufacturer, which says that the priority battery charge message displays 
when the battery needs charging, and that when the battery is low, the cars internal systems 
will prioritise over functions like stop/start.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the stop start. This is 
evidenced by the engineers report, which found that the stop/start wasnt functioning. Im 
satisfied that the issue has been present since the point of supply. Miss Ds testimony 
supports this.
The independent inspection report doesnt conclude that the issue with the stop/start is 
caused by low battery. It suggests this as a possibility. But it also says that the low battery 
light might be as a result of a fault with the stop/start.
Theres nothing in the job card provided by the dealership to suggest that the battery was 
low. The car has been returned to the dealership twice with stop/start issues. If the battery 
was low, I would have expected the dealership to have identified this. On balance, I dont 
think the stop/start fault is due to a low battery. But even if a low battery is the cause, I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect a battery to be low and require replacement on a 
brand-new car.
RCI has said that the low battery is because the car hasnt been used enough. Theres no 
evidence to support this. The car was at the dealership for several weeks but prior to this 
Miss D was driving the car regularly.
Taking everything into account, and having regard to the relevant legislation which states 
that a car should be free from minor defects, Im persuaded that the issue with the stop/start 
means that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. There isnt enough evidence to persuade me 
that low battery is the cause. 
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, a business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault. 
Because the car has been returned to the dealership twice with the stop/start fault, and 
because the independent engineer found that the stop/start wasnt functioning, I dont think any further opportunity to repair should be given. RCI must allow Miss D to reject the car.
Its clear that Miss D has been caused inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car 
which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes had to return the car to the dealership more than 
once and hadnt been able to use the car since September 2021. I think it was reasonable 
for Miss D to stop using the car because she felt unsafe driving it. In the circumstances, I 
think its fair to ask RCI to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience, and to refund all 
payments made since September 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  RCI Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss D
Refund the deposit
Refund all payments made since September 2021
Refund all insurance payments made since September 2021
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman