DRN-4326054
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr A received around £28,000 into his Santander current account. Santander 
blocked the account and asked Mr A where hed got this money. They received a report that 
the money was the proceeds of fraud.
Mr A told Santander the money was from his cousin, to pay for two funerals. He was unable 
to evidence this and didnt want to talk about it further. Santander closed his account and 
registered a CIFAS marker.
In 2023, Mr A complained. He claimed his friend had hacked him, as his friend would be able 
to guess his password. He said hed been unaware of the credit, and first found out about it 
in Santanders final response in spring 2023. He claimed that Santander had never talked to 
him about the credit. He claimed that he never told Santander the money came from his 
cousin, that there was no funeral, and that someone must have impersonated him on the 
phone. He was unable to evidence any entitlement to the funds he received.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
appealed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Santander did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Santander received an official report that the money Mr A received came from fraud.
Mr A said he was hacked by his friend, and it wasnt him using his account. I can see that 
the device used to access the account was Mr As phone  the only registered device on the 
account, and the same one hed been using for a long time. The model of phone used 
matches the model of phone Mr A said he was using at the time. The phone number used is 
the same phone number Mr A used before this and still uses now. The IP address used is 
one which Mr A used for his genuine spending. There is no evidence of any hacking or 
unauthorised access of the account. And I note that in the days prior to this incident, this 
account received and paid on other fraudulent funds sent from Mr As other bank account, 
which Mr A previously confirmed hed sent himself. Im reasonably satisfied that the person 
accessing Mr As Santander account was either Mr A or someone hed given permission to.
Mr A has not been able to provide any evidence that he was entitled to the money he 
received.
Mr A says that he didnt tell Santander the money was from his cousin for a funeral, that that 
story was fictitious, and that he was unaware of the fraudulent credit until spring 2023. Ive 
listened to a recording of when Santander called him back in early 2022. The phone number 
on file was the same one Mr A uses now. The man who answered was able to pass security 
and be identified as Mr A, and his voice sounds like the same Mr A weve been speaking to. 
I find that this man was Mr A.
In that call, Mr A confirmed he knew about the £28,000 credit, adding that hed been unable 
to access it due to his account being blocked. He confirmed he had told the bank that the 
money was from his cousin. The staff member told him theyd found out that the money 
came from fraud, and they were closing Mr As account. Mr A accepted this and agreed hed 
withdraw his remaining funds from the branch, as he was actually at the branch at that 
moment. Mr A has confirmed to our service that it was indeed him who then withdrew his 
remaining funds from that branch at that time. So, contrary to Mr As latest testimony, he was 
aware of the credit at the time and did tell Santander the fictitious story.
Mr A provided Santander with a bank statement from the fraud victims account, in order to 
try to claim entitlement to the credit, despite now saying that he didnt know the victim. It is 
not likely or plausible that Mr A would have access to that statement if he was uninvolved 
with the fraud and if the credit was made into his account without his knowledge or consent.
I also note that at about the same time, Mr A received a large credit of roughly the same 
amount into his other bank account. This was then paid on using the same phone and IP 
address which Mr A used to access his Santander account. And Mr A admitted that it was 
him who paid that other money on. Its not likely or plausible to be a coincidence that Mr A 
received two very large, very similar sets of fraudulent funds at about the same time.
Im afraid that Mr As testimony has been notably inconsistent. As I explored above, hes 
given conflicting testimony about where the money came from, who was accessing his 
account, and whether he was aware of the credit at the time. Mr A also claimed that he 
never spoke to Santander about this at the time, but I can see he spoke to them about this a 
number of times. And he said he was abroad and so couldnt have been involved  but this 
incident actually happened the week after Mr A returned from abroad.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which makes it seem unlikely or implausible that Mr A 
knowingly received the proceeds of fraud.In summary, Mr A received funds which were confirmed as being fraudulent. Im satisfied 
that Mr A authorised the access of his account, and that he spoke to Santander at the time 
and claimed to be entitled to the money. Hes not been able to evidence any entitlement to 
the money, and has since confirmed that the story he told Santander was actually fictitious. 
He had access to the fraud victims bank statement despite claiming to be uninvolved with 
the fraud. Hes admitted to receiving and paying on other fraudulent funds of a similar 
amount at about the same time in his other account. And his testimony has been 
inconsistent, and at times clearly untrue.
So I find its fair that Santander registered the appropriate marker with CIFAS. It follows that 
it was also fair they closed Mr As accounts, which they were allowed to do under the terms. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr A to 
receive. But given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman