DRN-3368844
The complaint
Ms T complains about the way JD Williams & Company Limited handled her catalogue 
shopping accounts.
What happened
Ms T had catalogue shopping accounts with JD Williams. 
Due to financial difficulties, Ms T entered a payment arrangement plan with the 
business. 
In February 2020, Ms T asked for the plan to be removed. JD Williams arranged for 
this to happen but didnt update her credit file at the time. 
In April 2021, Ms T contacted JD Williams to complain about her credit file having not 
been updated. As a result, her accounts showed her being significantly over her 
credit limit. Ms T added that an application for credit had been declined due to the 
business error.
Following Ms Ts complaint, JD Williams updated her credit file. It partially upheld her 
complaint saying that whilst it had removed her payment plan as requested, it hadnt 
updated her credit file as it should have. It offered £50 compensation to reflect the 
difficulties this had caused.
Ms T remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered it. He didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst he 
acknowledged that JD Williams had made an error, he hadnt seen enough evidence 
to persuade him it was responsible for Ms Ts having been declined credit. He 
thought £50 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms T remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. Ms Ts position is that 
JD Williams error  namely not updating her credit file - has caused her distress and 
inconvenience beyond the compensation offered. She says shes been refused credit as a 
result. 
Its not in dispute that JD Williams didnt update Ms Ts credit file when it removed the 
payment plan. I understand Ms Ts frustration at having found this out almost a year later 
after the request was made  and it was no doubt an inconvenience having to contact the 
business to get this sorted. But I can see that when it was made aware of its mistake,        
JD Williams took action to resolve it promptly. It has explained that any delay after this was 
attributable to the credit file company updating its records. So, Im satisfied the 
inconvenience was therefore, limited to a relatively short period of time.
Ive thought about Ms Ts point about having been refused credit because of JD Williams 
error. What I must keep in mind though is that credit can be declined for various reasons. 
Without evidence which persuades me the credit was declined solely due to JD Williams 
error, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold it accountable for this and so, I wont be asking 
it to pay more compensation.
Ms T has said she asked to leave the plan sooner having realised she was still paying 
interest. I appreciate Ms T was going through a particularly worrying time when she entered 
the payment plan and why  as she says  she couldnt keep records of calls. But I can only 
decide a case on the evidence Im presented, and from what Ive seen the first record of            
Ms T asking for the plan to be removed was in February 2020  which is when it was 
actioned by JD Williams. 
On balance, Im satisfied £50 compensation offered by JD Williams was reasonable. I know 
my decision will disappoint Ms T but I hope, for the reasons set out above, she understands 
why I havent upheld this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman