DRN-4322349
The complaint
Mr W complains about a defaulted account showing on his credit file, which he believes 
Experian Limited (Experian) should be reporting as closed. 
What happened
Mr W held an account that was sold to a debt purchaser, which Ill refer to as Company A, 
which he says is now closed. He complained to Experian about the account incorrectly 
showing in a defaulted status on his credit report. He asked Experian to amend the account 
status to closed and pay him compensation for the harm and distress caused to him. 
In its final response, Experian said the information recorded is provided by third parties, and 
it hadnt received anything from Company A confirming the account should be displayed as 
closed. Experian raised a dispute and explained to Mr W that it cannot make any 
amendments to his report unless it receives permission to do so by Company A.
 
Unhappy with Experians response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed matters and concluded that Experian was not responsible for the 
information displayed and had met its obligations by raising the dispute with Company A.
 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings. As no agreement has been reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant industry rules 
and guidance, and what would be considered as good industry practice.
Im aware Mr W has also raised a complaint with Company A about this issue. To clarify, I 
will only be addressing Experians role in the matter in this decision.
 
The information held by Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) is provided by sources such as 
financial businesses, local authorities and utility companies, who are the owners of the data. 
Experian is only able to display the information it is provided with by the data owners, so isnt 
responsible if there are any inaccuracies in the data its given. 
However, CRAs are expected to take reasonable measures to ensure the information that is 
reported by lenders via their credit files is accurate. So, Id expect Experian to raise a dispute 
with the data owner, if notified of a possible inaccuracy.
 
Experian can only amend information it holds if the data owner confirms the information is 
wrong. If the data owner says the information is accurate and does not give permission for it 
to be amended, Experian cannot change it. 
In Mr Ws case, Experian has shown that it did raise a dispute with Company A, and it didnt 
agree for the data to be changed. Company As response has been shared with Mr W, which 
confirmed the account defaulted in 2020 and it is required to continue reporting the original 
default.
Because of this I cant say that Experian has acted unfairly by continuing to display the 
information it has been provided. 
It may also be helpful to note that settling a defaulted account doesnt mean the default 
recorded prior to it being settled will no longer be displayed. The information about a default 
will stay on a credit file for six years from the date the account defaulted, regardless of if the 
account is later settled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bastin
Ombudsman