DRN-4482960
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) handled a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage caused by an escape of water.
References to UIA include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In July 2022 there was an escape of water at Mrs Ks property from an integrated washing 
machine, causing damage to the kitchen floor and the area around. Mrs K contacted UIA to 
tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. UIA appointed a firm (T) to manage the claim, 
who in turn appointed a contractor (RF) to assess the damage and carry out the repair work.
A plumber disconnected the kitchen appliances, including the washing machine and 
adjoining units (October 2022). Shortly after, RF arrived to begin taking up the damaged 
kitchen floor. However, removing the floor tiles revealed the damage was more extensive 
than previously thought, so RF covered the floor with a temporary covering and the plumber 
returned to re-connect the washing machine and dishwasher to enable them to be used. 
T then appointed  further contractor (R) to assess the damage. When they inspected the 
damage, R said the kitchen would need to be stripped out and the area dried. UIA agreed 
with Mrs K she would move into alternative accommodation while the repair work was 
carried out. Mrs K moved out in early November, expecting to move back to her property 
before Christmas. R started work a couple of days after Mrs K moved out, stripping out the 
kitchen units and removing the floor. However, Mrs K was then told the repair work (to be 
carried out by RF) couldnt begin until February 2023. She was also told shed have to move 
out of the alternative accommodation, as UIA hadnt extended her stay, given the repair work 
couldnt begin until February.
There were also issues with the repair work at her property being arranged, with Mrs K 
saying RF didnt keep to dates theyd said for work to be carried out. Mrs K moved back into 
her property at the beginning of March 2023. But various appliances hadnt been connected 
and others in place but not integrated. There were issues with flooring, a blind and lighting. 
RF returned later in March to address the issues, but Mrs K wasnt happy with the standard 
of work and there were still snagging issues. 
Unhappy at what happened and the outstanding issues with her kitchen, Mrs K complained 
to this Service in May 2023. She wanted a different contractor to finish the work and fix the 
outstanding issues, as she didnt have confidence in RF. The repair work was originally 
scheduled to take six weeks (to December 2022) but the work still wasnt fully completed, to 
a satisfactory standard, in May 2023. She also said her health had been affected from the 
time the repair work was taking, as she had a health condition and had needed to consult 
her GP in February 2023. She wanted compensation for the stress of what had happened.
As she complained in the first instance to this Service, not UIA, we asked UIA to consider 
the issues raised by Mrs K. UIA issued a final response in August 2023, agreeing Mrs Ks 
complaint was justified. They set out a summary of events, including the need for stripping 
out and drying of the kitchen and for Mrs K to move into alternative accommodation. The 
repair work started in February 2023 but there was consequential damage to kitchen 
worktops and electrics during the stripping out. Mrs K moved back into her property at the 
beginning of March, at which point there were a number of snagging and other issues. They 
accepted the need for a new cooker, as a goodwill gesture, due to the non-availability of a 
part required for it to operate. While they accepted responsibility for the snagging issues, 
they didnt think their actions (and of their agents) in instructing contractors had been 
unreasonable. In recognition of the issues in the service theyd provided and the delays (due 
to the snagging issues) UIA awarded Mrs K £300 in compensation.
Mrs K wasnt happy with UIAs response, saying they hadnt considered all the issues shed 
raised. Shed initially been told her move to alternative accommodation would be limited and 
she could return home before Christmas. In the event, she didnt move back until the 
beginning of March 2023. And when she did, not all the repair work was complete. While the 
majority of snagging issues had been resolved, there were still two outstanding (the oven, 
missing a protective seal that was no longer available, and kitchen lighting under the 
cupboards, which didnt work). UIA had made an offer for both issues.
As Mrs K wasnt happy with UIAs offer to resolve the complaint, our investigator then 
considered the complaint. 
He upheld the complaint. He didnt think UIA had considered all the delays in assessing the 
claim and carrying out the repair work, nor had UIA managed Mrs Ks expectations. While 
repair work began in October 2022, it was immediately put on hold because of the additional 
damage found. So, the repairs didnt actually begin until February 2023. The investigator 
thought this five-month delay could have been avoided had UIAs contractor completed a 
more thorough assessment on the damage when Mrs Ks property was first inspected in July 
2022. While Mrs K expected to move back into her property just before Christmas, it wasnt 
until the day before she was told the repairs wouldnt start until February 2023. Considering 
all the delays and issues with repairs that hadnt been fully completed, the investigator 
thought Mrs K should receive £500 in compensation, UIA should also arrange for the 
remaining repair work to be completed.
UIA disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they said the snagging issues had been resolved. They didnt 
think the cooker seal had been damaged as a consequence of the claim and subsequent 
repair work. Their offer of £412 (on an ex gratia basis) to deal with the lighting issue also 
included the cost of a basic repair to the cooker. They also disagreed about the level of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, saying they thought £500 wasnt warranted 
and their offer of £300 was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I recognise what Mrs K has told us about her medical condition and 
vulnerability, and the impact on her from what has happened in this case. I also appreciate 
having to move into alternative accommodation is inherently stressful, though necessary 
where essential facilities (in this case kitchen facilities) arent available because of the extent 
of repair and reinstatement work necessary to fix the damage. Ive borne this in mind when 
deciding, as is my role here, UIA have acted fairly towards Mrs K.
From what Ive seen of the case there are two principal issues to consider. First, the overall 
length of time taken to assess the claim and repair the damage to Mrs Ks property. She says she was initially told the repairs would take six weeks, so shed be back in her property 
before Christmas 2022. In the event the repairs didnt start until February 2023, and she 
didnt move back in until the beginning of March 2023. UIA dont think the timeline of events 
and their actions (and of their agents) in instructing contractors had been unreasonable.
Considering the first issue, I recognise that assessing damage, producing a detailed scope 
of work, appointing a contractor and arranging repairs necessarily takes time, and there are 
lead times for contractors to be engaged and start work. But considering the specific 
circumstances of the case, I think this period took longer than it should have done. 
I also recognise that additional damage can be identified when, as in this case, contractors 
started to take up the kitchen floor. However, Im not persuaded that a period of four months 
was reasonable. Particularly given what Mrs K has told us about not being aware of the 
delay to the start date for the repair work being pushed back to February 2023, until the day 
before she was due to move back into her property in December 2022. 
I think this, and the time taken for the repair work to start, would have caused her significant 
distress and inconvenience. Ill consider this wen thinking about what a fair and reasonable 
sum in compensation would be.
The second issue is, when Mrs K moved back in, snagging and other issues with the repair 
work carried out. Mrs K is unhappy at the number of such issues and the time taken to 
resolve. UIA accept there were delays, awarding £300 compensation. 
Ive considered the detail of the snagging issues and UIAs (their contractors) responses to 
those issues. While some level of snagging issues is to be expected given the extent of the 
repair and reinstatement work, I think it was greater than Mrs K would reasonably have 
expected. And UIA acknowledge this in their final response and offer of compensation. 
The two remaining issues concern Mrs Ks oven and under-cupboard lighting. While UIA 
dont accept these were the result of the leak and associate stripping out and reinstatement 
and repair work, theyve offered £412 as a goodwill gesture. Looking at the circumstances, I 
dont think this unreasonable.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about the issue of compensation. The approach we 
adopt as a Service to distress and inconvenience is set out on our website and Ive thought 
about this case in that context. Mrs K spent an additional two and a half months in 
alternative accommodation, as a result of the repair work not being completed in the time 
originally scheduled. And from the date the additional damage and need to revise the scope 
of the repairs needed  - when the contractors arrived in October to take up the kitchen floor  
to the date the repair work was rescheduled to start (February 2023) is a period of some four 
months (and five months to when Mrs K moved back into her property.
Thinking about these factors in the context of our approach and published guidelines as a 
Service, Ive concluded Mrs K suffered considerable distress, upset and worry and 
significant inconvenience and disruption. Over a period of many weeks and months. Ive also 
considered what shes told us about the impact on her health and wellbeing. Taking these 
into account, I think £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable
.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I require 
UIA (Insurance) Limited to:Pay Mrs K the £412 theyve offered in respect of the issues with her cooker and 
lighting.
Mrs K £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
UIA (Insurance) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs K accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman