DRN-4199029
The complaint
Mr J complains about how his insurer, Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven), handled 
a claim under his breakdown assistance policy. 
Any reference to Haven in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
Mr J had a breakdown assistance policy with Haven. In October 2022 Mr Js vehicle had a 
flat tyre so he called Haven. They arranged for a garage (L) to attend. But a locking wheel 
nut was damaged, so L then recovered Mr J and his vehicle to his home. Mr J contacted 
Haven the following day, saying L had damaged the wheel nut. Haven then arranged for the 
vehicle to be recovered by a separate firm (K). K took the vehicle to a local garage (A) for 
the tyre to be changed, remove the locking wheel nuts and replace them with standard ones 
(at a cost of £25 per wheel nut, a total of £100). A also replaced the flat tyre (£45). Mr J then 
went to a garage of the make of his vehicle to buy a replacement set of locking wheel nuts, 
at a cost of £23.75. 
Mr J complained to Haven about the damage to the locking wheel nut, the subsequent cost 
of replacing them and buying new locking wheel nuts. Haven contacted L, who said they 
didnt attempt to remove the tyre and had told Mr J the locking wheel nut was broken. So, 
they didnt accept responsibility for the damage. K said they only recovered the vehicle to A, 
didnt change the wheel or any other work. So they also denied liability for the damage.
In their final response, Haven didnt uphold the complaint and refused to cover the cost of 
replacing the locking wheel nuts. They said theyd considered the records from their Control 
Centre as well as the recovery operators (L and K), but there was insufficient evidence to 
establish their liability for the damage. They thought Ls denial of what Mr J said had 
happened was credible and supported by the evidence and the balance of probabilities. 
While they would reconsider the matter should Mr J provide further evidence to support his 
complaint, they considered the matter closed.
Mr J then complained to this service. He said Haven (L) damaged his locking wheel nut 
when they attended his vehicle, and they offered to take his car to a garage to have the 
damage repaired. The garage (A) told him to contact the dealer of the vehicle make to 
replace the locking wheel nuts. He said Haven had told him to invoice them and theyd pay 
for the replacement locking wheel nuts. Hed invoiced them but received no contact. When 
he did contact them, they said they had no record of his previous contact. Mr J wanted 
Haven to reimburse him for the cost of replacing the locking wheel nuts. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Haven hadnt acted fairly. Looking at the 
report from L when they attended Mr Js vehicle, there was no mention of the locking wheel 
nut being damaged. While L said theyd discussed the damaged locking wheel nut with Mr J 
when they attended, as this wasnt mentioned in their report, the investigator concluded they 
couldnt confidently say no damage to the locking wheel nut was caused by them. The report 
from K indicated they simply recovered Mr Js vehicle, they didnt attempt to remove the 
locking wheel nut. Based on these conclusions, the investigator thought (on the balance of 
probabilities) the most likely cause of the damage was by L attending the breakdown and 
attempting to remove the wheel. To put things right, the investigator thought Haven should 
cover the cost of the replacement locking wheel nuts (£123.75) with interest from the date 
payment was made. 
Haven disagreed with the investigators view. They said there was no evidence the damage 
to the locking wheel nut was caused by L and there was a signed Condition Report Form 
and signed Waiver where Mr J agreed that if there were any issues following the callout by 
L, they wouldnt be held liable. 
The investigator considered Havens response but maintained their view they hadnt acted 
fairly. They didnt think the Waiver and Condition Report Form were sufficient to prove the 
locking wheel nut wasnt damaged by L (that it was already damaged when L attended). Had 
the latter been the case, the investigator thought it would have been recorded by L.
Haven disagreed with the investigators further view and requested an Ombudsman review 
the complaint. They maintained the Waiver was a legal document that meant they (L) 
couldnt be held liable for any damage caused during the callout.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Haven has acted fairly towards Mr J.
The key issue in this complaint is whether the damage to the locking wheel nut (and the 
subsequent replacement) was the responsibility of Haven (through their agent, L). Mr J 
maintains it was, but Haven disagree. 
Ive looked at all the evidence provided by Mr J and Haven, including photographs of the 
wheel with the flat tyre and of the damaged locking wheel nut. Its clear from the latter and 
from what happened that the locking wheel nut was damaged and had to be replaced. It also 
seems all four locking wheel nuts had to be removed (for which Mr J was charged £25 for 
each nut, a total of £100) and he then bought a new set of locking wheel nuts (£23.75). 
Mr J also paid £45 for a replacement tyre. But as he had to replace the tyre in any event, I 
havent considered this cost any further.
So, the key issue is whether the locking wheel nut was damaged by L (as Mr J contends) or 
it wasnt (as Haven contend). While Mr J says it was L who damaged the wheel nut, Ive 
considered Ks role and actions. K say they simply recovered the vehicle at Havens request 
to A. They didnt change the wheel or carry out any other work, so they take no liability for 
the damage. Ks job report confirms recovery to A and theres ticked box to the statement 
No damage caused by K. The report is also signed by Mr J. 
Looking at Havens case file, theres a note of Mr J phoning them the morning after the 
incident to say L damaged the locking wheel nut and didnt change his tyre. The note goes 
on to say Havens call handler advised Mr J to look for a garage to change his tyre and that 
they (Haven) would recover the vehicle to that garage. Theres then a second breakdown job 
initiated by Haven (which was the recovery by K to A). 
Taking these points together with the fact K were simply recovering the vehicle to A, Im 
persuaded by their account.Turning to the role of L, in their response to our investigators view, Haven refer to the 
Waiver signed by Mr J. This includes the following statement thats ticked:
I am aware that indication of condition on this report form does not imply that no 
additional faults or marks exist at the time of acceptance by the service provider. If 
for any reason any damage/marks have been missed you will not hold this against 
me.
Looking at the wording, it appears to relate to any damage or marks that may have been 
present on the vehicle at the point at which the service provider (which would be L in this 
case) attends a callout. It doesnt actually refer to any damage that may have been caused 
by the service provider during the callout. So, I dont think the Waiver can be used to deny 
liability for any such damage.
Haven also refer to the Delivery Condition Report being signed by Mr J. This is a separate 
part of Ls report, where theres the following statement:
Customer accepted delivery in the same condition as recovery
However, while theres a box underneath the statement with the date, the separate box 
headed Name is blank. Whereas the section of the form above (Vehicle Condition Report) 
has Mr Js name against the Name box (and date and time filled in). But the form doesnt 
record any mention of wheel nut damage (the Vehicle Condition Report section includes a 
tick box option for Damaged Wheels, which isnt ticked).
Thinking about these points, if the locking wheel nut was already damaged when L attended, 
I would have expected the job report to reflect this in some way (which could have included 
ticking the Damaged Wheels box). Also, as L couldnt change the flat tyre (the reason Mr J 
called Haven) suggests that either the locking wheel nut was already damaged when L 
attended, or it was damaged when they tried to change the tyre. 
The Haven case file also records a note of Mr J saying L apologised for the damage to the 
locking wheel nut and recovered him (and his vehicle to his home).
Taking all these points together, on the balance of probabilities, Im more persuaded by Mr 
Js version of what happened. So, Ive concluded Haven havent acted fairly and reasonably 
in saying they cant be held responsible (or liable) for the damage to the wheel nut. And as 
Ive concluded the wording of the Waiver doesnt actually cover damage caused during a 
callout, Haven cant use that to deny responsibility (or liability). 
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what Haven should do to put thigs 
right. As Ive concluded the damage to the locking wheel nut was most probably caused by 
them (and/or L and K) then they should reimburse Mr J for the cost of replacing the 
damaged wheel nuts and fitting replacements (£123.75). As Mr J has incurred that cost, 
Haven should also pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Mr J incurred the cost 
to the date Haven reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to:  
reimburse Mr J for the cost of replacing the damaged wheel nuts and fitting 
replacements (£123.75).
As Mr J has incurred that cost, Haven Insurance Company Limited should also pay interest, 
at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Mr J incurred the cost to the date they reimburse him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman