DRN-2929351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R and Miss F complain about how Santander UK plc dealt with their application 
to take over Mrs Rs late mothers mortgage.
What happened
In 1990, Mrs Rs late mother, Mrs D, took out a mortgage with Alliance & Leicester, on an 
interest-only basis. In 2008, the mortgage was transferred to Abbey National, now 
Santander.
Mrs D died in 2019. Mrs R is the executor of her estate, and I understand she and her 
daughter are the beneficiaries. Mrs R and her husband, Mr R, live next-door to the 
mortgaged property. They decided to keep the house and asked Santander about taking the 
late Mrs Ds mortgage into their own names. The mortgage balance was around £126,000.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs R made a mortgage application, but Santander turned it down 
on affordability grounds. Mr and Mrs R then asked their daughter, Miss F, to join the 
mortgage. Miss F was already living in the property. She agreed, and Santander agreed to 
look at the application. 
Santander again declined the application, this time because it had concerns about Miss Fs 
decision to be party to the mortgage. It subsequently agreed to look again at the application 
if Miss F agreed to take legal advice. But it said it still wouldnt lend, because it had concerns 
about access to the mortgaged property  and it wouldnt grant a mortgage on Mr and Mrs 
Rs unencumbered property next door either. 
Mr and Mrs R and Miss F felt they had been treated very unfairly and caused a lot of distress 
at an already difficult time. They complained, and also pointed out that Santander had 
recorded multiple credit searches on their credit files. 
Santander said it wouldnt reconsider the application and it was right to have done credit 
searches before passing the application to its underwriters, but it would remove all the 
searches but one for each applicant. It also paid Mrs R £100 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience of multiple credit searches having been carried out.
Mr and Mrs R and Miss F didnt accept that and asked us to look into the complaint. Our 
investigator concluded that Santander had given proper consideration to the mortgage 
applications.
Mrs R disagreed. She said there were no access issues and she had confirmed that with the 
Land Registry  so Santander had relied on wrong information in making its decision. It had 
declined the application three times, for a different reason each time, and Mrs R thought it 
had been inconsistent and changed its criteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria and to decide for itself what level of risk 
its prepared to take in deciding whether to approve a mortgage application  and its under 
no obligation to provide a detailed explanation to an applicant if it turns down their 
application. Its full lending criteria are commercially sensitive.
I have to decide whether Santander dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs Rs and Miss Fs 
applications and gave them proper consideration. In the first instance, I think it was entitled 
to assess whether Mr and Mrs R met its affordability criteria. I also think it was reasonable to 
have asked questions about Miss Fs decision to join the mortgage; that was a precaution to 
protect both itself and Miss F.
The access issue is a key concern for Mrs R. She has asked why the mortgage was 
originally granted in 1990 if theres a problem with access, as nothing has changed. 
Importantly, though, something would have changed had Santander granted a mortgage on 
the property to Mr and Mrs R and Miss F. The owners of the late Mrs Ds property and the 
mortgagors would, if the mortgage had gone ahead, have been the freeholders of the 
adjoining house and shared driveway. For a mortgage lender, that is a very different 
proposition from a mortgage in Mrs Rs late mothers name. Besides that, lending criteria 
change over time. Santander had to take a view about whether it would be prepared to lend 
against this background, and it was entitled to decide that it wasnt. 
I can certainly see that Santanders decision has caused a good deal of upset to Mrs R in 
particular, and that the property holds sentimental value for the family. But, having carefully 
considered everything, including the relevant parts of Santanders lending policy, Im 
satisfied that Santander gave fair consideration to the applications and exercised its 
commercial discretion legitimately. I also find it dealt with the applications in the space of a 
few weeks  the matter didnt drag on unnecessarily.
I would expect credit searches to be done at a fairly early stage rather than at the end of an 
application, and I consider that altering Mr and Mrs Rs and Miss Fs credit files to reflect one 
credit search each in connection with this application is fair in the circumstances. Santander 
has paid £100 because it had made multiple credit searches unnecessarily, and I dont 
require it to do or pay any more than that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F, Mr R and 
Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman