DRN-4019235
The complaint
Mr E complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him a fixed sum loan agreement which he 
says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr E took out a loan agreement with Hitachi for £5,000 with Hitachi in March 2016. Mr E 
wanted to buy a car with the money. 
 
Mr E says that Hitachi shouldnt have lent to him because he was struggling with other debt. 
He thinks Hitachi was negligent in allowing him to take the loan and asks that Hitachi pay 
back all interest and charges on the loan.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. Mr E disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr E made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
Hitachi needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Es income and expenditure. There is no set list of checks a 
business has to do. 
In Mr Es case, Hitachi has provided evidence of the checks it completed, and the 
information Mr E gave during his application. Mr E declared an annual salary of between 
£40-£50,000. It ran further checks to verify Mr Es net income at around £2,800 a month. It 
also checked Mr Es credit record where it found Mr E had a joint mortgage costing around 
£1,000 a month (which it assumed he paid £500 towards) and other unsecured debt totalling 
around £27,000, on which the repayments each month cost about £508. 
Hitachi modelled Mr Es essential expenditure using Office of National Statistics data and 
concluded that Mr E had around £1,665 in disposable income each month with which he 
could sustainably afford the repayments on his new loan, which were £172 a month. 
It also noted that Mr E was managing his other credit well, with no evidence of recent missed 
payments, arrears, defaults or CCJs
Mr E says the information relied upon by Hitachi was incorrect. He says the assessment of 
his income was too high. Hes provided bank statements to show his net income was closer 
to £2,380. And he says that he was solely responsible for all the household expenses, 
including the mortgage held jointly with his partner, as she wasnt working. 
It may well be that Mr Es expenses were higher than Hitachis modelling. However, that 
doesnt mean it didnt complete necessary and proportionate checks or that it did anything 
else wrong. Mr Es net income was lower than an income declaration of £40-50,000 would 
suggest; it equates to a gross salary of about £37,000 a year. Its possible that Mr E had 
deductions from his gross income, such as salary sacrifice schemes for childcare vouchers 
or a pension, which made his net income lower. I also note that he declared an income of 
£43,700 in another credit application made in the same month. So, I dont think Hitachi 
overestimated his income to such an extent that it should have been clear it wasnt realistic.
In relation to Mr Es essential expenditure, I think it was reasonable for Hitachi to rely on 
modelling based on Office of National Statistics data. The rules1 which relate to consumer 
credit state that a business may take into account statistical data unless it knows or has 
reasonable cause to suspect that the consumers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than that described in the data or that the data are unlikely to be 
reasonably representative of the consumers situation. In Mr Es case, while he had relatively 
high existing credit, he was earning above the national average and had no negative 
information on his credit file. So, I dont think Hitachi had any reason to suspect that Mr Es 
circumstances were significantly different to those it understood following the credit checks 
and modelling. 
Mr E separately explains that although he had a joint mortgage, he had been solely meeting 
the repayments as his partner was not working. Again, the rules2 state that where there is a 
reasonable expectation that a consumer will have responsibility to pay only a share or a part 
of a payment towards a contractual or statutory obligation then the business may, in 
appropriate cases, take this into account. I am satisfied that Hitachi were reasonable in 
apportioning only half of the mortgage repayment costs to Mr E in relation to his joint 
mortgage. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that Hitachi did necessary and proportionate checks 
before it lent to Mr E and I am also satisfied that it acted appropriately on the outcome of 
those checks. 
In conclusion, I do not think Hitachi acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr E and 
so I do not think Mr E lost out as a result of anything Hitachi did wrong. It follows that I do not 
think Hitachi needs to do anything further. 
1 CONC 5.2A.19
2 CONC 5.2A.18My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Es complaint. This means Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance, doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman