DRN-2393401
The complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of Mrs J. The complaint is in relation to Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifaxs decision to block Mrs Js account and the way they treated her during branch visits. 
Mr J says this caused distress to Mrs J and would like compensation.
What happened
Mrs J held two instant access saver accounts with Halifax. In July 2019, Mrs J, her son and 
another carer went into a Halifax branch to attempt to make a transfer of around £87,000. 
Halifax didnt agree to this request and Mrs J and her carers were made to wait in branch for 
a long time until eventually the Police were called. Mrs J eventually left the branch without 
any further action; however, she couldnt make the transfers shed wanted to.
Halifax had blocked both Mrs Js accounts to carry out a full review of them in July 2019. A 
few months later, the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) opened an investigation into the 
management of Mrs Js finances. Because of this, Mrs Js accounts with Halifax remained 
blocked.
The OPGs investigation was completed in April 2020 and Halifax removed the blocks. As 
Mrs Js son had Lasting Power of Attorney, Halifax were happy for him to complete transfers 
on her behalf with identification in branch.
While the accounts were blocked, Mr J raised a complaint on behalf of Mrs J due to the 
block on the accounts and the service theyd received in branch. Halifax upheld the 
complaint in part  and offered £50 for some of the service issues, which Mr J rejected.
The investigator who looked at things thought Halifax had acted appropriately. She said they 
were entitled to block accounts and was satisfied theyd done so to protect Mrs Js money.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2020. In it I said;
The account reviews
Halifax, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax 
were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mrs Js accounts. Ive explained 
further below.
Halifax will often review accounts  its their duty to ensure accounts are being used in the 
way they should be and to protect the money which is held in them. This is both in the banks 
interest and under their duty to protect their customers money. Mrs Js account review was 
triggered in July 2019 and Halifax decided to suspend the account to allow them to carry out 
a full review into both of Mrs Js accounts. While I appreciate Mr J would like to know why 
Halifax chose to suspend Mrs Js accounts in July 2019, this isnt information Im able to 
share with him. However, I would like to reassure Mrs J, and Mr J on her behalf, that Im 
satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Halifaxs actions were appropriate in the 
circumstances.
We wouldnt normally expect reviews to take around nine months to complete  and Im 
aware thats how long Mrs Js accounts were suspended for. However, during Halifaxs 
review, the OPG started their own investigation into Mrs Js finances. Because of this, 
Halifax were under a duty to keep Mrs Js accounts suspended to avoid any transfers being 
made into or out of them. So, while I recognise nine months is a long time for Mrs J to not 
have access to her money, I cant hold Halifax solely responsible for that. And thats 
because other investigations were taking place.
I appreciate this situation would have been difficult for Mrs J  and Mr J who was looking 
after her finances. Especially as Mr J has referred to the care costs and restraints Mrs J is 
under. But to uphold Mrs Js complaint, Id need to be satisfied Halifax acted unfairly when 
suspending the access to Mrs Js accounts. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
think they did. 
Once the OPG investigation was finalised, Mr J let Halifax know and sent them a copy of the 
letter which confirmed the OPG werent taking any further action. Im pleased to see Halifax 
removed the blocks from Mrs Js accounts a few days after receiving this confirmation. 
Because of that, Im satisfied Halifax didnt cause any undue delays. 
Branch visits
Im aware Mr J has raised concerns at the way Mrs J was treated in branch. This has also 
been escalated due to Mrs Js age, and her previous duty to the Country. I agree with Mr J 
that its reasonable to expect a certain level of service.
Mr J has commented on the time he and Mrs J were held in branch without a comfortable 
seat or drink. Its extremely difficult to make a finding on something which happened face-to-
face  especially when the accounts of both parties differ. While I dont doubt Mr Js 
expectations of what service his mother should receive are to a high standard, its not 
something I can fairly hold Halifax accountable for if they havent acted on these 
expectations. I say that because its not in my remit to tell a business what their processes 
should be, or what individual circumstances they should consider when providing a service 
to their customers. Ive noted Mr Js comments about Halifaxs treatment of their customers 
in general  but Im only considering the circumstances of Mrs Js complaint. I would hope 
that Halifax take on any feedback theyve received from Mr J and look at ways to improve 
the service they provide all their customers  and not just Mrs J. 
Because of the lack of evidence available as to what happened in branch and how Mrs J 
was treated, I cant safely conclude that Halifax acted inappropriately. And because of that, I 
cant fairly ask Halifax to do any more than theyve already done to try and put things right. 
Im aware theyve already offered some compensation which Mr J has rejected but its 
unlikely, based on the evidence I have, that Id ask them to pay anything more. Im sorry this 
wont be what Mrs J was hoping to hear.
Since the investigator considered this complaint, Im aware Mr J went into branch to make 
the transfers from his mothers accounts with his identification and Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPoA) documents as Halifax requested. The business apologised for the service Mr J 
received and explained there was a delay with their Power of Attorney handling team. While 
I appreciate Halifax have acknowledged Mr J could have received better service, I cant 
award compensation to Mr J as this complaint is in the name of Mrs Js. And therefore, I can 
only consider the upset caused to her.Overall
Overall, I know how frustrated and upset Mrs J and Mr J on her behalf will be with my 
decision. But I want to assure them both Ive looked at everything on file and while I havent 
been able to go into a lot of detail and reasons why, Im satisfied Halifax have acted 
appropriately. So, I dont think I can fairly ask them to do anything to put things right.
Halifax were concerned about Mrs Js welfare and financial affairs, so they put restrictions in 
place to protect her. They couldnt be satisfied fully until a the OPG finished their 
investigations. And I think that was appropriate in this situation.
I appreciate Mrs J would like Halifax to give her a full explanation why they decided to review 
her account initially and before the OPG started their investigations  but a bank isnt obliged 
to do that. However, Id like to reassure Mrs J that based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Halifax acted appropriately in the circumstances. Ive gone some way to explain 
that further above, and I hope my explanations have been helpful.
So I didnt think Halifax needed to do anything differently.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it.
Mr J responded on behalf of Mrs J. In summary he said;
Halifax blocked the account from July 2019 to December 2019 which was prior to the 
OPG investigation. 
Mrs Js complaint was more about the time taken and the way Mrs J and her family 
were treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr J and Mrs J find it unusual that Halifax blocked Mrs Js accounts in July 2019 
before the OPG started their investigations. However, Ive explained that a review was 
triggered on Mrs Js account in July 2019. Halifax are entitled to block accounts while they 
carry out their reviews and therefore, while I recognise the inconvenience this caused to Mrs 
J, I cant fairly say Halifax did anything wrong. Im sorry I cant share any more specific 
details with Mrs J around why the review was triggered but Id like to reassure her once 
again that Im satisfied Halifax acted appropriately in the circumstances.
I recognise the overall time this situation took, and I agree it was particularly long. However, 
it wouldnt be fair to hold Halifax responsible for that. I say that because, as Mrs J knows, the 
OPG started their own investigation which meant her account had to remain blocked. This 
would have been inconvenient for Mrs J, and Mr J, who managed her finances  but I can 
only uphold the complaint if Im satisfied Halifax did something wrong or caused delays. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that so I cant fairly ask them to do anything.
I appreciate how strongly Mr J on behalf of Mrs J feels about this. And Im sorry I havent 
been able to uphold the complaint in the way hed like me to. I dont doubt the expectations 
he holds as to how his mother should be treated are high  and I agree they should be due 
to her previous services. However, I havent seen enough evidence to warrant that Halifax 
treated Mrs J or her family members badly. And its not reasonable for me to take one partys 
version of events over the other  especially when they differ. I appreciate Mr J would 
appreciate an apology from Halifax, and I think it would be reasonable for Halifax to consider offering Mrs J and her family an apology for any upset they did cause, even if they didnt 
intend to. 
To conclude, I cant fairly say Halifax acted inappropriately in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And therefore, I wont be changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman