DRN-2620062
The complaint
Miss K complained that Skipton Building Society (SBS) failed to process her Fixed Rate ISA 
application and arrange for transfer of her money from her ISA with another provider.
What happened
Miss K completed a SBS Cash ISA Application and Transfer Form. She was applying for 
their 18 Month Fixed Rate Cash ISA (Issue 118) and wanted to transfer money held in an 
existing ISA with another provider. The form was returned to SBS by post on 22 April 2020.
On 4 May 2020, Miss K received a letter from SBS dated 1 May 2020. SBS said that they 
had been unable to proceed with her request because the form hadnt been signed and 
dated. Miss K signed and dated it and returned it to SBS on 6 May 2020 in the pre-paid 
envelope provided.
Around a week later, Miss K contacted her existing ISA provider to ask why there was a 
delay in transferring her money. They said that they hadnt had any contact from SBS.
Miss K received a letter from SBS dated 18 May which said that her new account was open. 
The letter also said that theyd been unable to request the ISA transfer because the Transfer 
Authority Form was incomplete.
On 3 June 2020, Miss K rang SBS for an update. They agreed to investigate and ring her 
back. SBS called Miss S back on 4 June 2020. They told her that she hadnt included the 
account details of the existing ISA on the transfer form. They also said that because money 
hadnt been deposited into her new account within 7 days of opening, it had now been 
closed.
Miss K made a complaint to SBS as she didnt think she had been told about the problem 
with the transfer form. She also said that she hadnt been told that the account would be 
closed within 7 days. SBS apologised if this hadnt been clear. They wrote to her on 5 June 
2020 and enclosed a cheque for £30 as compensation.
On 14 June 2020, Miss K wrote a further complaint to SBS. She wasnt happy with the 
previous outcome and wanted SBS to open the Fixed Rate ISA she had originally applied 
for.
 
SBS replied to Miss K on 24 June 2020. They apologised for their letter of 18 May 2020. 
They said that the ISA that Miss K applied for had been withdrawn from sale on 6 May 2020 
and the account shouldnt have been opened. So, SBS offered Miss K a further £50 
compensation for the inconvenience that this had caused. They also confirmed that they 
couldnt open the account.
Miss K was unhappy with this outcome and decided to bring her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Miss Ks complaint. She didnt 
think that SBS needed to do anything more here. So, Miss K asked that her complaint be 
referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original application form that Miss K sent to SBS says in bold typeface, If you do not 
understand any point or require assistance in completing this form, please call Skipton Direct 
on. In Section 6 in bold type, it says Please read the Agreement and Declarations in 
Section 7 carefully and SIGN at the end of the form. Section 9 is headed up Signatures 
and hasnt been signed or dated. I believe that the sections are clear and easy to read. So, I 
can understand why SBS wouldnt be able to open the account as requested.
Ive seen a copy of the transfer authority form sent by Miss K to SBS. In section 2 there are 
two boxes with the headings Existing ISA number and Existing Sort Code. Neither of 
these boxes have been completed. So, I can also understand why SBS wouldnt be able to 
arrange for the transfer of Miss Ks money from her existing ISA.
SBSs letter of 1 May 2020 was received by Miss K on 4 May 2020. It said that SBS were 
unable to proceed with the request because the application form wasnt signed and dated. 
As mentioned above, I am satisfied that this is right. But no reference is made to the transfer 
authority here. I think that SBS shouldve told Miss K this so that she couldve put it right.
 
SBSs letter to Miss K dated of 18 May 2020 said that her new account had been opened, 
but that it wouldnt be activated until funds had been credited. On the next page of the letter, 
it said that SBS were unable to request Miss Ks ISA transfer as the authority form was 
incomplete. It refers to an enclosed form which needs completing and returning in a prepaid 
envelope provided. It also provides contact details in the event of any questions.
Miss K called SBS about the account on 3 June 2020. They called her back on 4 June 2020, 
having investigated matters. This is when Miss K raised her complaint. SBS agreed that in 
their letter of 1 May 2020, they hadnt made it clear that the transfer authority hadnt been 
completed correctly. They said that would arrange for her to be compensated. They also told 
Miss K that the account had been closed because money hadnt been deposited within 7 
days of it being opened. 
Ive seen SBSs document called 18 Month Fixed Rate Cash ISA (Issue 18) Terms and 
Conditions. It says that For seven days from account opening you canmake a request for 
an ISA transfer in. After this your account may be closed for further deposits without notice. 
The transfer authority received by SBS from Miss K had not been fully completed. So, I 
understand why the transfer wasnt arranged. I can also see why the account would be 
closed after seven days because there was no balance.
 
I think it is right that SBS acknowledged their mistake in their letter of 1 May 2020. If there 
were other parts of the paperwork that hadnt been completed right, they shouldve told Miss 
K at the first opportunity. They followed this up with a letter dated 5 June 2020 and sent Miss 
K a cheque for £30 as compensation. I think that this is fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ks complained further to SBS in a letter dated 14 June 2020. She said that following 
SBSs letter of 1 May 2020, she signed the application form and returned it in the envelope 
provided on 6 May 2020. Miss K later told our investigator that she had visited the SBS 
branch in her lunch hour on 6 May 2020, where she signed the incomplete form. SBS have 
provided copies of their contact notes with Miss K and have confirmed that they have no 
record of her visiting the branch on that date. They also confirmed that they received the 
signed form by post on 11 May 2020.
 SBS wrote to Miss K on 24 June 2020 in response to her complaint letter. They told Miss K 
that the product that shed applied for was withdrawn from sale on 6 May 2020. But they 
later say that it was withdrawn on 6 June 2020. I have contacted SBS to clarify this point. 
This appears to be a typing error and they have confirmed that their Fixed Rate ISA (Issue 
118) was withdrawn from sale at 00:00 on 6 May 2020. This is not unusual as deposit takers, 
like SBS, often only have limited availability for these types of products. Once all the 
availability has been taken, the product is closed for new customers.
 
There is some confusion over whether Miss K posted the signed application form back to 
SBS or whether she visited a branch on 6 May 2020. But I dont think that this impacts upon 
my decision. Either way, the product had been closed for new applications before the signed 
form had been returned, so it was too late to open the account.
The question remains about why SBS wrote to Miss K on 18 May to confirm that the account 
was open when the product had been closed on 6 May. That said, that letter did say that the 
transfer authority was incomplete. I cant find that Miss K acted upon this before she 
contacted SBS by telephone on 3 June 2020.
SBS have offered Miss K further compensation of £50 due to any confusion caused by their 
letter of 18 May 2020. They agree that this shouldnt have been sent because the product 
was no longer available. This is unfortunate and clearly confused the situation. So, I agree 
that further compensation is due here. I think that the £50 offered is fair so I will not be 
asking them to increase this.
The main issue centres around the completion of the forms by Miss K. The application 
wasnt signed and dated, and the transfer form wasnt fully completed. I cant hold SBS 
responsible for this. Its unfortunate that SBS didnt address the issues clearly in their letters 
to Miss K, but the product was withdrawn on 6 May 2020 anyway. Miss K received SBSs 
letter on 4 May 2020. Had she contacted the branch immediately, the problems may have 
been resolved. Unfortunately, it was too late, and I cant hold SBS responsible for this either. 
So, I shant be asking SBS to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Skipton Building Society have already made offers totalling £80 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Skipton Building 
Society should pay £80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman