DRN-2043737
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS.
During negotiations with the dealership prior to purchasing the car, Mr K says he told the 
dealership he had a deposit of £2000 and could afford to pay a maximum of £350 per month. 
Mr K says the dealership told him that the lowest it could do was £370 per month but that if 
Mr K took out GAP, tyre and smart insurance, it could do everything for £400 per month.
Mr K refused this offer but eventually agreed to monthly payments of £395 and entered into 
the agreement.
In July 2020 Mr K received a statement from BMWFS which said hed only paid a deposit of 
£587. Concerned about the rest of his deposit, he contacted BMWFS, who advised him that 
the deposit figure was correct and that he should contact the dealership.
Mr K contacted the dealership, who advised him that the cost of the insurance products had 
been deducted from the deposit. Mr K was unhappy about this and said it wasnt what he 
had agreed at the point of supply. He felt that hed been misled about the terms of the 
agreement and said this meant that he would pay more interest over the term of the 
agreement because his deposit was less.
Mr K made a formal complaint to the dealership but says this was never responded to, so he 
brought his complaint to this service. This service decided that the complaint could be 
directed towards BMWFS.
BMWFS didnt issue a final response but it rejected the complaint and said it didnt finance 
insurance products, which was why the cost of insurance was deducted from Mr Ks deposit 
and shown on a separate invoice. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that the agreement had been misrepresented. 
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr K, I would need to be satisfied 
that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr K to enter into the 
agreement. So, Ive considered whether the dealership mis-advised Mr K about how his 
deposit would be used, and whether (if it did) this was one of the main factors in his decision 
to enter into the agreement.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr K and the dealership. I wasnt present, 
so I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, its necessary to look at the 
documents which came into existence at the time, as well as the wider circumstances of the 
case, to decide whats most likely to have happened.
I think its likely that there were discussions between Mr K and the dealership about the cost 
of financing the car. In particular, I think its likely that Mr K told the dealership that he 
wanted to keep his monthly payments at a certain level. These are discussions that Id 
expect most consumers to have when purchasing a car.
In relation to how the deposit would be used, Ive looked at the documents for each 
insurance product. There are three separate documents and each one sets out the price of 
the product. Each document also states that the price of the product must be paid for at the 
point of purchase.
I think its clear from these documents that the insurance products had to be paid for upfront 
 in other words, they couldnt be financed under the finance agreement.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and it clearly states that the deposit was £687. So, I 
think Mr K ought to have known that part of his deposit was being used to pay for the 
insurance products.
If Mr K hadnt been happy for his deposit to be used in this way, I would have expected him 
to either cancel the insurance products within the 30 days cooling off period or raise a query 
with the dealership before he signed the agreement.
Ive taken account of what Mr K has said about paying for the insurance products. I 
appreciate that there may have been other ways to purchase these products. But I still think 
its clear from the documents that the insurance products had to be paid for at the time of 
purchase. Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr K asked the dealership if he could pay for 
these products some other way. And its clear from the hire purchase agreement that the 
insurance products hadnt been financed. Because of this, I think Mr K was aware  or ought 
to have been aware  that part of his deposit had been used to pay for the insurance 
products.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the agreement was misrepresented to Mr K. So, I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman