DRN-2842497
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Skrill Limited has failed to help him when he fell victim to a fraud.  
What happened
On 15 January 2020, Mr E entered into an agreement with a third-party to purchase goods 
and sent payment for these goods via his Skrill account to the third-partys Skrill account. 
This was to the value of 2,267.00 United States Dollars (USD).
After sending payment, the third-party contacted Mr E and told him that theyd been asked to 
verify their Skrill account in order to access the funds, which they werent willing to do. They 
also informed him that this meant they werent able to send the products hed purchased. As 
a result, Mr E became suspicious of the seller and thought he might have been a victim of 
fraud.
Shortly after hed sent the funds to the beneficiary, Mr E contacted Skrill to reverse the 
payment. Skrill responded to Mr E and said that once payments had been made, they were 
irreversible and final.
Mr E complained to Skrill as he felt it could have done more to prevent the loss of funds. But 
Skrill responded saying that it hadnt made an error. It quoted its terms and conditions which 
sets outin summarythat all payments instructed are irreversible and final. It also 
highlighted that its not responsible for any statement made by a Skrill customer or 
intermediary as to the quality, safety or legality of the goods and services being provided.
Mr E brought his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy with Skrills position and 
thought that it should be held liable for the loss. An Investigator looked at the evidence 
provided by both parties and felt that Skrill had made an error.
In summary, the Investigator felt that Skrill had the opportunity to freeze the funds and 
prevent their loss once it was put on notice that theyd been obtained through fraud. They 
concluded this as evidence showed the funds remained in the beneficiary account at the 
time Skrill was informed of the fraud. And it should have stopped these from leaving the 
beneficiary account. As such, the Investigator recommended that Skrill repay the funds lost.
Skrill disagreed with the Investigators findings. It reiterated the terms and conditions 
associated with the account and pointed out that it fulfilled its obligations as a third-party 
payment service provider in carrying out its customers instruction.
As Skrill disagreed with the Investigators findings, the matter has now been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to reaching my findings, I approached Skrill and asked it to consider further information.
I highlighted that whilst it had reiterated its position on the accounts terms and conditions 
and its obligations to process payments, it hadnt responded to the point that itd failed to 
attempt to freeze the funds once it was put on notice regarding the fraud. 
In addition to this point I asked itif it was now willing to repay the fundsif it felt any 
interest should be paid for the deprivation of those funds or if compensation was warranted 
in the circumstances.
Skrill responded to this request stating that it was willing to pay 8% simple annual interest on 
the amount lost from the date it was put on notice to the date of settlement. It also agreed to 
pay 150 USD in compensation for any distress caused. It pointed out that it was offering this 
on a goodwill basis and not as an admission of error. It remained of the opinion that it wasnt 
responsible for the loss and wasnt willing to repay the amount transferred to the fraudster.
Mr E declined this offer as he remained of the view that he was owed the funds lost as well 
as the interest and compensation. So, Ill now consider all the evidence, including the 
additional information above, in coming to my findings.
Its generally accepted by both parties that Mr E authorised the transaction subject to this 
complaint. This means that Mr E instructed Skrill to make the payment in question and Skrill 
processed this payment in line with its obligations and terms and conditions. 
Skrill has highlighted that once its processed a payment, this is irreversible and final. Its 
highlighted the relevant terms and conditions which support this and has pointed out that 
Mr E agreed to these when opening the account. However, Skrills regulatory obligations 
dont end at the point it processes its customers payment instruction. 
Regulated firms like Skrill are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSAand its successor the FCAhave 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by businesses to counter financial 
crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements.  In July 2017 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through customer 
due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of 
the relationship).
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr E has set out he was purchasing goods from the 
beneficiary of the funds. After hed sent them, he was informed by the third-party seller that 
they were unable to access the funds as theyd been asked to verify their account and 
werent willing to do this. Mr E has confirmed that hes neither had the funds reimbursed nor 
received the goods hed purchased.
Skrill has provided information relating to the beneficiary account. This shows that the funds 
entered the account and were moved to another Skrill account the following day. This action 
would suggest that the story Mr E was being given by the beneficiary was false as they clearly did have access to their account. And as Skrill didnt question the beneficiary 
regarding the payment, or give them an opportunity to show theyd provided the services 
paid for, Im unable to reasonably conclude that Mr E received these goods. It therefore 
follows that its more likely than not that Mr E had been defrauded in the circumstances.
Mr E became suspicious of the beneficiary after the funds were transferred to their account 
and contacted Skrill shortly after making the payment. Skrill has provided evidence to 
support that the funds werent moved on from the beneficiary account until circa 23 hours 
after the payment was made to it and therefore circa 22 hours after Mr E had contacted Skrill 
and reported the fraud. Im also conscious that the funds were transferred on from the 
beneficiary account to another account held with Skrill.
Taking the above into consideration, I find that Skrill had a reasonable opportunity to deal 
with Mr Es claim and, at the very least, freeze the funds in the beneficiary account pending 
an investigation. This would have prevented Mr Es funds being transferred on and lost. It 
also would have provided the opportunity for both parties to make representations regarding 
their entitlement to the funds. However, as this wasnt done, Ive gone on to consider how 
such an investigation would likely have concluded had it been carried out.
As Ive already highlighted above, its more likely than not that Mr E was being defrauded. 
While there wasnt enough time at the point Mr E had contacted Skrill to know if hed been 
sent the good paid foras hed only just sent the moneythere were other red flags that 
would have provided enough suspicion regarding the beneficiary account holders intention. 
The beneficiary had informed Mr E that he was unable to access his account due to being 
asked for verification to access it. And he informed Mr E that he was unwilling to do this. 
Having looked at the evidence provided by Skrill, the beneficiary was using the account and 
was able to transfer the funds from it after the payment was made. So, this was clearly an 
untruth he was telling Mr E and makes it more likely than not that he had no intention to pay 
the money back to him or provide the goods sold.
The funds have been transferred out of the account to an unknown third-party account. Mr E 
has also told our service that hes still not received the goods paid for. And as the beneficiary 
wasnt contacted to prove to the contrary, its reasonable to conclude that he didnt.  
For the above reasons, I find that had Skrill carried out the above actions, it likely would 
have concluded that Mr E had been the victim of a fraud and returned the funds to his 
account.
Skrill has provided further consideration after the Investigators view that Mr E should be 
held liable for the loss as he breached the terms and conditions by engaging in 
cryptocurrency transactions; which is specifically forbidden within the terms of his account. 
Although Ive seen no evidence to support the fact that the payment was for cryptocurrency, 
even if I was satisfied that the payment was for this, I dont think this goes far enough to 
explain why no action was taken to investigate the claim and prevent the loss of the funds. 
As the beneficiary account was held by Skrill, it had the ability to freeze them and ensure 
they werent forwarded on prior to further investigation. But as it didnt, they were eventually 
transferred out of the recipients account and lost.
Putting things right
As Skrill were able to prevent Mr Es losses, I find that it should reimburse this transaction.
As well as this, Mr E has now been deprived of these funds for the duration hes been without them. Mr E says that he intended to use the money to buy urgent medicine for one of 
his sick children. And as a result of the money lost, he had to seek credit to pay for hospital 
bills. 
As Mr E has been without this money since he raised his fraud claim, I find it reasonable that 
hes awarded 8% simple annual interest from the date he raised the claim to the date Skrill 
repays the funds lost.
In addition, Mr E has informed our service of the distress caused by the loss of this money. 
While I find Skrill has made an error in the circumstances of this complaint, I must also 
acknowledge that the situation was ultimately caused by the fraudster who cruelly deceived 
Mr E into sending the funds. 
I do however find that Skrills inaction to prevent the loss of the funds and settle the matter 
sooner has added to this distress. I also find that it likely compounded the sensitive and 
distressing situation Mr E was experiencing at the time with his child. Skrill has offered 150 
USD as a goodwill gesture of goodwill for this distress. I find this to be fair considering the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Skrill Limited to:
Compensate Mr E the 2,267.00 USD lost.
Pay 8% simple annual interest on this amount from the date of the fraud claim to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Mr E 150 USD for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman