DRN-4250656
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr R has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
What happened
Mr R had a travel insurance policy underwritten by IPA. He sadly passed away during his trip 
to France on 15 July 2022. His body was taken to a French funeral home, an embalming 
process took place, the coffin was sealed and arrangements were made for Mr R to be 
brought back to the UK. The initial flight was booked for 22 July but the flight operator hadnt 
reserved the booking and so the next available flight was booked for 26 July.
A claim was made to IPA who appointed agents to deal with the repatriation. 
Mr Rs coffin was transported from France and arrived in the UK on 26 July. It remained 
sealed until 5 August at the direction of the Coroner. But when the coffin was opened, the 
body was found in a poor condition and immediate cremation was necessary. 
The estate complained to IPA but it explained it had no control over the French authorities or 
the embalming processes. 
Unhappy, the estate referred its complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think IPA were responsible for any delays or poor service. 
The estate disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
IPA should have done more to challenge the flight operator 
IPA should have managed and challenged the embalming process which took place 
in France
IPA can further investigate and should be asking questions on behalf of the estate 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think IPA has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly.
Our investigator has already set out the full background and facts of this case so I wont 
repeat everything here. Instead, I will focus on what I consider to be key to my decision:
16 July 2022 - Mr R was taken to a French funeral home. An embalming certificate 
dated the same day confirms the body had been embalmed. IPA were not 
responsible for this. On the same day, IPA appointed an agent in France to arrange 
the repatriation. The agent was not involved in or responsible for the embalming 
process. 
20 July  the agent collected Mr Rs sealed coffin in a refrigerated transporter ready 
for a flight on 22 July. The booking hadnt been reserved by the flight operator and so 
the next available flight was booked for 26 July. 
27 July  the agent collected Mr Rs coffin and transferred it to the family appointed 
funeral directors on 28 July.
Having considered the above, I havent identified any failings in the way IPA dealt with the 
repatriation. Im further satisfied IPA investigated the matter adequately and sought to obtain 
answers for the estate in relation to the timeline and the procedures used. 
IPA cannot be held responsible for the actions of third parties and Im satisfied it appointed 
agents to manage the repatriation as quickly as possible. 
As the embalming process and the sealing of the coffin was done by a third party, IPA and 
its agents cannot fairly be held responsible for the consequences. The flight operator made a 
mistake but I havent identified any failings on IPAs part. So I dont hold it responsible for the 
delay in the repatriation. 
Overall, I think IPA acted reasonably. 
Im really sorry to hear of the familys loss and the situation they found themselves in. And I 
know my decision will come as a disappointment. I can understand why the estate wants 
answers and feels IPA should have done more. But I cant reasonably hold IPA responsible 
for the embalming process or the delay in the flight. IPA did what it was expected to do. 
The estate may want to raise complaints directly with the third parties responsible for the 
flight delay and the embalming process.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman