DRN-3938176
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt carry out an 
annual service on her boiler under her home emergency policy.
Mrs B is represented on this case by Mr B, who I will sometimes refer to as well.
What happened
Mrs B complained to British Gas that an annual service hadnt been carried out, which she 
was entitled to under her HomeCare policy. British Gas investigated and provided the details 
of the date on which the appointment had been made and the date the annual service had 
been carried out. It also provided the evidence it held of the annual service being carried out.
When Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said the evidence provided by British Gas, including the readings taken from the appliance, 
were persuasive that the annual service had taken place.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
From what Ive seen, Mrs B made an appointment for the boiler to be serviced. Im aware 
that when British Gas replied to the complaint, it said the appointment had been made 
online. Mr B has consistently said this wasnt the case. As Mr B is now aware, looking at 
British Gass records, this showed that the appointment wasnt made online but that the way 
it was put on the system meant it showed as having been arranged in that way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think the evidence shows that Mrs B booked an annual service. Although I 
can understand that British Gas saying it was booked online when it wasnt might have 
caused Mrs B or Mr B confusion or doubt, this doesnt change my view on whether the 
appointment itself was booked.
Ive then looked at the annual service visit. Ive seen the records from the annual service 
visit. Ive seen evidence of the name of the engineer, the date and time of the visit and the 
appliance readings. 
Im aware Mr B has questioned whether the readings could have been taken from an 
appliance at another address. I havent seen anything that causes me to think this was the 
case. Mr B also said the tracking information from the engineers vehicle should be checked. 
Even if this data existed, this would only show whether the vehicle was in the vicinity of the 
address. It wouldnt show whether the annual service took place. I also think I have enough 
evidence to make a reasonable and fair decision. Based on all the evidence Ive considered, 
I think its more likely than not that the annual service was booked and took place. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman