DRN-2374858
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay him directly an
amount it refunded to his credit card for interest, fees and charges that had been applied. He
also complains about the support Halifax gave him while he was experiencing financial
difficulties, and about the way a representative spoke to him in a phone call during this time.
What happened
Mr D had a balance on his credit card with Halifax which was discharged under his Debt
Relief Order (DRO), the moratorium period of which ended in March 2017. The credit card
debt was shown as satisfied from that date.
But in March 2019, Halifax wrote to Mr D to say that it had conducted a review of its handling
of accounts that had evidence of arrears. And it felt that, between December 2015 and May
2016, it hadnt always taken the appropriate course of action in dealing with Mr Ds account.
So it apologised and said it would be adjusting the final balance on his account by £155.80
which represented the interest; fees and charges added to his account during that period.
But Mr D said that, as the account had a nil balance, this amount should be paid directly to
him. He also complained about the lack of help Halifax had given him and the tone of a
conversation he had with a Halifax representative at the time, and that hed had to make a
payment to his account that he couldnt afford.
Halifax said this amount had been part of the original debt, and it was within its rights to use
it to reduce the amount it had written off. It was unable to retrieve the recording of the call
Mr D had talked about but apologised that he had felt the representative had been brash and
had taken a bullish tone. It paid Mr D £75 in compensation for this.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. This
was because he said the £155.80 wouldnt have been money Mr D wouldve actually
received if the correct level of interest, fees and charges had been applied before Mr Ds
account was closed. He said that instead, it wouldve reduced the amount that Mr D owed,
so it wouldnt have made a material difference to his current situation.
The investigator said that, although Halifax couldnt be sure of what was said to Mr D in the
call in December 2015, it had accepted the possibility that it may have provided a poor level
of customer service. Given the limited evidence, the investigator thought the £75 Halifax had
paid to Mr D was a fair and reasonable approach to take.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He
felt the principal facts had been overlooked, as his credit card account had been deemed as
settled with a nil balance owing. He said the refund would put his account in a credit
balance. He said it had taken Halifax several years to address this issue, and it was now
after the moratorium period of the DRO so it was not in a lawful position to recover these
funds.
Mr D feels that Halifax was the primary contributing factor that led to his insolvency; and this
has had a negative impact on both himself and his family. Mr D said Halifax had been
difficult to deal with through his period of financial hardship. He said the compensation
amount of £75 had been paid into his current account, which he had now been blocked from
accessing too.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in October 2020. In summary, I considered 
that Halifaxs payment to Mr D of £75 was fair. 
I addressed the two main points of the complaint as I saw them.
The fees; interest and charges on the credit card balance
I said that Mr Ds credit card debt with Halifax was part of his DRO and his debt was 
discharged after one year in March 2017. So when Halifaxs investigation found that fees; 
charges and interest had been wrongly applied to the debt whilst it was open; there was no 
longer a debt for any removal of these to be off-set against.
At the time of Mr Ds DRO, he had no way of knowing that this amount had been wrongly
applied. And Halifax didnt become aware of it until it conducted its investigation.
However, the addition of these fees, charges and interest meant that the amount of the debt
with Halifax that was set out in Mr Ds DRO was overstated. Had this been discovered
earlier, then it wouldve reduced the amount of the debt Mr D owed, his liability for which was
then discharged.
The amount was made up of interest; fees and charges applied to Mr Ds credit card
balance. I said this didnt mean that Mr D paid this money out or that he paid too much, as 
he still had a balance outstanding, and would have even if this particular amount of interest;
fees and charges hadnt been applied. Instead, it meant that Mr D owed more to Halifax than
he would have had the amount not been added to his credit card balance. But the amount
that he did owe was discharged under the DRO.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think Halifax should be required to refund this amount
to Mr D. Although I understood the point Mr D made that the adjusted amount was applied
to a debt he no longer had a liability for, I didnt think this meant that it should be paid directly
to him when it was an amount that had been incorrectly included in the stated total of the
debt that was discharged.
I said I appreciated that Mr D feels that as a separate business, which was also one of his 
creditors under the DRO, refunded an amount to him from a complaint about Personal 
Protection Insurance (PPI), then Halifax should also pay him the refund. However, PPI is an 
additional insurance on a credit product which the customer pays for separately to the cost 
of having that credit. So this is very different to the interest and fees applied to a credit card 
balance.The lack of support and service issues
I said I could see from Halifaxs contact notes for Mr Ds account that he spoke with a 
representative in December 2015. Mr D told us he felt the representative was aggressive 
and that this conversation left him feeling pressured into making a payment towards his 
credit card that he couldnt afford. He said he found Halifax difficult to deal with when it was 
told about the financial hardship he was experiencing.
Unfortunately, Halifax said that although it was able to find the call Mr D had referred to,
the call recording is inaccessible to listen to. So I reviewed the notes of this call which
suggested that Mr D was over his credit limit at the time. A repayment plan was discussed, 
but Mr D had no income. He was unable to make the minimum payment but could pay the 
over limit amount. The notes suggested that Mr D still wanted to be able to use the card and 
was told that it was important to get his account in order to avoid a default.
So although I recognised how Mr D was left feeling through this period, and that it would
understandably have been a difficult and stressful time for him, because of the passage of
time, there was limited information still available about the arrangements or communications
between him and Halifax.
So I felt it was difficult for me to say with any certainty that it could have provided him with 
more help or responded more positively or sympathetically. However, in refunding a 
proportion of interest, fees and charges, Halifax acknowledged that it hadnt always taken 
the appropriate action when Mr D was experiencing financial difficulties such as by 
suspending or freezing these. So although I didnt consider that Mr D should receive a 
refund of the adjusted amount directly for the reasons I set out, the adjustment would put 
Mr Ds account back into the position that he wouldve been in had those fees, charges and 
interest not been applied.
Halifax acknowledged that Mr D may have received a poor level of customer service,
and it paid £75 into his current account to recognise this. In the circumstances, I thought that 
represented a fair resolution along with its apology for how Mr D was left feeling.
Halifax confirmed that Mr Ds current account wasnt showing as closed and that he should
be able to access the money he has in it. However, Mr D told us that his access to this
account was blocked, and so he wasnt able to withdraw the compensation payment paid 
into it. I asked that Halifax look into this matter to make sure that Mr D has access to this 
money.
The responses
Halifax didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr D responded and said that he was willing to accept my findings in response of the issue 
of the withheld funds in his current account, although he didnt feel that Halifax not producing 
the evidence of the phone call formed any part of the resolution of that point.
However, Mr D said that I had overlooked a straightforward decision based on law in relation 
to sections s251g (2) and s51i of the Insolvency Act 1986. He said that decisions based on 
the law should logically override individual opinions. He questioned whether I found it 
acceptable for an institution to reclaim a settled debt two years post moratorium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so, I have regard to the relevant laws, codes and good practice. My decision is 
based upon the facts and evidence that have been presented, and I have fully reviewed 
these for Mr Ds complaint, and this includes his submission about Halifaxs actions in 
relation to the provisions of the Insolvency Act 1986. 
And I do appreciate the point Mr D has made. However, in the particular circumstances here, 
I think that rather than trying to recover or reclaim a settled debt, Halifax has found that the 
amount of the debt it claimed as a creditor was overstated. Essentially, Mr Ds DRO 
recorded that he owed more to Halifax than he actually did, because of interest; fees and 
charges that had been added to the capital balance. 
The actions it has taken are to correct that latterly discovered error by reducing the debt 
amount. Had this error been discovered at the time, then it would have reduced the amount 
of debt Mr D owed Halifax - it wouldnt have been money directly paid out to Mr D. As I said 
in my provisional decision, this wasnt money that Mr D had paid incorrectly and so wouldve 
been refunded to him  it was more that interest; fees and charges had been incorrectly 
added to his balance, increasing the amount he owed. He still would have had an 
outstanding balance had they not been included. And that balance has been discharged 
under the DRO.
Its because of this that my findings remain that I dont consider Halifax should be required to 
pay Mr D the £155.80 his debt to Halifax was overstated by. 
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already paid Mr D £75 to 
recognise that it may have provided a poor level of customer service and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. Halifax should ensure that Mr D can access this payment which 
was made into his current account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman