DRN-4379902
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the service provided by Lloyds Bank General Insurance
Limited (Lloyds) under her home insurance policy after her home was flooded.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Lloyds includes its agents, representatives and
contractors in this decision letter. Also Mrs W includes submissions made by her son on her
behalf.
What happened
Mrs Ws home suffered severe flooding and damage at the end of December 2022. Mrs Ws
basement flat and contents were submerged in water. This was caused by a blocked and
overflowing culvert in an adjacent field, allowing a large volume of water to enter the property
following collapse of a garden wall. Mrs W reported the matter to Lloyds who were her
insurers at the relevant time.
Mrs W was unhappy about the delays in processing the claim and what she considered to be
its mishandling. She said that she and her sons had effectively been homeless, with a delay
in Lloyds trying to arrange alternative accommodation. Mrs W was looking for the claim to be
settled and compensation to be paid for Lloyds delays and service issues. Mrs W said that
the uncertainty around the claim had caused a severe impact on her health and wellbeing.
Mrs W lodged a complaint with Lloyds at the end of January 2023. It offered compensation
of £250 for certain service issues. Mrs W then referred her complaint to this service and
Lloyds subsequently increased its offer of compensation to £650.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She considered that the £650
compensation offered by Lloyds was fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience
caused by their poor handling of the claim. She made it clear however that she was only
investigating the claim up to the date of the final response letter in June 2023. The
investigator also noted that Lloyds were still investigating Mrs Ws complaint about the costs
shed incurred in relation to the claim.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied about the outcome of her complaint. The matter was therefore
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. I issued a provisional 
decision in September 2023. This explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Ws complaint 
as follows: - 
The key issue for me to consider here is whether Lloyds handled Mrs Ws insurance claim
and responded to her complaint in a fair and reasonable manner. Whilst Lloyds accepted
that it hadnt provided a satisfactory service in all respects, I dont consider that its response
has been adequate. I explain my provisional reasoning below. In reaching this provisional
decision, Ive considered the submissions made by each party as summarised below.
Mrs W described the distressing events which shed experienced at the end of December
2022. The entire property and contents rapidly became submerged under approximately five
feet of water. She said that her home was uninhabitable from this time. Mrs W and her sons
were therefore forced to move out. Mrs W said that she was initially offered alternative
accommodation whilst the claim was assessed. She said that the offer of alternative
accommodation was then withdrawn pending validation of the claim.
Mrs W didnt dispute the right for Lloyds to carry out its investigation into cover. However,
she said that reference to a first floor flat in the policy documents also came as a surprise to
her. She said that prior to Lloyds becoming the underwriter, there was no reference as to
what floor the property was on. She thought the most likely explanation was that a default or
assumed floor was added to the policy. As to the location of the property close to a
watercourse, she said she was only made aware of a previous culvert issue after the
incident when a neighbour mentioned it. Also, the culvert was an underground pipe. She
said it wouldnt be reasonable to expect someone to know there was a culvert there unless
they had an intricate knowledge of the groundwork of the site where this culvert is situated.
Mrs W said that Lloyds had repeatedly failed to explain the reason for the delay in the claims
process had been due to these issues, despite her asking several times.
By the time Mrs W contacted this service at the end of March 2023, she said that Lloyds
hadnt yet responded or made any attempt to resolve her complaint despite chasing for an
update on numerous occasions. Mrs W said that; The list of excuses is endless and
ultimately point to an overwhelmingly poor procedure and practice that is impacting peoples
lives at their most vulnerable. Mrs W therefore considered that Lloyds had breached its
obligations to her as a customer. As at the date of her complaint, Mrs W said that she and
her sons were homeless, she was sleeping on sofas and relying on the goodwill of family.
Mrs W said that Lloyds had also denied her repeated requests for accommodation whilst
carrying out its investigations. Following its admission of liability, she said it was still failing to
provide suitable accommodation. Mrs W said that Lloyds searched for properties using a
property service and sent options to Mrs W for her to apply to be a tenant with the usual
affordability and credit checks. In one instance, it sent details of a property where there was
a need to earn very large sums before shed be accepted as a tenant. It had also referred
properties that were already let by the time they were sent to Mrs W, ones that were
unfurnished and ones that were entirely unsuitable for her needs. Mrs W therefore didnt
agree that Lloyds had provided suitable property options. She said that a family member was
able to supply one of his rental properties for Mrs Ws sons to use, which resulted in a loss of
rental income to him of £2,250 per month.
Mrs W also stated that the uncertainty around the claims process had taken a severe toll on
her health and wellbeing. Mrs W didnt think that £650 was suitable compensation for the
distress caused by the unreasonable delays which Lloyds had admitted, or for the time spent
and inconvenience in pushing the claim forward. In conclusion she stated, Nearly 6 months
after the claim event, not a single penny has been paid to her, not a single bed provided to
lay on and not a single brick repaired - this cannot be acceptable. Finally, whilst Mrs W was
disappointed that the services investigation was limited to the period up until Lloyds final
response letter, she understood the reasons for this. In conclusion, Mrs W didnt think the
compensation offered and confirmed by the investigator for the period up to June 2023
reflected the level of distress or inconvenience caused. Mrs W said that throughout, Lloyds
had demonstrated no compassion or empathy for her situation as a vulnerable customer.
I now turn to Lloyds submissions regarding this matter. It said that it had initially instructed
its response and repair team to attend and provide a damage report and scope of works for
the required repairs. A loss adjuster was then appointed to attend and oversee the claim. It
then became clear that the whole property was beyond economical repair. It was then
treated as a major and complex loss by Lloyds and certain queries were raised. These were
responded to in the following month, however this led to further queries. It said that the
delays were due to underwriters necessary investigations and procedures. As for costs
which Mrs W said shed incurred, Lloyds said that this hadnt previously been raised, but it
said it would look to review that issue further. It acknowledged that during investigations,alternative accommodation couldve been arranged for Mrs W, on a without prejudice basis.
Lloyds sent its final response to the alternative accommodation aspect of the complaint in
June 2023. It accepted that Mrs W had queried whether alternative accommodation would
be provided. It said that instructions had been given for this to be sourced and that options
were found, however due to the unsuitability of the accommodation sourced, it agreed that
Mrs W could arrange her own alternative accommodation.
Finally, Lloyds said that the necessary reinstatement works to the property were due to
commence in June 2023 subject to asbestos investigations, (however its not known for the
purposes of the current complaint whether these works have yet been completed.) It offered
Mrs W a sincere apology for any inconvenience and distress that had been caused during
the claim. It accepted that shed not always been provided with the high level of service it
would expect and had therefore increased its offer of compensation from £250 to £650.
The starting point for consideration of insurance complaints of this nature are the terms and
conditions of the relevant policy. The policy has standard cover for loss or damage caused
by flooding incidents. With regard to alternative accommodation, it states that in relevant
circumstances, Lloyds would pay the additional cost of similar alternative accommodation for
the policyholder and their family, up to a particular limit.
I note that the claim was accepted three months after the flooding incident happened. During
this time, queries had been raised by Lloyds as Mrs Ws flat was noted as a first floor flat in
the policy records, whilst it was a basement flat. Lloyds also wanted clarification on whether
the property was within a certain distance of a culvert and whether the property had been
previously flooded. I consider that the queries were legitimate queries. The queries were
relatively limited however, and Mrs W provided straightforward responses to them. Shed
also been regularly chasing for updates at the relevant time.
On a provisional basis, I consider that this process could have been completed much more
quickly and Lloyds has itself accepted this point. Whilst the queries were legitimate so that
Lloyds could confirm that cover was in place, I consider that this process was unreasonably
delayed. This will inevitably have delayed the processing of the claim, the arrangement of
alternative accommodation and ultimately commencement of the work. In an already hugely
distressing situation, this delay will inevitably have greatly exacerbated the stress and
inconvenience suffered by Mrs W by several weeks.
I note that Lloyds also acknowledged that it could have arranged alternative accommodation
on a without prejudice basis whilst it was conducting its investigations. On a provisional
basis, I consider that Lloyds should have tried to support Mrs W in finding alternative
accommodation much sooner. I also note that Mrs W had very reasonably mitigated the
extreme difficulties by staying with family while awaiting Lloyds acceptance of her claim.
Nevertheless, I dont consider that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably during its
investigations between January and March 2023. On a provisional basis, due to Lloyds
stance at the time, I conclude that this uncertainty and stress around accommodation will
also have been extended by several weeks.
I note that Mrs W also considered that Lloyds hadnt provided adequate assistance in
obtaining alternative accommodation during the period April to June 2023. However, I
consider that there is evidence that Lloyds had made efforts to source some limited options
for Mrs W. Ive no doubt that it wasnt easy for Lloyds to provide suitable alternative
accommodation in the area in question. The options sourced by Lloyds werent suitable for
Mrs W, and in the circumstances, it appears that both parties agreed that Mrs W would
source her own accommodation. On a provisional basis, I cant say that Lloyds has acted in
an unfair or unreasonable manner in making attempts to identify suitable properties during
this particular period and in agreeing that Mrs W could proceed with her own options. Going
forward, Lloyds will be expected to communicate with Mrs W, as part of the on-going claim inrelation to any additional alternative accommodation costs.
Having considered Mrs Ws complaint as a whole, I agree with or investigator that the
service provided by Lloyds was poor and there was a lack of help and support offered to Mrs
W in the distressing circumstances following the flooding of her home. Im persuaded that
this will have caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience which was over and
above that already caused by the flooding incident itself.
My provisional decision is therefore that payment of £650 by Lloyds doesnt adequately
recognise the delays at the beginning of this claims process, both in ensuring diligent claims
handling, and in offering support to find emergency alternative accommodation. I recognise
that a significant flooding event and loss of a home and belongings will cause huge distress
and inconvenience. Whilst this is outside of the insurers control, the insurance services
deployed in the immediate aftermath, and the prompt and diligent handling of claims is within
its control. I therefore provisionally conclude that Lloyds actions were responsible for
substantial additional distress, upset and worry to Mrs W over many more weeks than was
necessary. I consider that £1,200 would represent a fairer level of compensation in all the
circumstances and would accord with the services guidance.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Lloyds and Mrs W if they had any further comments 
or evidence that they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Lloyds and Mrs W accepted the provisional decision. Mrs W wished to make a point of 
correction. She said that Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint initially or offer any 
compensation or acknowledgement of their failings in their initial complaint response. She 
said that it was only subsequent to referring her complaint to the Ombudsman that Lloyds 
upheld the complaint, offered compensation, and acknowledged there had been failings. She 
felt it was important to highlight this as it is indicative of multiple failing when dealing with the 
complaint itself - in addition to the claims process.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Im minded to
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay compensation to Mrs W in the sum of
£1,200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman