DRN-3463872
The complaint
I, a company, complains about a claim made on its Society of Lloyds professional indemnity 
insurance policy, which was declined.
The complaint is brought by Mr D on Is behalf. Mr D says Society of Lloyds was wrong to 
decline the claim.  
What happened
I had the benefit of professional indemnity insurance in place with Society of Lloyds. 
In 2018 a complaint was made against I by one of its former clients about the advice it 
received in relation to a pension. I rejected the claim in the first instance. The complaint was 
then referred to this Service by the former client. In February 2019 this Service delivered its 
findings and directed that I pay its former client redress for the advice it had received.
I made a claim on its professional indemnity insurance policy to cover the sum this Service 
directed it to pay. Society of Lloyds declined the claim. It said the claim was notified outside 
of the period of insurance and this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr D doesnt agree. He says:
I made a claim on the policy in February 2019 which was when it received this Services 
award. Until that time a claim didnt arise so its not reasonable for Lloyds to have 
required I to have notified the claim sooner.
Circumstances (as defined by the policy) that required I to notify Lloyds did not arise 
until an award was made by this Service because the former client wasnt claiming 
compensation- this was something awarded by this Service. 
Even if I should have notified the claim sooner, its not fair or reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim because the delay in notification hasnt prejudiced its position.
Our investigator considered Is complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She said that I 
notified its claim seven months after the policy it had in place with Lloyds expired and 
considerably after the complaint from the former client was received. Because of this she 
thought the claim was notified too late and that Lloyds werent obliged to cover it. In 
reaching this conclusion the investigator took into account the legal opinion of a Solicitor 
which Lloyds relied on. She said it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on this opinion and that 
she hadnt seen anything from I, like a conflicting legal opinion, which persuaded her the 
position Lloyds has taken was wrong.
Mr D doesnt agree. In particular, he says I did alert Lloyds of the claim during the period of 
insurance because they sent a copy of the letter from their former clients claims company 
dated June 2018 and the email from their broker confirms this. Because of this the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Is complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point are the policy terms. They cover:
any sums which the Insured may become legally liable to pay by way of compensatory 
damages (including claimant's costs and expenses recoverable from the Insured) arising out 
of claims first made against the Insured during the Period of this Certificate, which arise out 
of, or in connection with, the conduct of the Insured's Professional Business and which have 
been notified to Insurers in the period of and in accordance with the terms of this Certificate.
Is policy with Lloyds started to run in 2017 and ended in July 2018.
I appreciate the various arguments advance by Mr D that Is former client wasnt claiming for 
compensatory damages and that this was something awarded by this Service against I, but I 
dont think that matters. Thats because a claim in relation to advice provided by I was 
something that I should have notified to I during the period of insurance in accordance with 
the policy terms irrespective of there being cover for compensatory damages. Thats 
because the policy says:
i) If during the Period of this Certificate the Insured shall receive any Claim, the Insured 
shall give notice to Insurers as soon as practicable.
ii) If during the Period of this Certificate the Insured becomes aware of any Circumstance (as 
defined in this Certificate), the Insured shall give notice to Insurers of such Circumstance as 
soon as practicable.
 if the Insured becomes aware of any claim or Circumstance and is unable, due to any 
reasonable cause, to give notice during the Period of this Certificate, Insurers will accept 
such notice up to 30 days after expiry of this Certificate, provided that the Certificate has 
been renewed with Insurers and that the matter being notified first came to the attention of 
the Insured during the Period of this Certificate.
Circumstance is defined as information discovered by the Insured which suggests that a 
claim by an identified claimant is more likely than not to be made against the Insured. Such 
information does not constitute a circumstance merely because the Insured has sold or 
advised in relation to a product or class of investment that is subject of adverse press 
comment, regulatory investigation or has known liquidity issues.
Claim is defined as a written or oral demand for, or an expressed intention to demand, 
compensation or other relief from the Insured, which arises out of the conduct of 
Professional Business as defined herein and for which an indemnity is provided under this 
Certificate
Even if the letter from Is former clients claims company dated June 2018 didnt amount to a 
Claim, there is an argument to be made that it amounted to a Circumstance. I say so 
because the consent letter enclosed with the initial correspondence from Is former clients 
claims company refers to the advice given by I in relation to a pension scheme and provides 
authority for I to divulge any information required to assist the claims company which may 
assist with a complaint about the original advice given. It also authorises I to disclose 
information to this Service should they be involved. And as the investigator said, the claims 
companys website makes clear that they help customers claim back their pensions. Given the line of business they were in, and the content of the letter of consent, I think it was 
reasonable for I to conclude that it was more likely than not that a claim by an identified 
claimant is to be made. The information was, after all being requested so that advice could 
be taken from the former client by their claims company, with a view to pursuing a complaint 
with this Service. 
But even if that wasnt right, the letter of July 2018 from the former clients claims company 
to I makes clear that the client believes the cost of the pension wasnt fully explained and 
that they werent given enough information about this and the effect on their investment. This 
letter goes on to seek a full refund of fees. Again what was being sought from the former 
client at this point in compensation for the complaint is largely irrelevant as the policy 
required I to notify any Circumstance which suggests thats its more likely that a claim by 
the former client would be made.
I know Lloyds have obtained a legal opinion in this complaint to support their position in 
respect of the interpretation of the policy terms. Our investigator said that Mr D didnt have a 
comparable opinion. Mr D has said his brokers did obtain legal advice when challenging 
Lloyds position. I can see from a letter from Mr Ds broker that they havent disclosed this 
advice to Mr D. I dont however think the legal advice received by either party takes me 
much further in my findings. Its for this Service to decide whether the policy terms apply in 
this case and if so, interpret them accordingly. As Ive said above, I think that I didnt disclose 
a Circumstance as defined within the policy period, so Lloyds were correct to interpret the 
policy accordingly.
In reaching my findings, Ive also thought about whether Lloyds position is fair and 
reasonable. Our longstanding approach to complaints of this nature is to weigh up whether 
theres any prejudice to an insurer in providing cover if they were notified late of the claim. I 
think that in this case there was. Thats because the outcome of the claim was concluded by 
this Service before Lloyds had the opportunity to do anything about it that might mitigate 
their loss- like obtain expert advice for example or potentially make an offer to settle the 
complaint. Because of this I cant say its fair for Lloyds to cover the claim at this late stage.
In response to the investigators view, Mr D has said that I did alert Lloyds of the claim 
during the period of insurance because they sent a copy of the letter from their former 
clients claims company dated June 2018 to Lloyds- presumably through Is broker because 
he says the letter from the broker confirms this. What he seems to be referring to is the 
brokers email to Mr D sent in June 2018 which says:
A Pll policy does not cover return of fees but we would still notify insurers just in case it 
escalates into something more significant.
I hope this helps but I am happy to talk it through with you.
Before issuing this decision, I asked Lloyds to confirm whether they received any 
notifications about a possible claim by Is former client in the form of a letter from the former 
clients claims company dated June 2018 before the policy expired. Lloyds havent 
responded within the time frame I laid down so I dont know what their position is. I havent 
seen anything to confirm that Lloyds did receive a copy of this letter during the policy period. 
Rather the first notification Lloyds previously told me they received about the claim was in 
February 2019. I dont know whether thats because a conversation took place between Mr 
D and his broker which superseded the brokers suggestion that they would still notify 
insurers just in case the matter escalates into something more significant, or because the 
broker simply didnt provide a notification. Whatever the case, based on the information I 
have, I cant say that Lloyds did something wrong because I dont have anything to confirm 
they were in receipt of anything confirming a potential claim during the period of cover. If of course Mr D is able to provide evidence that such a notification had been made by the 
broker or Lloyds subsequently accept that they received a notification then Id expect Lloyds 
to reconsider its position but on the basis of the evidence Ive seen and for the reasons set 
out above, I dont agree that Is complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Is complaint against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman