DRN-2921104
The complaint
Mr M and Miss Ms complaint is about the administration of their mortgage application with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. In particular, they say that Barclays failed to commission the 
homebuyer report they asked for. In addition, they are unhappy that they didnt see the 
valuation report that Barclays commissioned instead, before they completed on the 
purchase. After the purchase completed, they discovered various issues with the property 
which they believe would have been identified in both reports and so they want Barclays to 
pay the cost of repairing the issues.
What happened
In the spring of 2012 Mr M and Miss M applied for a mortgage with Barclays. As part of the 
application, Barclays had a surveyor value the property for the purposes of making sure it 
was a suitable risk for lending. The surveyor provided it with a Property Risk Assessment 
(PRA) report, which confirmed the nature of the building, its value and anything that might 
negatively affect that value. A valuation report was produced for Mr M and Miss M which was 
still quite basic, but gave slightly more information about the nature of the property. The PRA 
supported the property being suitable security for Barclays. The mortgage was approved, 
and the property purchase completed.
After moving into the property Mr M and Miss M were made aware that the garage 
construction contained asbestos, there was a damp problem, there was a flat roof they 
hadnt been aware of and a tree that was close enough to potentially cause structural 
problems for the property. Their solicitors wrote a pre-action letter to Barclays threatening 
legal action on the basis that they hadnt received a copy of the valuation and that Mr M had 
been told there wasnt a report available. 
Barclays confirmed that prior to making a mortgage offer it had instructed a surveyor to 
complete a PRA to determine whether any mortgage to be offered was proportionate to the 
value of the property. It said that in addition to this, the surveyor had been asked to produce 
a separate independent valuation report for Mr M and Miss Ms use. The report produced for 
Mr M and Miss M detailed the condition of the property, its value as well as providing general 
energy, maintenance and fire safety advice. A copy was not provided to Barclays. Mr M was 
sent text messages informing him the report was ready to be viewed online. 
Barclays went on to confirm that, from its position, the PRA confirmed the value of the 
property was acceptable given the mortgage Mr M and Miss M wanted. Only essential 
repairs that had a material impact on the value of the property would have been included in 
this document, and there were none; so it couldnt have told Mr M and Miss M anything. As 
for the specific issues with the property Mr M and Miss M had raised, Barclays confirmed 
that it was only aware of the flat roof at the time the mortgage was offered and that was 
simply in the context that there was one. It did comment that having subsequently accessed 
a copy of the report for Mr M and Miss M, that there was mention of asbestos in relation to 
the garage and recommended a specialist report be obtained. Barclays highlighted that the 
report was accessible to Mr M and Miss M from 20 March 2012 and, not withstanding that 
Mr M appeared to have not received the texts telling him the report was available, he and 
Miss P didnt enquire about it either, despite knowing that theyd paid for it.
Mr M and Miss Ms solicitor wrote back to Barclays. It said that they werent notified that a 
PRA had been undertaken as well as a valuation report  they were not told they would get 
one report and Barclays a different one. It was also said Mr M had been told by the 
mortgage adviser that there was no report to view as there were no problems with the 
property. In addition, Mr M denied that he had received a text from Barclays telling him that 
the valuation was available to view on line before completion, only after. 
The solicitor went on to say that the maintenance needed for a flat roof would have meant 
purchasing the property wouldnt have been feasible. Regarding the surveyors comments 
about the garage contained in the report for Mr M and Miss M; it was stated that had they 
had the opportunity to read the valuation report before purchase, they would have 
reconsidered whether to go through with the purchase.
Barclays responded to the further comments. It said Mr M wouldnt have been told by the 
adviser that no survey report was available  there is one, but its electronic. The adviser 
confirmed to Barclays that Mr M would have been told there was a report available, but that 
a hard copy wouldnt be sent to him. 
The solicitors responded to Barclays again. Barclays answered by explaining the application 
procedure, including a discussion about valuations and what type the customer wants. It was 
explained that a guide is provided and sets out the difference between what was available. 
In relation to the comment that Mr M and Miss M were not aware of the existence of the PRA 
produced for Barclays, it said that this was for its use only and so customers wouldnt be 
informed about its existence or its content unless they had an impact on the value of the 
property. It acknowledged receipt of an email from the time of the mortgage processing, but 
asked that the entire chain of emails was provided so that it could consider the email in 
context. It told the solicitor that where the adviser had said there was no typed report, he 
meant there was no hard-copy report, which would have been explained to Mr M and Miss M 
at the time of the discussions about the mortgage. Barclays maintained its position that the 
matter of the valuation/survey was dealt with appropriately.
In 2020 a leak to the roof of the garage was discovered. Due to asbestos being a constituent 
part of the garage, Mr M and Miss M were told it would need to be demolished and replaced. 
Mr M and Miss M returned to Barclays with their complaint. They said they believed that the 
valuation should have identified the asbestos and the other problems with the property. 
Subsequently they raised that theyd asked for a homebuyers report, not just a basic 
valuation.
Barclays responded, but didnt consider the merits of the complaint again. It said that the 
complaint was time-barred as Mr M and Miss M had been aware of the issues they were 
complaining about since the start of the mortgage in 2012. As such, their complaint had 
been raised too late. 
Our investigator looked into whether this was a complaint we could consider. She was 
satisfied that Mr M and Miss M had made Barclays aware of their concerns in 2012, as such 
the complaint had been raised within six years of the event being complained about. As no 
final response letter was issued, the complaint fell within our jurisdiction. 
Barclays accepted the investigators conclusions and she went on to consider the merits of 
the complaint. It also confirmed that its records showed that only one of the issues Mr M and 
Miss M had raised about the property was commented on in the report it received; the 
asbestos in the garage. It was told if the garage were to be removed, there were risks 
because of the asbestos, so a specialist report should be obtained in those circumstances.When the investigator considered the merits of the complaint, she concluded that Barclays 
hadnt commissioned, or charged Mr M and Miss M for, the type of survey theyd wanted 
during their discussions with the mortgage adviser. This was an error on Barclays part and 
the investigator considered it should pay Mr M and Miss M £250 for the upset the error 
caused. However, she said that it couldnt be determined what the homebuyers report would 
have said or what Mr M and Miss M would have done as a result. Furthermore, it was their 
decision to go ahead with the purchase without the survey theyd requested. As such it 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for the consequences of that decision. 
Barclays accepted the investigators conclusions and agreed to pay the compensation 
recommended.
Mr M and Miss M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Mr M commented that the time 
hed spent dealing with the complaint was worth more than the £250 compensation 
recommended. They reiterated that they had asked for, but werent given, a copy of the 
valuation report and they were told there was nothing to view  there was no report. As such, 
the bank was responsible for their decision to move forward with the purchase without the 
survey theyd asked for.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage application form confirmed that Mr M and Miss M asked for a homebuyers 
survey to be commissioned on the property, but only a valuation was done. Barclays has 
accepted that this is likely to have been a mistake on its part and agreed to pay Mr M and 
Miss M £250 compensation. In the circumstances, I think thats reasonable for that type of 
error. 
Whichever type of report was commissioned, it was confirmed in the documentation from the 
time the report would be available on line, although a hard copy could be requested, and a 
telephone number was provided. The information from 2012 indicates that Mr M was sent 
two texts before the purchase completed telling him that the valuation report was available to 
view. Had it been viewed, Mr M and Miss M would have been ware there was a flat roof, 
however, there were no comments about maintenance attached to that statement. They 
would also have been made aware the garage contained asbestos and that if they intended 
to remove it, theyd need to get a specialist report.
Mr M has said that he didnt receive either of those texts or see the valuation until it was 
emailed to him after completion. I cant say exactly what happened in relation to the 
valuation report at the time and I note that despite requests in 2012, the full chain of emails 
between the mortgage adviser and Mr M wasnt provided. 
However, while Mr M and Miss M have said they were told there was no report, the evidence 
Ive seen doesnt indicate that is the case. It looks like Barclays told them there wasnt a 
typed report it could give them, i.e. a hard copy report. It also told them that there was 
nothing on the report that would cause it concern, which was accurate  the surveyor hadnt 
raised any concerns that would have affected the property value.
Mr M and Miss M have said they may have withdrawn from the purchase had they known 
about the problems with the property they later identified. As I have said above, only some of the things theyve identified as problems were identified in the valuation report. At a distance 
of nine years, and without the benefit of hindsight, it isnt clear what Mr M and Miss M would 
have done and whether it would have affected their decision to buy the property. This is 
especially so as the notes from the time show that Mr M chased Barclays for a decision 
while the application was being processed, as he was concerned they would lose the 
property. 
I would also say that irrespective of the type of survey commissioned by Barclays, it would 
have been made available on line and the communication about its availability would have 
been made in the same way  by text. So it is likely that if Mr M and Miss M didnt access the 
valuation report before the purchase completed, they wouldnt have accessed a 
homebuyers report either. As our investigator commented, it was Mr M and Miss Ms choice 
to complete on the purchase despite not having had sight of the survey they were expecting 
to receive. In that situation, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the issues they now believe 
there were with the property when they bought it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M and Miss M £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman