DRN-3185902
The complaint
Mr H complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (BBI) mishandled his claim on a 
breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to BBI, I include call-handlers and others insofar as I hold BBI responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
  
What happened
Mr H and his wife each had some health issues. For the year from October 2020, Mr H had 
car breakdown insurance through an insurance intermediary. The insurance covered two 
cars. BBI was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims.
On 15 January 2021, Mr H drove his wife to a hospital appointment in one of the cars. He 
waited in the car due to Covid-19 restrictions. The weather was cold and snowy. The car 
battery ran out of charge and wouldnt start the engine.
BBI declined to help free of charge under the policy, saying that its policy didnt cover this 
situation. 
Mr H complained to BBI. By a final response in January 2021, BBI turned down the 
complaint. Mr H brought his complaint to us in March 2021. He told us hed tried to start the 
car by pushing it. But in the end hed had to pay £95.00 to get help through a local garage.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
Mr Hs claim shouldve been declined. He recommended that BBI should:
1. reimburse Mr H £95.00 for the expense of seeking recovery elsewhere; and
2. compensate Mr H £100.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a 
consequence of this situation.
BBI disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following definition:
Breakdown / Broken Down - Means the Insured Vehicle has ceased to function as a 
result of an electrical or mechanical failure, including the failure of the Insured 
Vehicles battery and/or tyres, but not as a result of accident, fire, flood, theft or act of 
vandalism
From this, I consider that the failure of the Insured Vehicles battery was usually within the 
definition of a Breakdown but not if it was as a result of accident.
I havent found a definition of accident in the policy terms. So Ive thought about what it 
means. And its the first in a list of five risks. The other four are fire, flood, theft and 
vandalism, all of which share the feature that they are commonly covered by a motor 
insurance policy. So  - in this context - I interpret accident as meaning an accident that 
causes physical damage to the vehicle.
The policy had general exclusions including the following:
Any Claim resulting from the Insured Vehicles lights, radio or any chargers being left
on unintentionally, or otherwise, by anyone.
So the exclusion mentions only three electrical features. It doesnt mention any other 
electrical features such as telephone connectivity.
I havent seen any exclusion that mentions human error.
Mr H already had a problem when he called BBI. Thats why he called. And it was already 
likely that he was going to have to spend some time waiting for help to arrive.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Hs call for help. From that, I find that the car had ceased to 
function as a result of a failure of its battery.
Mr H said that hed left the power on. So I find it likely that this wouldve turned on some of 
the cars electrical features. But Mr H didnt say hed left the lights or radio or any charger on. 
And Mr H later said hed been trying to use the telephone connectivity. 
I dont find that the battery had gone flat as a result of an accident. And I dont consider 
theres enough evidence that the battery had gone flat as a result of the vehicles lights, 
radio or any chargers being left on. 
BBI declined to help free of charge under the policy. Rather it said it would send help if Mr H 
paid about £98.00 for this outside the policy. I dont consider that BBI acted in line with the 
policy terms or acted fairly. BBI also confused the issue by mentioning human error which 
wasnt a consideration under the policy.
In my view, BBI shouldve sent help free of charge. Mr H would still have had to wait for help 
to arrive or to try to find another solution. So I dont hold BBI responsible for all of his waiting 
time or for his exertions in pushing the car.
However, I do hold BBI responsible for unfairly disappointing Mr H and for putting him in the 
stressful position of urgently finding, contacting and paying  a local service provider to help 
him. I accept Mr Hs statement to us that he paid £95.00 in cash.
After Mr H complained to BBI, I consider that it shouldve accepted his complaint and tried to 
put things right. 
  
Putting things right
Weighing all this up, I find it fair and reasonable to direct BBI to reimburse Mr H the £95.00. 
And  as hes been out of pocket since January 2021  BBI should add interest at our usual 
rate. BBI should also pay Mr H £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £95.00 in reimbursement of what he paid for help; and
2. simple interest on £95.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 15 January 2021 to the date 
of the reimbursement. If BBI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman