DRN-3447841
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of Mrs S about how Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) handled a 
claim under her home insurance policy. I will refer to Mrs S throughout for simplicity. When I 
mention Zurich, I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Mrs S lives in an apartment in a property covered by Zurich under a property owners 
insurance policy. 
In February 2021 Mrs S noticed a water leak she thought was coming from her bathroom. 
She assumed that the responsibility for dealing with the leak was hers, so she called out a 
plumber. A company responsible for managing the property also called out another plumber. 
In the end, three separate plumbers were called out and Mrs S paid for the callout fees for all 
of them, which was £710. There was some confusion about whose responsibility the leak 
was between Mrs S and the company managing the property. It was ultimately decided that 
it was Mrs Ss responsibility.
Zurich were contacted and a claim made. Zurich refunded £710 to Mrs S for the earlier 
plumbers callout fees. Zurich also instructed a loss adjuster and a specialist company to 
carry out Trace & Access work to establish the nature of the water leak. This specialist 
company reported that there was a leak in the vicinity of the shower, but it wasnt able to 
access the leak due to Mrs S needing the use of the shower facilities.
In order to access and repair the leak, Zurich located and paid for alternative 
accommodation for Mrs S to live in. Finding and securing this took a few weeks as Mrs S 
needs a property of a certain type in a specific location.
Once Mrs S was in the alternative accommodation, the leak was discovered to have been a 
leaking mixer tap. It was discovered that the leak had been ongoing for a few months and, 
as it was from a mixer tap, the leaking water was heated. 
Mrs S says this resulted in an energy bill of over £3,500 when her usual bill would be about 
£50 per month.
Mrs S wasnt happy about the way her claim was being handled by Zurich and she 
complained about how long it took Zurich to find alternative accommodation. She also said 
she was very stressed by how itd handled the claim and wanted Zurich to pay for her 
increased energy bill.
Zurich said it thought it had tried hard to find suitable alternative accommodation but agreed 
it hadnt done it as fast as Mrs S would have liked so it offered £100 in compensation. It also 
said it couldnt cover the increased energy bill as it regarded this bill as consequential 
damage under this part of its policy wording:
Exclusion to parts A, B, C and D
Parts A, B, C and D do not cover:
1. Consequential Loss
In respect of parts A, B, and D only consequential loss of any kind other than loss of 
rent if insured"
Mrs S wasnt happy with Zurichs response so she complained to this service. She asks for 
Zurich to pay for her increased energy bill. She also complains that Zurich let her return 
home before the works were completed, which caused her more stress. In the end Mrs S 
moved to her family members house for four days because of her medical needs. 
Zurich said Mrs S didnt need to live away from the property because the bathroom in her 
apartment was fully usable until the actual trace and access work started. Zurich also 
provided evidence of how itd found Mrs S alternative accommodation and that itd paid out 
for one property that Mrs S had initially agreed with, but then changed her mind.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that Zurichs 
policy didnt cover Mrs Ss increased energy bill and she thought that Zurich had acted fairly 
and reasonably in finding Mrs S alternative accommodation. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the view and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the evidence I have that this was a very unsettling experience for Mrs S and 
her family. Its my role to look at the circumstances of Mrs Ss claim and decide whether 
Zurich have dealt with her claim fairly and reasonably. I know Mrs S will find my decision 
disappointing, but in this case I think Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably and Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see from Zurichs evidence that its claims process did progress quickly but was 
hindered by not being able to contact Mrs S to organise its initial visit to find out what the 
cause of the leak was. I can see that contacting Mrs S often took a few attempts and while I 
understand Mrs Ss circumstances, I think Zurich tried hard to move the claim forward. 
Mrs S needed alternative accommodation of a very specific type and I can see that Zurich 
struggled to find something that met her specific needs. I can see from its file that Zurich did 
consider several different options including keeping Mrs S in her own home before one was 
found that was mutually acceptable to Zurich and Mrs S. But after Zurich paid a substantial 
amount to secure the first property, Mrs S changed her mind. Zurich then had to find another 
alternative accommodation. 
So I cant agree that Zurichs actions werent fair and reasonable and I can see that it did 
work to find a suitable property in a challenging rental environment with such specific 
requirements.
Zurich has already apologised for any delays it had caused in finding alternative 
accommodation quickly enough for Mrs S and it has paid Mrs S £100 compensation, which 
is in line with what this service would recommend.I have also looked at Zurichs policy wording to see if there is any cover for the increased 
energy bill. Again, I can see from Zurichs evidence that it had tried to find cover for the bill 
under its wording but ultimately hadnt found any. There is an exclusion in its wording which 
means Zurich wont pay for consequential losses:
Exclusion to parts A, B, C and D
Parts A, B, C and D do not cover:
1. Consequential Loss
In respect of parts A, B, and D only consequential loss of any kind other than loss of 
rent if insured"
The leak in Mrs Ss property was to a mixer shower, meaning that there was a constant 
demand for hot water over and above what would normally be expected in her apartment. 
But I agree with Zurich that its policy doesnt provide cover for the increased power use as it 
would be considered a consequential loss from the leak. I would suggest Mrs S discusses 
the bill with her energy provider.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman