DRN-3591175
The complaint
Mr R complains that a television he bought in May 2019 was not of satisfactory quality. 
Because he partly paid for it with a credit card issued by American Express Services Europe 
Limited, he says that it is equally liable with the retailer. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr R bought a television from a retailer which Ill call S. He paid part of the 
purchase price using his American Express credit card. 
In early November 2019 Mr R contacted S to say that there was an intermittent static noise 
coming from the television. S said he should contact the manufacturer. The manufacturer 
replaced a part, but Mr R says the issue remained. He contacted S again and the television 
was taken away for inspection. 
S was unable to identify any fault but offered to try to fix the problem which Mr R had 
described or to provide a partial refund  taking into account the fact that Mr R had been 
using the television for several months. 
Mr R then referred the matter to American Express. It noted however that no fault had been 
found with the television. It did not believe that there was sufficient evidence that the 
television was faulty. 
Mr R had no further contact with S and so referred the matter to this service. American 
Express accepted that it had not responded to Mr Rs complaint as promptly as it should 
have done and offered £100 compensation in recognition of that. Our investigator thought 
that was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr R did not agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs contract with S was to be read as including a term that the television would be of 
satisfactory quality. That meant the quality a reasonable person would expect and included 
such matters as durability and fitness for purpose. 
In addition, Mr R bought an extended guarantee with his television, which covered it for six 
years. Under the terms of the guarantee, Mr R would not be charged for repairs or 
replacement in the event of electrical or mechanical failure. Ss liability was limited to the 
lower of the original price of the television or its then current value. If the television could not 
be repaired, the terms of the guarantee said that S could replace it with a similar product or 
pay an agreed sum, which would take into account any use Mr R had had of it. 
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was that, because Mr R had used 
his American Express credit card to pay part of the purchase price, he could make a claim 
for breach of contract against American Express in the same way he could bring such a 
claim against S.   
Where an item is found not to be of satisfactory quality within six months of sale, there is an 
assumption that it was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. The seller can seek to 
show that the assumption is incorrect, however. 
In this case, Mr R says that the static noise did occur with six months of purchase. However, 
the subsequent inspection did not identify any manufacturing or other defect. 
I do not doubt that Mr R has accurately and honestly described the problems he had, and he 
has sent recordings evidencing them. But it has not been possible for technicians to recreate 
those problems or identify any fault. The evidence about the television is therefore 
inconclusive.   
I note as well that S has offered to resolve the case by providing Mr R with a partial refund 
under the guarantee. That refund will, it says, take into account any use Mr R has had of the 
television. That is expressly provided for under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in cases 
where consumers have been able to use an item which is later found to be defective. 
In this case therefore, Mr R made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act in 
circumstances where: (i) it was not clear that the television was defective in any event and 
(ii) the retailer, S, had made an offer of settlement which, on the face of it, was in line with 
what the relevant legalisation provided for. 
It is not for me to decide whether Mr R does in fact have a valid claim for breach of contract 
against S. Against this background, however, I think that American Expresss response to 
his claim under section 75 was reasonable. I think it was reasonable too to offer £100 in 
respect of delays in addressing the complaint, but I dont believe it would be fair to ask 
American Express to do any more.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require American Express Services 
Europe Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman