DRN-2538918
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated him when he tried to 
deposit a large amount of cash. 
What happened
In the summer of 2020 Mr H visited HSBC to deposit a large sum in cash. Mr H has 
explained that he had saved the funds with a family member over a four-year period and 
wanted to pay it into his bank account. 
Mr H visited HSBCs branch and was asked about the source of the funds he wanted to 
deposit. But after explaining where the funds had come from, the cash handler told him they 
couldnt accept the deposit without documents to verify what he said. Mr H has told us he 
found the cash handlers reaction unhelpful and complains they discriminated against him 
because of his race and how he was dressed. Mr H has told us he was dressed casually 
when he visited the branch. 
Mr H went on to discuss the situation with a manager who reviewed his accounts and 
completed further checks. HSBC agreed to accept the deposit but Mr H has told us he was 
forced to sit in an office and organise the cash, which took around two hours. 
Mr H complained that he had been discriminated against because of his race and 
appearance and HSBC responded on 14 September 2020. HSBC said its branch staff have 
to ask questions about large cash deposits, including requesting documents. HSBC also 
said cash deposits require a paying in slip to be completed and cash sorted by the customer 
so all parties can be sure about what is being deposited. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said HSBC had acted in line with its cash handling procedures regarding large 
cash deposits, which applies to all customers. They didnt find that HSBC had treated Mr H 
differently. The investigator also thought HSBCs request that Mr H fill out a cash deposit slip 
and sort the money himself was reasonable and in line with its normal approach. 
Mr H responded to say that whilst HSBC may have followed the right process, the key focus 
of his complaint was that he felt the original cash handler had discriminated against him 
based on his race and the fact he was dressed casually. Mr H explained the original cash 
handler he spoke with initially refused to accept his deposit. It was only after Mr H asked to 
escalate the matter and a supervisor became involved that the deposit was accepted.
 
As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrated Mr H is at the way his deposit at HSBC was handled. Mr H has 
explained that he saved a large sum of cash over a period of several years and I can 
understand why he was disappointed that his branch visit didnt go as expected. Mr H feels 
that HSBCs staff discriminated against him due to his race and appearance  he was 
dressed casually when he visited the branch rather than in his usual suit. Because Mr H has 
said our investigator missed the main point of his complaint  the way the original cash 
handler reacted  Ive focussed on what the original cash handler did even though I can see 
he complained about the whole visit when he contacted HSBC and referred the matter to us.
In order to see whether HSBC treated Mr H fairly, Ive looked at the way the original cash 
handler dealt with Mr Hs deposit in line with HSBCs normal process and the way it treats all 
its customers. 
HSBC has given us cash handling process documents that say large cash deposits cant be 
accepted without questions being asked. Mr H has told us that when he confirmed he 
wanted to deposit a large sum of cash he was asked about the source of his funds. Mr H 
explained he had saved each month over a period of several years and given the money to a 
family member to look after. As a result, there was no document available to show where the 
funds had come from. 
Mr H has explained he was initially told the transaction couldnt proceed. Mr H says this 
refusal caused his main concern as he felt he had been discriminated against based on his 
race and the way he was dressed. HSBCs cash handling guidance says that, if the 
information about the source of a large cash deposit cant be verified a decision to decline it 
can be taken. I understand why Mr H feels it was unreasonable of the original cash handler 
to refuse his deposit, but I dont agree it was for the reasons Im about to give, particularly 
having looked at what HSBCs cash handling guidance says.
HSBC has provided statements from the staff members involved. The cash handler has told 
us when Mr H told them he had regularly saved cash with a family member from his salary 
they looked at his account history. But they didnt immediately find evidence of the regular 
cash withdrawals and savings he had explained. HSBC says that, because it couldnt initially 
verify what Mr H had said, it had to consider whether accepting the deposit was the right 
thing to do. After Mr H complained, the original cash handlers supervisor, who had further 
powers to accept cash deposits, became involved. 
I can understand why Mr H may have found HSBCs questions somewhat insensitive, but 
the guidance Ive seen requires cash handlers to make reasonably detailed enquiries about 
the source of funds and attempt to verify what theyve been told. I appreciate Mr H feels 
reluctance from the original cash handler to accept his deposit was discriminatory in nature, 
but the information Ive seen shows their actions were in line with its normal approach. I 
havent found that Mr H was treated differently to HSBCs other customers in this case 
based on his race or how he was dressed. I hope this helps Mr H to know that someone 
impartial and independent has looked into his concerns. 
Whilst I understand its not the main focus of his complaint, Mr H also raised concerns that 
HSBC made him organise the cash and complete a deposit slip before it would accept his 
money. I understand that took a long time, but HSBC requires all customers depositing cash 
to specifically say what notes are being paid in when completing a deposit slip. So I cant say 
Mr H has been treated differently in this case.
HSBC says Mr H spent about an hour and forty minutes in the branch and that it took around 
15 minutes for staff the complete the questions and checks required to proceed with the deposit. The rest of the time Mr H was in branch appears to have been taken by organising 
the cash deposit. Whilst I can see Mr H did spend a substantial period of time in branch, I 
havent found HSBC unreasonably delayed the process or treated him unfairly. 
HSBC has also told us it would normally have discussed Mr Hs deposit in a private room 
but, due to COVID restrictions, that option wasnt available when he visited. I understand 
why Mr H wouldve preferred more privacy during his visit, but HSBC says its options at the 
time were limited. I think the way HSBC approached its queries with Mr H was reasonable in 
the circumstances of his visit. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But, 
having considered all the available information, I think HSBC acted in line with its standard 
approach to large cash deposits. I havent found that HSBC treated Mr H differently to its 
other customers. As I think HSBC dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman