DRN-4044880
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has lost his deeds for a piece of land he owns.
Mr R is represented by his son in law in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr R himself.
What happened
Mr R had his deeds stored with Lloyds for over 50 years and he went to move them as he 
was centralising his land documents together. But he says Lloyds told him that they had lost 
his deeds. And the Land Registry doesnt have a copy due to how he obtained the land. Mr 
R says that Lloyds lost the deeds for the house also, but the house had been registered a 
few years ago. He says registering the land wasnt something he had to ever do, but now he 
has to because the deeds have been lost. Mr R says that a major issue is not being able to 
look at the history of the deeds and the new registration wont solve this. Mr R made a 
complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds upheld Mr Rs complaint. They said they would pay £250 for being unable to return 
the deeds to him, despite searching extensively for them, and £330 to refund the safe 
custody fees he has paid to them. They asked him to make the necessary arrangements to 
have his title deeds reconstructed, and they would be happy to cover the reasonable costs 
involved for this to be actioned. They said once hes been advised of the costs, to contact 
them to discuss this further. 
Mr R advised Lloyds that he wanted them to make a payment of £5,000 to him for the upset 
which has been caused and due to the costs. Lloyds said that these costs are separate to 
their payment of apology, but they would credit a further £250 to his account for being 
unable to return the deeds to him. Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Lloyds told us 
that they paid an invoice of £940 that Mr R provided to them and a further £60 for customer 
expenses. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint. She said that Lloyds should pay Mr R a further 
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience as to get the registration of the new 
deeds it would take 15 months to complete, which would add further stress and 
inconvenience to Mr R. 
Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that he doesnt believe the 
£330 is what was paid over the years of storing the deeds with Lloyds, and £250 doesnt 
reflect the loss of the deeds. He feels £2,500 compensation is fair. Mr R knows other people 
whove had issues with Lloyds, and he says they have a reputation for making mistakes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about how he knows other people who have issues with 
Lloyds, and they have a reputation for mistakes. But I must make it clear to Mr R that Im 
only able to take into consideration how Lloyds actions have impacted him only in the 
circumstances of the complaint hes brought to us.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about him not believing he has paid storage fees of £330 
over the years and this figure is likely to be higher. I agree that Mr R will have paid more 
than this over the 50 years+ that Lloyds held his deeds, although I think it would be unlikely 
he was paying £15 each year for all of this time. I say this as Lloyds have provided a 
screenshot of a letter they sent Mr R dated 2 March 1999. While the letter is not available 
due to the time thats passed, the letter title is recorded as Safe Custody  Advise Tariff 
Increase & Enclose Agreement. 
So by the nature of this letter its likely Mr R was only paying £15 a year from 1999 and he 
would have paid a lower annual payment prior to 1999  although its likely that the fee in the 
1970s would have started off lower and gradually increased over time. Due to the time thats 
passed Lloyds have been unable to establish the amount that has been paid prior to this. But 
here, I need to consider when Lloyds are likely to have lost the deeds. It wouldnt be fair to 
ask Lloyds to repay the storage fees from the outset if they had been providing a service to 
Mr R. It was only when they lost his deeds that they effectively stopped providing this service 
to him.
Im satisfied that the date when Lloyds lost his deeds was between 1998 and when Mr R 
asked for his deeds. I say this because Lloyds have told us that there is a reference to the 
item recorded on their system from 1998. So Im persuaded the envelope containing the 
deeds was still present in 1998, so if Mr R had wanted to retrieve his deeds prior to this time, 
he would have been able to access these then. So it wouldnt be proportionate for me to ask 
Lloyds to refund the safe custody fees prior to 1998. As theres no evidence of them holding 
his deeds after this point, this should be the date in which they refund the storage fees. 
So the fairest thing for Lloyds to do is to calculate the fees based on £15 a year, as it was in 
the last year they charged Mr R  2019, when they stopped charging for this service. And it 
is unknown what Mr R paid for the safe custody storage service in 1998. So based on 22 
years at £15 a year, this would equate to £330. So Im satisfied that the £330 Lloyds credited 
to Mr Rs account to refund the storage fees charged from 1998  the last time they are able 
to evidence they had the envelope  is fair.
Ive then considered what other compensation Lloyds have paid Mr R. They paid his invoice 
of £940 and £60 administration costs to register the deeds, which is proportionate. And they 
paid him £500 for the impact of the distress and inconvenience they caused him for losing 
his deeds. I understand this is a very stressful time for Mr R and hes told us about his 
sleepless nights he's had because of this, especially given his personal circumstances, 
which I wont go into in this decision, but I want to reassure Mr R Ive read everything hes 
said about this. And it isnt over yet as I understand that the process of registering the deeds 
takes 15 months. Because of the lost deeds, he isnt able to look at the history of the deeds 
either, which is important to him.
So based on the impact that this situation has had and is having on Mr R, I agree with our 
investigator that an extra £200 for distress and inconvenience is fair for the impact this 
situation has had on Mr R for Lloyds losing his deeds. I know Mr R feels that a total of 
£2,500 is more appropriate, whereas an extra £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would total £2,030. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines. So Im satisfied that an extra £200 is fair based on the circumstances of this complaint. So it follows Ill be asking Lloyds to put things right for Mr R.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Lloyds pay Mr R an extra £200 for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr R a further £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman