DRN-2956462
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt credited £3,000 that she paid in cash to 
her account.
What happened
Mrs M visited a branch on 25 September 2020. She says that she had £3,000 worth of old 
style twenty-pound notes which she wanted to change to the new version. She gave these to 
a male cashier, also paid a bill at that time and withdrew £3,000. The credit hasnt been 
shown on her account and she wanted it to be paid to her.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be paying Mrs M this money. It said that it had investigated 
what had happened and found no evidence of any error. The tills had balanced, and no 
receipt was issued for any deposit to Mrs M. The amount she withdrew was £3,200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Barclays had 
provided evidence to show that there were no credits for £3,000 that day. And that the tills 
had balanced. Its records showed that a female colleague dealt with Mrs M on that day. 
Barclays had pointed out that Mrs M had paid in £2,000 on 3 August 2020 and was dealt 
with by a male colleague and also £2,500 on 21 July 2020 and said she might have been 
getting mixed up with the dates. He said that there was insufficient evidence to show that 
this money was deposited on 25 September 2020.
Mrs M didnt agree. Her representative said that Mrs M was one hundred per cent certain 
she was dealt with by a male colleague. She thought he might have logged into a 
colleagues account. She wanted CCTV to be considered and whether a male fitting the 
description she gave was working that day. She thought that consideration of a fraud by staff 
needed to be made. Mrs M said she has been treated unfairly and rudely by the branch and 
there is no proof that she didnt pay the money in and this had to be escalated. She said on 
the day she had left the branch without a receipt as she was flustered having been dealt with 
rudely by the member of staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Ive reviewed the summary of the complaint from Mrs M and this states that given her trust in 
Barclays she didnt raise this matter when she saw that the money hadnt been credited to 
her statement. And she thought it might turn up the following month. She doesnt set out 
exactly when after that she did go into a branch, but I understand that by then any CCTV 
evidence wouldnt have been retained. Barclays made a record of her saying that she went 
back to a branch on 28 January 2021 and her complaint was logged on 3 February 2021.
Barclays has provided evidence from its systems about what happened that day. Ive seen 
from these that at the time Mrs M came into the branch a female member of staff was logged 
into the computer at the till. There is a record of Mrs Ms debit card being read at that till at 
14:36 and a balance enquiry had been made. At 14:38 a bill for £96.19 was paid and at 
14:41 £3,200 taken out in cash. Barclays has provided signed receipts for both of those 
payments. There are no credits recorded to Mrs Ms account. 
Ive seen evidence to show that there was no credit for £3,000 paid in at all to the branch 
that day. And no other credits that could have been mixed up say and applied to someone 
elses account in error. I have also seen information about the balancing of the tills and there 
was no discrepancy that could be accounted for by a missing deposit from Mrs M.
I appreciate Mrs M says she was flustered that day and so didnt get a receipt. But there is 
no evidence to support her paying this amount of money into her account. Im puzzled why 
having noticed the significant difference in the balance on her account she didnt raise this 
any earlier. She now suspects fraud by staff especially given her belief that she was dealt 
with by a male not female member of staff that day. But again, there is no evidence to 
support that or any wrong doing. Barclays thinks she might have mixed up previous credits 
to the account as our investigator detailed but thats clearly not Mrs Ms position about 
things.
Mrs M has very strong views about what happened and there is a considerable amount at 
stake for her. And so, I know I am going to disappoint her when I say that I dont consider the 
most likely explanation here on the evidence available is that Barclays has made a mistake. 
And so, I wont be asking it to do anything more. If she doesnt accept my decision she is 
free to pursue this further in court or with the relevant authorities, subject to any time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman