DRN-2687494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc has not reimbursed the money that 
Mr C was tricked into transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here. But briefly, its accepted that Mr C was contacted by a fraudster who, 
pretending to be from HSBC, tricked him into believing his account was under attack from 
fraudsters.  
Mr C was advised by the fraudster, under the pretence of protecting his money, to transfer 
£9,400 from the joint account he held with Mrs C to a safe account. However, this safe 
account was, in fact, an account controlled by fraudsters. 
 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers whove been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
HSBC believes at least one of those exceptions applies in this case. It considers that Mr C 
made the transfer without a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. It also 
concluded that Mr C acted with gross negligence.  
HSBC felt Mr C could have done more to prevent this fraud happening. I wont list all the 
reasons the bank gave for taking this position, but they included its view that Mr C failed to 
carry out even rudimentary checks which he should have done in order to establish a 
reasonable belief. It also didnt believe the scam was sophisticated and that Mr C ignored a 
number of red flags  such as being convinced to make the payment to a pseudonym in 
order to protect his money. 
As it accepted it didnt provide Mr C with an effective warning at the time, HSBC did, 
however, make an offer to return 50% of the £9,400 to Mr and Mrs C. The bank did not offer 
the full amount as it did not consider Mr Cs belief that he was following legitimate 
instructions in making the payments and that the person with whom he was transacting was 
legitimate, was a reasonable belief. 
Mr C has said that I admit I was conned and that he only transferred the money as hed 
been convinced his account was in danger. He says he was completely taken in by the 
call - partly because a similar thing happened to him before with a different bank. Mr C 
recalls, on that occasion, the bank had called him and it was a genuine fraud. So, when the 
fraudster called him this time, he believed it was his bank and that it was happening to him 
again.  
Mr C says he referred this incident to Action Fraud and has asked us to consider the matter. 
In doing so he said I am a pensioner, age 73, and cannot afford to lose this money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full £9,400 Mr 
and Mrs C lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
I understand that HSBC has already refunded 50% of the loss (£4,700). In the 
circumstances, HSBC should therefore fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 
50% (£4,700) to Mr and Mrs C, less the £2,398.64 it was able to recover from the 
receiving bank.
Its not clear how Mr and Mrs C would have used the money if HSBC had refunded it 
when it ought reasonably to have done. So it should also pay interest on the money it 
should have refunded at 8% simple per year - from the date HSBC should have 
refunded this under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
Ive carefully considered all HSBCs representations about whether Mr C had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transfer was genuine. They do not persuade me to reach a different 
outcome fundamentally to the one reached by the Investigator  who upheld this 
complaint. In particular, Im not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that the consumer failed 
to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse Mr and Mrs 
C under the terms of the CRM Code. For completeness, nor do I think Mrs Cs actions 
amounted to gross negligence.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster and the 
impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Mr Cs thoughts and 
actions.
I can see, with the benefit of hindsight, there were steps Mr C could have taken that might 
have revealed the fraud at an earlier stage. It can be easy, in the cold light of day and when 
you have sufficient knowledge about how scams like this unfold, to note what those steps 
could have been. However, Mr C was not making decisions in that environment. He was a 
pensioner who, in his own words, cannot afford to lose this money - in an environment of 
fear carefully cultivated by a callous fraudster - where losing his money appeared to him to 
be a very real possibility if he didnt act quickly.
Mr C has said hed been the victim of an attempted fraud before. I can see how this could 
reasonably have heightened his anxiety when he received the first call from the fraudster 
that day. Also, I can see how Mr C might reasonably have been unaware that HSBC could 
have a different fraud process to another bank.
Mr C says he received one call to inform him of the attempted fraud on his HSBC account - 
with the promise of a second call from the banks fraud department who would ultimately 
resolve the problem for him. This was, in my view, a deliberate strategy by the fraudster, with 
some emotional sophistication, designed to create a number of responses from Mr C.
 The first of those being fear  in the hope it would destabilise Mr Cs thinking and make him 
more compliant. Another of those being a false sense of reassurance  in that Mr C would 
receive a second call from the fraud specialists at the bank who would fix things for him. And 
I believe the reference by the fraudster to an HSBC branch local to Mr C being the source of 
the fraud was, more likely than not, designed to build plausibility, unnerve Mr C and increase 
the probability he would trust the caller.
Fraudsters know that fear can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process. It 
can certainly make people take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise 
take. On the balance of evidence, I dont believe that HSBC has given sufficient weight to 
this as part of its investigation.
So in summary, Im satisfied that Mr C, at the time of making the transfer, had a reasonable 
basis for believing it was legitimate. It can be difficult for consumers to think clearly, and take 
steps they might otherwise take, under the kind of worry and emotional pressure Mr C found 
himself under at the hands of a fraudster. Thats not unreasonable and is of course why 
frauds like this can be so successful. The CRM Code acknowledges this in much of its 
design. The additional feature of a previous fraud here only cements my view of Mr and Mrs 
Cs complaint.
   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
 
Ive found that Mr and Mrs C ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And 
that its fair and reasonable that HSBC reimburses them now, in resolution to this complaint. 
I therefore require that HSBC:
pay Mr and Mrs C the remaining 50% of the money lost (£4,700) - less any amount 
from this already paid/recovered (which I believe is £2,398.64);
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date HSBC 
declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement - less 
any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Patrick Hurley
Ombudsman