DRN-3919032
The complaint
Ms O complains about Lloyds Bank PLC. She says that Lloyds mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Lloyds sold Ms O her PPI policy in 2000, about four years after she had taken out her 
mortgage in 1996.
Ms O complained about her PPI policy to Lloyds. Initially it told her that it hadnt sold her a 
PPI policy  but then after further investigation did find that shed been sold a PPI policy. 
Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms O then brought her complaint to this Service. Our Adjudicator considered it but didnt 
think that the policy had been mis-sold.
Ms O disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
Ms O says that she did not know that she had PPI and so she could never have made a 
claim. But I think that Ms O did know that she had a PPI policy and that Lloyds made her 
aware she had a choice in taking out the policy  although I can understand why Ms O may 
not remember this as the sale took place so long ago.
I say this because Ms O was sold the PPI policy four years after her mortgage completed  
so she would have known that she didnt have to take out the policy in order to get her 
mortgage. Lloyds has also provided her application for the PPI, which Ms O has signed.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Ms O, which means that it needed to take extra steps to 
make sure that the policy was right for her  and looking at her circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. Although Ms O has said that she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer, the PPI couldve paid out in excess of the cover she already had and provide 
cover in the event of Ms O being made redundant. And while Ms O has also said that her 
brother couldve supported her, ultimately the mortgage repayments were Ms Os 
responsibility and family while often keen to help, this cant always be relied on.
It is possible that some of the information Lloyds gave Ms O wasnt as clear as it couldve 
been, but Ms O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things that the 
policy didnt cover  and it seems like the policy couldve been useful for her based on what I 
know about her circumstances. So, I dont think that better information wouldve prevented 
her from taking out the policy. I also think that Lloyds made it clear how much the policy 
would cost, and how much cover Ms O would receive if she ever needed to make a claim.
Ive taken into account everything that Ms O has said, including what shes said about 
visiting Lloyds in 2010 to ask about reducing her repayments as she had started a new role 
with a reduced salary, and Lloyds didnt mention her PPI policy to her then when she may 
have been able to make use of it. But PPI doesnt provide cover for situations such as this  
it covers redundancy and sickness. So, I dont think Lloyds would have directed her to try 
and make a claim at this time.
Ms O also says that Lloyds has admitted to being at fault and mis-selling her a PPI policy  
but dont think this is the case. I know that Lloyds initially told her that she didnt have PPI, 
and then changed its position when it located a PPI policy at a later date. But this doesnt 
mean that it is saying that it mis-sold the PPI policy to her  and not every PPI policy was 
mis-sold.
So, these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need to give 
consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, these dates dont apply to Ms Os mortgage, so Lloyds doesnt have to refund any of 
the commission she paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman