DRN-3613872
The complaint
Ms P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund the money she 
lost when she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms P and her family were looking for ways to grow their money and were told by a family 
friend about an investment company the friend had been using, which offered good monthly 
returns. Ms P says the investment company seemed like a good opportunity, so she got in 
touch with them through the family friend and was sent a brochure and reports showing 
returns other investors had made. Her and her family also met with someone from the 
investment company and, after being sent contracts to sign, decided to go ahead and invest. 
Ms P then sent £20,000 from her Halifax account to the bank details the investment 
company gave her. Other members of her family also sent money to the investment 
company. But, unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
For the first two months after making the investment, Ms P was sent monthly returns in line 
with what shed been told she would receive. But she didnt receive any returns in the third 
month. She and her family tried to contact the investment company, and went to the address 
of the person they had met, but didnt get any response. Ms P then reported the scam to 
Halifax and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Halifax investigated but didnt think the information the investment company had given Ms P 
was convincing and said Ms P had been dishonest about the reasons for the payment when 
it called to ask about it. So it didnt think Ms P had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
investment she was making was genuine and didnt agree to refund the money she lost. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Halifax had established 
that Ms P didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment was genuine. So they 
felt Halifax should refund the money Ms P lost. Halifax disagreed with our investigator, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Ms P fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Ms P have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ms P has said the investment company was recommended to her and her family by a family 
friend who had used them for some time and received monthly returns. And I think this kind 
of personal recommended from a trusted friend will have been very convincing to Ms P and 
made the investment company seem legitimate.
Ive also seen copies of the promotional brochure and reports Ms P was sent by the 
investment company before investing, and the contract she was sent to sign when she 
agreed to invest. And I think these documents all look relatively professional, and so will also 
have helped convince Ms P the investment company was legitimate.
Ms P also met someone from the investment company at an office, where she says they 
came across as professional and honest and were able to answer all the questions her and 
her family had. And I think its reasonable that this kind of personal, face-to-face interaction 
will have been convincing to Ms P.
Halifax has said that Ms P should have done more checks into the company and the person 
she met, that the rate of return she was told she would receive was too good to be true and 
that she should have been concerned when she was asked to lie to it about the purpose of 
the payment. And while Ms P was told to tell Halifax the payment was for a loan to a friend 
rather than an investment, she was given a logical explanation for why to do this  that 
telling her bank she was making an investment would cause delays and that the sooner the 
money was sent, the sooner she would start making returns. I dont think the rate of return 
was so high as to be obviously too good to be true to someone with no investment 
experience. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms P not to carry out further checks 
into the investment company or the person she met  particularly as shes not an 
experienced investor.
The issues Halifax has raised should have caused Ms P some concern. But I think its 
reasonable that these concerns didnt overcome the trust in the investment company that 
had already been built up by the personal recommendation she received, the meeting she 
had with someone from the company and the professional-looking documents she was sent. 
So I think Ms P did have a reasonable basis for belief that the investment company was 
legitimate when she made the payment.Did Ms P ignore an effective warning?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
As the payment Ms P made was for a large amount, I think Halifax should have identified a 
scam risk and so should have provided an effective warning to her.
Halifax has sent us a copy of the warning Ms P was shown when making the payment on 
her mobile banking app, as well as a copy of the phone call it had with Ms P before it 
allowed the payment to go through.
The mobile banking app warning is mostly warning against scammers asking customers to 
move their money to another account, or copying Halifaxs phone number to make it look as 
though they are calling from Halifax. So I dont think it was specific enough to the investment 
scam Ms P was falling victim to, to be effective in these circumstances.
And in the phone call, Halifax mostly wants to make sure Ms P knows the person shes 
sending money to, has checked the bank details with them and isnt being pressured into 
making the payment. So, again, I dont think this was specific enough to be an effective 
warning in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Ms P was dishonest and told Halifax the payment was a loan to a friend to 
help them buy a house, rather than an investment. And that Halifax asked if she had been 
told to lie to it. But, for the same reasons I mentioned above, I think Ms P was given a logical 
reason why she should say the payment was for a loan. And Halifax didnt explain why it 
asked about whether she was told to lie or why this was important. So I still dont think its 
warnings were effective.
It therefore follows that I dont think Ms P ignored an effective warning in relation to the 
payment.
Overall then, I dont think Halifax has established that Ms P made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief or that she ignored an effective warning in relation to the 
payment. I therefore think Halifax should refund the money Ms P lost in full, under the terms 
of the CRM code.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, to:
Refund the £18,000 Ms P lost as a result of this scam
Pay the account interest rate on this refund from the date it initially rejected Ms Ps 
claim until the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman