DRN-4141010
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In March 2022, Mr S entered his debit card details into a legitimate-seeming website, to buy 
some electronic goods for about £360. The website owner did not send the goods, but 
instead used Mr Ss card details to make a purchase at Argos for a similar amount. Its 
recorded that this payment was authorised through Mr Ss Monzo app.
Mr S reported the scam, saying he didnt authorise the payment through his app.
Monzo explained they could try a chargeback, but Mr S would need to provide evidence of 
trying to sort things out with Argos first. They otherwise declined to refund the payment, as 
they found that Mr S had approved it via his app, so they considered the payment to be 
authorised. Monzo offered Mr S £20 compensation for customer service issues, which they 
later increased to £50 in total when the case came to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, arguing that Monzo should refund Mr S because hed 
been deceived into making the payment, rendering it unauthorised. Monzo asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Monzo a provisional decision on 19 April 2023, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr S fell victim to a convincing scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate this must 
have been highly frustrating for him, and I appreciate why he feels that his money should be 
returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily responsible for 
what happened, and who really owes Mr S his money back. But I can only consider what 
Monzo did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided 
so far, I dont currently think I can fairly hold Monzo liable for Mr Ss loss. Ill explain why.
I do understand that Mr S does not recall authorising the Argos payment through his app. 
But I can see from Monzos technical evidence that the payment was authenticated through 
a 3DSecure challenge on Mr Ss mobile banking app. This challenge was approved using 
Mr Ss PIN, on his registered mobile phone  the only device registered to the account. And 
it was done at an IP address Mr S used both before and after for his other genuine activity. 
So I can be reasonably satisfied that Mr S did authorise the disputed payment on his app, 
rather than the scammer somehow authorising it themselves.
From what I can see, Monzos 3DSecure challenge would have informed Mr S that the 
payment was to Argos  and not to the website hed given his card details to. And it would 
have given him the amount  which was slightly different to the amount Mr S thought hed be 
paying. So I think it wouldve been apparent what Monzo was asking Mr S to approve or 
reject. I can understand why Mr S may have authorised the payment by mistake, as he was 
expecting a payment of around that amount to go out. But Im afraid that he is still usually 
liable for the payments he authorises.
Our investigator argued that the payment was unauthorised because Mr S was deceived into 
approving it. But Im afraid that our investigator was mistaken. While Mr S would not have 
intended his money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations he is 
liable for the loss in the first instance, since he ultimately consented to it via his app. And 
broadly speaking, Monzo had an obligation to follow his instructions  the starting position in 
law is that banks are expected to process payments that a customer authorises them to 
make. Again, Im afraid Mr S is broadly responsible for the payments he authorises.
Ive thought carefully about whether Monzo should have flagged or blocked the payment. 
Monzo should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I dont think this payment was so unusual or 
out of character that Monzo needed to intervene. For example, it was just the one payment 
rather than rapid multiple payments, it was not nearly large enough that Id expect the 
amount to be flagged, and it went to a well-established merchant who Mr S had used before. 
Next, Ive considered what Monzo did to try to recover Mr Ss money after he told them 
about the scam. While there are methods for trying to recover funds lost to scams, they 
generally only apply to certain types of payments, like bank transfers  but they dont apply 
to card payments. And this payment was made by debit card. So Monzo were limited in what 
they could do to help.
Monzo did consider making a chargeback, which was the most appropriate way to try to get 
Mr Ss money back. I should explain that chargebacks are a voluntary process, so Monzo 
didnt have to raise one  though Id consider it good practice to do so. And I should also 
explain that Monzo had to follow the chargeback scheme rules set by MasterCard.
In order to start the chargeback, Monzo needed evidence that Mr S had tried to resolve 
things with Argos first, such as an email chain. I can see they explained this to Mr S a few 
times. And Im afraid that since Mr S didnt provide such evidence, its reasonable that they 
didnt proceed with the chargeback. Im afraid it is now too late for Monzo to do so, as too 
much time has passed.
In any case, I should explain that its unlikely a chargeback would have succeeded here. 
Chargebacks can only be made for certain reasons. For example, if a payment is 
unauthorised  but here, it was authorised through Mr Ss app. Or if the goods are not 
delivered  but here, its most likely that Argos did deliver the goods to the address they 
were told to. There was not a MasterCard chargeback reason which really covered the 
situation Mr S was in. So even if he had given Monzo evidence that hed tried to resolve 
things with Argos, Im afraid its most likely that he still would not have got a refund via the 
chargeback scheme. And there werent any other routes that Monzo could use to get his 
money back.So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S, I dont currently think that I can 
hold Monzo responsible for his loss. And so I cant fairly tell Monzo to refund Mr Ss money 
in this case.
Lastly, Ive thought about the overall service Monzo provided to Mr S. Theyve accepted that 
they initially handled his query incorrectly, and that they should have registered his complaint 
a bit earlier. I also appreciate that Mr S felt frustrated at having to deal with different agents. 
When it comes to compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to issue fines 
or to punish businesses, and that pursuing a complaint will never be completely hassle-free. 
And in this case, while I can appreciate that the customer service issues may have caused 
Mr S some frustration, Ive found that Monzo dealt with the issue at hand correctly overall. 
Taking everything into account, I think Monzos offer of £50 compensation in total is fair for 
the upset caused by their customer service issues.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 May 2023. Monzo accepted the provisional decision. Mr S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not award a refund in this case. Monzo Bank Ltd should 
pay Mr S the £50 compensation they offered, if theyve not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman