DRN-3698447
The complaint
Ms P complains about RAC Insurance Limited and their failure to provide her with assistance 
when she found herself abroad without access to her car keys following a fire at the hotel 
she was staying in.
What happened
Ms P purchased a European Breakdown policy provided by RAC on 18 April 2022, to cover 
her trip abroad between the days of 21  28 April. Unfortunately, on 23 April, the hotel Ms P 
was staying in suffered a fire, resulting in the loss of Ms Ps car keys. So, she called RAC for 
assistance, hoping to make a claim on her breakdown policy.
But RAC explained Ms P wasnt covered under the terms of the policy she took out. So, they 
explained they were unable to attend. But they did offer to tow Ms Ps car to a safe location 
as a gesture of goodwill, which Ms P declined. Ms P was unhappy with this and so, she 
raised a complaint upon her return to the UK.
Ms P didnt think RACs response to her situation was a fair one. She thought RAC shouldve 
taken into consideration her length of time as their customer, and the exceptional 
circumstances of her situation, and agreed to help her find a garage that would allow her 
access to her car. As RAC didnt do this, she thought RAC should reimburse her the 
premiums she paid for the policy, as the policy didnt assist her when she needed it.
RAC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had acted fairly, and 
within the terms of the policy, when deciding not to assist Ms P as any key related issues 
werent covered. And they felt it was a key issue Ms P was claiming for, as Ms P was unable 
to drive her car due to the loss of her keys in the hotel fire. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Ms P remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought RAC had acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when deciding not to assist Ms P. And 
because of this, although they recognised the inconvenience Ms P was caused, they thought 
RAC had acted fairly. So, they didnt think RAC should refund the premiums Ms P paid.
Ms P didnt agree. She maintained her view that RAC acted unfairly, as she believed they 
couldve done more to help her considering the amount of time she had been a customer. 
She explained she was left with an elderly lady and two teenagers in a foreign country with 
no access to transport and she thought these circumstances was exceptional enough for 
RAC to assist her in finding a garage, whether or not she was covered under the policy. So, 
she maintained her belief that RAC should refund the premiums she paid considering this.
Our investigator considered these points, but they didnt change their original view. Ms P 
remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms P. I appreciate Ms P took 
out the policy with the intention of protecting both her and her family in a situation where her 
car was unable to be used while she was aboard. So, when her car keys were lost in the 
hotel fire meaning she had no access to transport, I can understand why shed call RAC to 
utilise her policy and expect them to be able to assist her. And when RAC didnt provide this 
assistance, I can understand the worry and upset this wouldve caused Ms P in an already 
difficult and traumatic situations. So, I do understand why Ms P would feel as though the 
premiums she paid should be refunded to her.
But for me to say RAC should refund these premiums, Id first need to be satisfied RAC did 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that, when RAC chose not to provide Ms P 
with assistance, they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy. Or, if I did 
think they acted within these terms, that it was unfair for them to do so. And, while I 
recognise this will come as a disappointment to Ms P, I dont think this is the case in this 
situation.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Ms P held. These terms provided a definition 
for what they deemed to be a breakdown that would be covered under this policy. This 
explains:
breakdown/break down/broken down means an event during the policy period that stops the 
vehicle from being driven because of a mechanical or electrical failure including as a result 
of battery failure but not as a result of a mis-fuel, road traffic collision, fire, flood, theft, act of 
vandalism and driver induced fault, flat tyres or any key related issue.
I think this makes it clear exactly what would, and would not, be covered under the policy. 
And crucially, the terms explains clearly that anything involving fire, or a key related issue, 
wouldnt be covered. In this situation, Ms Ps keys were lost due to a hotel fire. While I 
appreciate the fire wasnt Ms Ps fault, nor could she have done anything to prevent this, I 
dont think this alters the fact her ability to use the car was lost due to a fire. And even more 
specifically, it was the fact the keys were lost within this far that prevented Ms P from using 
the car. And the term states any key related issue wont be covered. Because of this, I think 
RAC acted within the terms of the policy when deciding not to assist Ms P.
But as Ive explained above, I must also consider whether I think RAC were fair to rely on the 
terms and conditions in this specific situation. I appreciate Ms P doesnt think they were, due 
to her loyalty as a customer and the fact she was stranded in a foreign country with two 
children and her elderly mother. And this decision isnt intended to refute, or in any way 
dispute the clear upset and inconvenience Ms P wouldve felt at the time.
But crucially, I dont think I can say RAC acted unfairly here. RAC have confirmed they 
offered to tow Ms Ps car to a place of safety, which I think was a reasonable offer to make. I 
cant see this offer was taken up. But even if it was, this wouldnt have gained Ms P access 
to her car, which is essentially what she wanted. Although I recognise Ms P was a loyal customer to RAC, and she was in a clearly difficult 
situation, I dont think it would be fair for me to expect RAC to provide assistance to Ms P, 
which includes arranging for her car to be taken to a garage that would be able to gain 
access to her car or issue replacement keys. This is because if I were to say this, then 
essentially, Id be saying RAC shouldve accepted the claim under the policy, even though 
there wasnt an insurable event under the terms of the policy Ms P took out. And this isnt 
something I can fairly do.
And because of this, I dont think Im able to say RAC have done something wrong. So, it 
follows that Im unable to say RAC should refund Ms P the premiums she paid, as for the 
duration of the policy Ms P still received the benefit of being covered for other forms of 
breakdown that met the policy terms and conditions. While I appreciate Ms P didnt utilise 
the policy for these sorts of breakdowns, that doesnt mean RAC should then be asked to 
refund the premiums Ms P paid, as they still took on the risk for the agreed period of time. 
So, while I recognise this wont be the outcome Ms P was hoping for, I dont think RAC need 
to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about RAC Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman