DRN-3645711
The complaint
Miss Ws complained that Symmetric Systems Ltd (SSL) have invoiced her in respect of a 
claim to recover mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI), even though the claim was 
completed before she instructed them.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss W signed a letter of engagement, allowing SSL to act on her behalf to 
approach various lenders and claim refunds.  She signed various letters of authority, 
including one permitting SSL to approach a lender Ill call L.  SSL sent L a claim letter in 
August 2019.
In January 2020, L wrote to SSL advising them that Miss Ws claim had been raised on her 
behalf by a different claims management company (CMC).  L said their final response was 
issued in April 2019.
In mid-September, SSL wrote to L chasing a copy of their final response.  L replied on 28 
September 2020 and told SSL theyd issued their final response on 20 March 2019.  But the 
copy letter they enclosed (which was addressed to the previous CMC) was also dated 28 
September 2020.
Ls final response confirmed Miss W was due a refund of £5,719.93 before tax.  SSL asked 
Miss W to sign an acceptance form and invoiced her for their fee of £1,372.78.  They later 
added a late payment fee of £75 and claimed a total from Miss W of £1447.78.  When Miss 
W still didnt pay, SSL instructed a recovery agent.
Miss W didnt understand why she owed SSL the fee and asked to be provided with proof of 
what she owed.  She says SSL never replied to her queries.  So she brought her complaint 
to us.
When our investigator asked SSL for their business file, they reviewed the matter and 
concluded they hadnt addressed Miss Ws complaint properly.  They offered to reduce their 
invoice to £1,000 (inclusive of VAT) to resolve it.
Our investigator considered all the information available and concluded SSL needed to do 
more to resolve the complaint.  He was satisfied the correspondence from L showed Miss 
Ws claim had been resolved before shed instructed SSL.  So he thought they should cancel 
the invoice theyd sent her.  And he said SSL should pay Miss W £200 compensation to 
recognise the distress being chased for the debt had caused her.
Miss W agreed with the investigators view.  But SSL didnt.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the letter of engagement signed by Miss W.  It sets out the services SSL will 
provide, which include:
Securing settlement agreements or providing sufficient assistance for you to obtain 
settlement.
If they do that, the letter of engagement says SSL can charge a fee equivalent to 20% of the 
settlement, plus VAT.  So Ive thought about whether thats what SSL did here.
As mentioned in the previous section, L wrote to SSL telling them Miss Ws claim was 
completed before she instructed them.  When SSL requested a copy of Ls final response 
some months later, they received a copy which was dated 28 September 2020.  In their 
comments on the investigators view, SSL pointed out that was well after Miss W had 
instructed them.
I agree thats the case.  But the covering letter (which is also dated 28 September 2020) 
states the date of the final response it encloses is 20 March 2019.  Im aware that certain 
computer systems automatically date copy letters with the date theyre generated  even if 
the original was sent out much earlier.  So I asked for enquiries to be made of L to see if 
thats what happened in this case.
L told us they do use a system which auto-fills todays date.  And they confirmed the 
original final response was sent to Miss W on 20 March 2019  before she instructed SSL.  
Putting things right
On the basis Im satisfied the work done to secure the payment for Miss W wasnt done by 
SSL, I dont think theyre entitled to a fee for it.  So I think SSL should cancel both their 
original invoice for £1,447.78 and their reduced invoice of £1,000.  And they should advise 
any recovery agent pursuing Miss W for payment on their behalf of this.
And I agree with our investigator that SSL should pay Miss W £200 compensation as well.  
Im satisfied Miss W tried to find out why SSL were charging her and those requests for 
information werent dealt with.  Its clear this caused Miss W distress  for which I think she 
should be compensated.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about Symmetric Systems 
Ltd and directing them to:
Cancel both the original and reduced invoices relating to Miss Ws PPI claim to L;
Advise any debt recovery agent theyve instructed of the cancellation; and
Pay Miss W £200 compensation for the distress theyve caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman