DRN-3712576
The complaint
Mr E complains that Capital One (Europe) plc did not fairly compensate him in respect of a
complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
On or around 27 June 2019, Mr E instructed a claims management company (the CMC) to
assist him with a claim for mis-sold PPI. A letter of authority was sent to Capital One on his
behalf.
At some point in or around 2021, Capital One notified the CMC that it had paid Mr E
£2,296.56 by cheque to compensate him for mis-selling PPI. The CMC then started to chase
Mr E for the fees it said he owed. Mr E said he had not received any PPI compensation and
so he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and initially said that Capital One needed to reissue the
cheque to Mr E so that he could be paid. Capital One disagreed with our adjudicators view
and provided evidence that the cheque had been cashed into an account held by a third-
party business.
The matter was passed to me to make a final decision. I asked our adjudicator to make
some further enquiries of the third-party business. The third-party business told us that whilst
the cheque was paid into an account for someone with the same name as Mr E, his other
personal information was not the same. He was not the same person as to whom the
cheque had been paid or cashed.
Our adjudicator then wrote to Mr E and Capital One to say it appeared Capital One had
mistaken Mr E for someone else with the same name. Capital One then agreed this is what
had happened. It had not upheld Mr Es complaint and had mistakenly added his authority
form to a file about a different complainant with the same name. Capital One agreed to write
to the CMC that was chasing Mr E to explain its error. And it offered to pay £100 to Mr E to
compensate him for its mistake.
Our adjudicator asked Capital One to explain how it proposed to deal with the PPI enquiry
the CMC had made for Mr E. Capital One said it could not trace a PPI policy for Mr E. Our
adjudicator asked Mr E to send in any evidence he had of a PPI policy with Capital One. I 
understand Mr E doesnt have any documentation in that regard. 
My provisional decision
 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter as I intended to come to a different outcome to 
that of our adjudicator. I said: 
As things stand, it looks as though Capital One made a mistake when it said that it had
upheld a complaint made by Mr E and paid him compensation. Ive seen that the authority
form was added by Capital One to the wrong file and for a different person. Capital One had
not dealt substantively with the enquiry the CMC made on behalf of Mr E because it
mistakenly thought the correspondence was about someone else.
On that basis, I cant say it would be fair for Capital One to reissue the cheque to Mr E if it
was not intended for him and related to someone else.
I have noted that, at our adjudicators request, Capital One contacted the CMC to explain its
mistake and offered £100 to compensate Mr E for its mistake. I have carefully considered
whether this service can consider further the impact Capital Ones actions had on Mr E and if
further compensation should be awarded. Mr E appears to have been put to some
inconvenience and instructed his solicitor to deal with the matter on his behalf.
However, in considering a complaint, I have to must apply the rules for this service as set by
the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). Those rules are known as the DISP rules and
can be found online in the FCAs handbook.
In order for me to consider a complaint, I would need to be satisfied it was about a regulated
activity. In other words, Id have to see that it was a complaint about a financial service or
was ancillary to the provision of a financial service. Complaint handling is not a regulated
activity in its own right. As things stand, none of the evidence Ive seen so far suggests the
Mr E who brought the complaint to this service had a PPI policy with Capital One. From the
information I have, I cant say Capital One supplied a financial service to Mr E.
In applying the DISP rules then, the evidence Ive seen so far doesnt suggest Mr E had a
PPI policy. So I cant look at the impact of Capital Ones mistake on Mr E or whether the
£100 compensatory payment it offered to him is fair.
With all of this in mind, my decision is that Capital One doesnt have to reissue the cheque
because it was not intended for Mr E. It is a matter for Mr E as to whether he accepts Capital
Ones compensatory offer of £100. But for the reasons set out above, my view is that I
cannot consider that matter any further. That means I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Capital One responded to say it had nothing further 
to add. Through his representative, Mr E told us that he was concerned if Capital One had 
made the mistake identified above, it may also have made a mistake in stating that he did 
not have a PPI policy. He did not think it would be right if Capital One failed to pursue his 
claim and thus make a second mistake in so doing. He recalled being informed by Capital 
One that he had a PPI policy on an account which ran from 1998 to 2002.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional view that Capital One did not have to reissue 
the cheque, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings on that point. 
I have given careful consideration to the point made by Mr E about whether he had a PPI 
policy. I have reconsidered what Capital One told our adjudicator and I can see that it states 
it has no record of an account held by Mr E within its electronic systems. 
I know Mr E recalled being told by Capital One that he had an account that ran from 1998 to 
2002. I think its quite possible that Capital One did give Mr E that information. However, the evidence Ive seen suggests that the account that ran from 1998 to 2002 related to the man 
with whom Mr E had been confused. Put simply, from the information Ive seen, the account 
that ran from 1998 to 2002 did not belong to the Mr E who has brought this complaint.  
On that basis, Capital One says it has no information to suggest Mr E had an account with it. 
And Mr E has not been able to provide me with any evidence to suggest he had a policy 
either. Without any information that PPI was sold, I cant ask our adjudicator to consider 
whether there was a related mis-sale. As I cannot see any evidence of a PPI sale, I cannot 
consider how Capital One has handled Mr Es complaint because it is not linked to a 
regulated activity. 
I am very sorry to disappoint Mr E. I can see why he feels very disappointed with how 
Capital One has handled this case. For the reasons set out above, as there is no regulated 
activity in this matter, Im afraid I cannot require Capital One to take any further action.  
My final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc does not need to re-issue the cheque of £2,296.56 because it was 
not intended for Mr E. On balance, PPI was not likely sold to Mr E, so I cannot consider the 
manner in which Capital One (Europe) plc handled his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman