DRN-1936802
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, fraudulently 
altered the term of a loan on a credit agreement he signed in September 2017.
What happened
Everyday Loans lent Mr D £5,500 in September 2017, which was to be repaid over 36 
months of monthly repayments of £394.97.
Mr D says that he went to Everyday Loans office to sort out the loan, which he understood 
was to be repaid over 24 months, not 36. He says that he left the office believing everything 
was in order, but then received a call in his car from the Everyday Loans representative to 
say that there was a problem with the paperwork. He says the agent then followed him and 
met him at the roadside where he signed a new credit agreement. Mr D says he believed the 
term of the loan continued to be 24 months, and no one told him he was signing up to a 36-
month term.
Everyday Loans has no information about Mr D signing at the roadside, but its 
documentation consistently showed a term of 36 months. It didnt uphold his complaint. Our 
adjudicator looked at everything and didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that 
Everyday Loans had acted fraudulently and misled Mr D into signing a credit agreement for 
a longer term than hed agreed.
Mr D doesnt accept that. He continues to insist that the term of the loan should have been 
24 months and asked for an Ombudsman to consider his case.
It seems that Everyday Loans accepts it made a mistake when giving Mr D information on 
the phone in 2019 about how much he had left to pay, but that has been resolved and is not 
the focus of this complaint, so will not be discussed in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but Im not upholding his complaint.
This case is finely balanced, and Mr Ds consistent testimony on the key point is important. 
Everyday Loans is unable to refute any of the detail about him signing fresh paperwork on 
the roadside, and I have no reason to doubt his recollections on that point.
However, to make a finding that Everyday Loans acted fraudulently in deliberately tricking 
him into signing a credit agreement with a longer loan term, I would need more evidence 
than I have. In cases such as these I have to make my decision based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened, and I havent seen enough to make me think Everyday Loans 
deceived Mr D in the way he suggests.
Firstly, the paperwork weve received only mentions a term of 36 months. I cant find any 
reference to 24 months anywhere.
Secondly, I can see that Mr D contacted Everyday Loans several times in the Spring and 
Summer of 2019 querying the balance remaining and how much longer he needed to keep 
making repayments. But none of these entries mentions any belief on Mr Ds part that the 
term of the loan was 24 months, and so he was expecting it to naturally conclude soon. In 
fact, he was understandably querying the balance following some payment difficulties he had 
in late 2017 and early 2018, when he missed payments, or made reduced ones. However, 
he then increased his repayments when his circumstances improved in August 2018. So the 
exact balance wasnt immediately obvious either to him, or seemingly the Everyday Loans 
representatives that he spoke to on the phone. But I would expect to see some reference to 
him raising this concern about the loan term around that time if he was certain it was only 24 
months.
I realise that Mr D may feel that I am unfairly doubting his word, which I would like to 
reassure him Im not. Im sure he has told us what are now his genuinely held recollections 
of what happened nearly four years ago. But I have to consider all the evidence in the case, 
and I havent seen anything additional which support his belief that Everyday Loans 
deceived him in order to be able to charge him additional interest. Of course I accept that is 
possible, but there is insufficient evidence for me to be able to conclude that is most likely 
what happened.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Everyday Loans doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman