DRN-3982218
The complaint
The estate of Mrs W complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited trading as NRAM 
recommended that she switch her entire mortgage to a fixed rate, rather than keeping the 
existing borrowing on a tracker rate.
What happened
In 2003, Mrs W took a lifetime mortgage with NRAM  formerly Northern Rock. That 
mortgage had a tracker rate, that is an interest rate that tracked the Bank of England base 
rate (the base rate). The rate was capped, so it would not be higher than 8.49%
In 2007, Mrs W asked NRAM to borrow more money. It said she should repay her existing 
mortgage and take all of the borrowing on a fixed interest rate. Mrs Ws son  who is 
executor of her estate  complains this was bad advice. He considers that Mrs W should 
have been told to keep her existing borrowing on a tracker rate and to take a further advance 
on a fixed rate and that the fees charged by NRAM were excessive and unfair. He said that 
Mrs W was elderly, vulnerable and financially inexperienced.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs Ws son did not accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, 
including:
If the variable rate available in 2007 was similar to the fixed rate, it was not clear why 
Mrs W would have wanted to change. If a mortgage professional could not predict what 
would happen to interest rates, how could Mrs W be in a position to do so? 
When Mrs W took out the original mortgage she received advice from an independent 
adviser who recommended a variable rate mortgage. There was no way that Mrs W 
would have later decided to switch to a fixed rate because she was concerned about 
rates going up.
It makes no sense that Mrs W was charged £1,365 in fees to borrow £11,311. A court 
would regard that as an extortionate credit bargain if it were a consumer credit 
agreement. And not only did Mrs W have to pay the fee, she paid interest on it for the 
duration of the mortgage. 
Its bizarre that NRAM could not offer a further advance. He did not understand why 
this would mean that monthly payments were necessary. We should get evidence of 
that.
We should obtain evidence whether the sale of the mortgage counted towards the 
branchs sales figures on which bonuses were based.
Between June 2003 and January 2008 the base rate changed 11 times both increase 
and decreases. The base rate decreased in December 2007 from 5.75% to 5.5% - so it 
was on a downward trajectory at the tie in question.
If NRAM could not make a further advance under the existing mortgage, then it should 
have advised Mrs W it was not cost effective for her to pay £1,365 in fees to raise 
£11,311. By doing so it failed to act in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
high level principles.
Mrs W was vulnerable and NRAM ought to have identified that. It should have told her to 
get advice from an independent financial adviser or at least to have a friend or relative 
with her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In determining what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I must take into account the relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice that 
were in place at the time in question. The initial sale here was before mortgage regulation. 
And the rules regarding the sale of equity release mortgages have changed since the time of 
advice in 2007.
In saying that, the same sales standards applied to NRAM as they would to an independent 
adviser. So I am holding NRAM to the same rules that would apply to anyone who gave Mrs 
W advice in relation to a lifetime mortgage.
Generally, it would not be good advice to recommend a variable rate without a cap for a 
lifetime mortgage. It could expose borrowers to the risk of interest rates going up. I note that 
he current Equity Release Council product standards say that for lifetime mortgages the 
rate must be fixed for each release or, if variable the rate must be capped for the life of the 
loan. In my experience, it is unusual to see a variable rate on a lifetime mortgage.
I appreciate with hindsight it might have been cheaper for Mrs W to retain her initial lifetime 
mortgage on a variable rate. But it does not follow that the advice given in 2007 was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
The variable rate on the existing mortgage was 2.25% above the base rate, capped at 
8.49%. At the time of advice the interest rate Mrs W was paying was 7.75%. The new fixed 
rate of 7.79% was marginally more expensive. But it gave Mrs W the certainty of knowing 
how much she would pay over the life of the mortgage. 
I note the point Mrs Ws son makes about the changes in interest rates. But that only shows 
that there was a lot more movement in the base rate before 2009. So I can see why a 
borrower in those circumstances might want the stability of a fixed rate. 
In any event, it was not for NRAM or Mrs W to predict what would happen to interest rates in 
the future. The relevant rules only required NRAM to consider current interest rates and to 
recommend a mortgage that was appropriate for Mrs Ws needs, objectives and 
circumstances. 
Looking at the evidence we have, I cant see any reason why the new mortgage was not 
suitable for Mrs W. To put it the other way, Mrs Ws son has not put forward a compelling 
argument why remaining on a variable rate was the right thing for Mrs W, other than the fact 
we know now that it would have been cheaper for Mrs W to retain the variable rate. But it 
would not be reasonable for me to find either that NRAM or Mrs W could have predicted that 
the base rate would reduce to a historic low level and remain that way for over ten years.Its not clear we have all of the information from the time of the sale. That is not unusual 
given the passage of time. There is nothing in the evidence we do have which would show 
that the mortgage was unsuitable for Mrs W.
NRAM has told us that if Mrs W took a further advance, it would require her to make 
payments. I have no reason to doubt what NRAM has told us. Its clear this would not have 
been suitable for Mrs W. It follows, that the option Mrs Ws son thinks should have been 
offered to her, was not actually available. I also note that the evidence we do have states 
that NRAM required the existing mortgage to be repaid.
I dont consider the fees applied by NRAM were extortionate. The total fee payable to NRAM 
was £1,365. That was made up of a product fee of £995 and a mortgage review fee of £395. 
A product fee of that amount for a fixed rate is not unusual or excessive in my experience. 
The mortgage review fee of £365 reflects the costs of closing down the existing mortgage. 
Such fees arent unusual and the amount is not out of line with what other lenders charge.
The key facts information document given to Mrs W states that no commission was paid to 
NRAM. I dont know if the sale of this mortgage contributed to any sales targets there may or 
may not have been. But as Ive found that the mortgage was likely to be suitable for Mrs W, I 
dont see how this could make any difference to the outcome here.
And while I agree that it is likely that Mrs W was vulnerable, the FCAs guidance on 
vulnerability only developed from 2015. In saying that, I agree that it is likely to be fair and 
reasonable for NRAM to understand that Mrs W was vulnerable and to adapt its approach 
accordingly. But Ive already found the mortgage was suitable for her. There was no reason 
why NRAM should have told Mrs W to obtain independent advice or have a friend or relative 
present.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman