DRN-2630291
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt refunded her money 
after a tradesman failed to complete works at her home. 
Shes also unhappy with how the bank has handled the matter.
What happened
Mrs C needed some works carried out in her garden. She found a tradesman on Facebook 
and saw that he had good reviews. She got in contact with him and arrangements were 
made for the work to be carried out. 
The tradesman got underway with the job and Mrs C made several payments to the 
tradesman as work progressed. She made six payments, totalling £2,850, over the course of 
a month as things moved forward.
But the job seemed to stall when there was still work to be done. Mrs Cs garden hadnt been 
turfed and fencing hadnt been completed, amongst other issues. 
Mrs C has provided us with messages she sent and received form the tradesman from the 
point at which the work stopped. There are a lot of messages back and forth. Mrs C 
repeatedly asks when the work will be completed and the tradesman makes repeated 
promises to finish the work. Its apparent the tradesman then didnt turn up as agreed and 
would often cite poor weather as his reason for being unable to complete the job. Other 
reasons included his own ill health or that of his child.
The messages show this delay went on for several weeks until Mrs C decided she didnt 
want the tradesman to finish the work and so she asked for her money back. She didnt hear 
from him again and he seemed to block her communications.
Mrs C reported the matter to NatWest and asked it to help her get her money back. But it 
told her it wouldnt be able to help as works had started and so shed have to seek a 
resolution elsewhere.
Mrs C contacted the bank a few more times over the months that followed. Shes said how 
she was given conflicting information and is unhappy that she wasnt put in touch with the 
fraud team from the beginning. That only happened after shed spoken to the bank several 
times, over several months. Mrs C complained about how NatWest had dealt with her. 
NatWest responded and confirmed it wouldnt be able to help her recover her money. It said 
the matter was a civil dispute between her and the tradesman. That was because it 
understood work had been started and carried out but not completed. In reaching that 
conclusion it did investigate the account where funds were received but found nothing of 
concern that would suggest Mrs C had been the victim of a scam.
NatWest did acknowledge it could have been clearer in its communications with Mrs C. And 
so it paid £150 into her account to recognise the poor service and to compensate for the cost 
of calls Mrs C had made to the bank.
Mrs C wasnt happy with the banks response and so brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the 
matter was a civil dispute too and couldnt see there was persuasive evidence that Mrs C 
had been scammed. 
She noted this meant there was little the bank could do to assist Mrs C. It wasnt able to 
attempt to recover funds from the recipient account. She also thought about the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code), which NatWest is subscribed to and so 
also considered its obligations under it. But she did not think Mrs C had been the victim of a 
scam and so the CRM Code didnt apply in her case.
Mrs C was unhappy with the outcome and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision. Mrs C said she ought to have been able to pay by card, a service the bank hasnt 
been able to provide her with. And she restated that she was unhappy with how the bank 
had handled her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which NatWest has 
signed up to, and was in force at the time Mrs C made the payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mrs C made and, in particular, whether NatWest ought to 
reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments made by Mrs C formed part of a civil 
dispute and so arent covered by the CRM Code. Im satisfied that is how the dispute should 
be recognised, rather than it being a scam. 
I can see why Mrs C is angry and upset about whats happened to her. It seems quite clear 
from the messages between her and the tradesman that she hasnt gotten what she wanted. 
But that doesnt mean this was a scam or that she is due a refund under the CRM Code.
Thats not to say things havent gone wrong, that the tradesman has acted fairly or that she 
isnt potentially due some recompense from him. It seems quite clear the tradesman repeatedly delayed finishing Mrs Cs job and there are numerous promises broken and 
excuses given. But the circumstances dont suggest this was a scam from the outset or that 
the tradesman wasnt a legitimate supplier.
Work was carried out, at least to an extent, and there have been representations from the 
tradesman (obtained through the bank investigating the recipient account) that suggest 
Mrs C got all she paid for, with more due for outstanding work. And so it would appear Mrs C 
and the tradesman have a disagreement about what was paid for and what was supplied. 
Even if Mrs C had in fact paid the full balance, the evidence and circumstances still suggest 
the tradesman was a legitimate supplier, even though he may have ultimately broken the 
agreement between him and Mrs C.
Im not saying that Mrs C hasnt lost out here. And I can see from her conversations with the 
tradesman, the bank, and our service that she feels let down and angry. I can understand 
why. But there isnt persuasive evidence here to suggest Mrs C has been the victim of scam 
or that the tradesman wasnt a legitimate party. The evidence shows a breakdown in the 
relationship between Mrs C and the tradesman after work had been started, followed by a 
disagreement over what the money sent covered in terms of the work done and work still to 
be done.
Making payments by card
Mrs C has said the bank hasnt given her the facility to pay for goods/service like this using 
her card. She believes that if it had then she would have been able to pay by card and been 
protected. Shes talked about not being supplied with a card reader and that this is a long 
outstanding problem. 
Im not going to talk about the supplying of a card reader here as it doesnt form part of this 
complaint. Its something Mrs C would have to raise with NatWest as a complaint first. But I 
think Mrs C has misunderstand when the purchase of goods/services might be protected 
through the use of a card.
Such protection would only be offered if the merchant accepted card payments. That might 
be by way of using a physical point of sale card machine (and, typically, a chip and PIN 
transaction) or by accepting card payments online. The merchant would have a specific 
facility for taking payments direct from a customers card. The card is the payment 
instrument used to authorise the transactions. And that might bring in the protection offered 
by a chargeback scheme. Or there might be additional protection if a credit card is used.
But Mrs C seems to be talking about using her card to authorise payments through her 
online banking. Whilst the card might be used to as a security feature for such payments, the 
transaction is still a transfer of money from one bank account to another. It isnt a card 
payment and so doesnt offer the same protection. 
NatWests handling of the matter
I can see NatWest told Mrs C it wouldnt be able to help when she first contacted it about her 
problems with the tradesman. And so it did give her the correct information from the outset. I 
dont think NatWest had to raise a fraud case when Mrs C first got in touch as it provided her 
with a suitable explanation as to why it was unable to help. 
There does then seem to be further contact initiated by Mrs C over the course of several 
months and it seems as though messages have become confused. I can see that NatWest has recognised this and paid Mrs C £150 in compensation. That 
seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman