DRN-3285749
Complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded him after he was the victim of two
scams.
Background
Mr Y has an account with Monzo. In June 2020, he fell victim to two different scams in quick
succession. He made payments from his Monzo account to the scammers in each case.
The first related to an advert he saw on social media for a scooter. He was interested and so
contacted the seller. He agreed to pay £120. The scooter in question would typically sell for
around £300-600 and so he was happy hed secured it for a good price. He was told to go to
a specific location and make the payment. Shortly after he did so, he realised hed been
blocked on the social media platform by the seller. At this point, he was suspicious and
thought he might have fallen victim to a scam. He wanted to get in touch with Monzo to ask
for its help. Unfortunately, this led to him falling victim to the second scam.
He searched online using his phone for a Monzo customer services number. He found it
displayed on a website that had some similarity with Monzos but was in fact a fake. He
tapped the hyperlink for the customer services number which redirected him to an entirely
different number. As a result, he believed hed contacted Monzos customer services team,
but was actually speaking to the second scammer.
Mr Y says that the scammer told him to download a remote-access app to his phone  this
enabled them to see activity on his screen. The scammer asked him to transfer funds from a
savings account he held with a different business into his Monzo account. Its not clear what
reason he was given for making these transfers. Nonetheless, he made two transfers of
£1,000 and £1,120 respectively. The scammer then told him that a new savings account had
been set up for him and that he needed to transfer the funds from his Monzo account into
this new account. In total, Mr Y transferred £2,120 to the account which was controlled by
the scammers.
Shortly afterwards, he realised that hed fallen victim to a scam. He contacted Monzo and
asked it to refund his losses. Monzo declined. In connection with the second scam, it said 
Mr Y hadnt done enough to check that what he was being asked to do was legitimate. It also
said that it wouldve displayed a warning as part of this process  it didnt argue that the
warning was an Effective Warning within the meaning of the relevant rules, but it said it
was clear and impactful. Mr Y said he doesnt remember seeing any warning when making
the second payment.
Mr Y was unhappy with the response he received from Monzo and so referred a complaint to
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who considered whether Monzo shouldve
paid a refund to Mr Y under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code.
The Investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said that Mr Y shouldnt be paid a refund
in connection with the first scam. She thought that the price of the scooter shouldve been a
warning sign to Mr Y that the offer was too good to be true. She didnt think that he had a
reasonable basis for believing that the person he was paying was legitimate.
However, the Investigator upheld the complaint regarding the second scam. She thought
that Monzo couldnt rely on its warning as a basis for declining to pay a refund. Mr Y had
downloaded a remote access application which might have allowed the scammer to prevent
him from seeing the warning on his device. She was also satisfied that Mr Y had a
reasonable basis for believing that the person he was speaking to was an employee of the
bank and so what he was being asked do was legitimate.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators view for several reasons. It said:
It had contacted the provider of the remote access software to ask it for more details 
about how its software worked. It was told that Mr Y was using an iPhone with the 
iOS operating system. This meant the remote access software was limited in terms of 
its functionality  it wouldve allowed the scammers to see the information displayed 
on Mr Ys screen, but it wouldnt have allowed them to take control of the device.
The fake Monzo site had only superficial similarities with the real Monzo site. Mr Y 
shouldve noticed the discrepancies and proceeded cautiously.
There wasnt any obvious reason why Mr Y would think making an outbound 
payment of over £1,000 would help him to get back a refund of £120. Monzo says Mr 
Y is an experienced customer who is familiar with how online banking works and 
shouldve recognised that this proposal was unusual.
The Monzo app displays the logo of the receiving bank when making an outbound 
payment. Mr Y was apparently told he was making these payments to a Monzo 
savings account in his name, but it wouldve been clear on the app that he wasnt 
making the payment to a Monzo account. He should have regarded this as 
suspicious.
Because Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me.
I came to a different view to that of the Investigator on the second scam. I thought that
Monzo couldve done more to protect Mr Y from this scam. I agreed that it was likely that the
warning had been displayed on Mr Ys phone at the time he made the payment. It wasnt an
Effective Warning as defined in the CRM code, but I thought it should have made Mr Y
pause and reflect on whether or not to proceed with the payment. I considered Mr Ys belief
that these payments were legitimate was no longer reasonable after hed seen the warning.
However, I was concerned that Mr Y appeared to have informed Monzo that he was making
this payment to a safe account. Monzo should have recognised that, as a safe account
isnt a legitimate concept, it was highly likely that Mr Y was making this payment in
connection with a scam.
I recommended it pay Mr Y 50% of his losses in connection with the second scam because,
while Mr Y had made these payments without a reasonable basis of belief in their legitimacy,
Monzo couldve done more to protect him. Monzo agreed to settle the complaint on that
basis, but Mr Y didnt accept its offer.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 18 January 2022 in the following terms:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. Theres no dispute here that Mr Y authorised these payments.
However, Monzo has agreed to follow to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). Under that code, a firm is expected 
to reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr Y. There are a 
limited set of circumstances set out in the code in which a firm can choose not to 
reimburse its customer.
One such circumstance is where it can be demonstrated that the customer made the
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
The code also sets out standards for firms  that is, what firms are expected to do to 
protect customers from the risk of fraud and scams. Where those standards are not 
met, the firm may be expected to compensate its customer even if the customer 
ought to have been more careful before making the payment. One of those 
requirements is that, where the firm has (or should have) identified that its customer 
is at risk from a scam, it should provide that customer with an Effective Warning, 
within the meaning of the CRM code.
Ive kept these considerations in mind when considering the two scams.
The first scam
I understand Monzo didnt display a warning when Mr Y made this payment, but as I
explained above its obligation to do so becomes active when theres a risk of a scam. 
Im satisfied that it didnt have any real basis for thinking Mr Y was at risk of falling 
victim to a scam given that the value of the payment was relatively low.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Y had a reasonable basis for believing that the sale of 
the scooter was legitimate. The price was some way below market value and Id have 
expected Mr Y to have proceeded more cautiously to ensure the legitimacy of the 
sale. Overall, Im not persuaded Monzo is required to reimburse him for this loss.
Scam two
Mr Y says he doesnt remember seeing a warning when making these payments and 
its been suggested that the remote access software he downloaded might have 
affected whether he saw the warning. The device was an iPhone and it wasnt 
jailbroken  i.e. it was using the iOS operating system. The suppliers of the app he 
downloaded have confirmed that it wouldnt have enabled a user to manipulate the 
information Mr Y saw on his screen. It would simply have enabled them to see 
everything that he saw on the screen. On balance, I think its more likely than not that 
the warning was displayed although its understandable that Mr Y might not 
remember.I agree that this wasnt an Effective Warning, but I think it shouldve resonated with 
Mr Y to some extent. Monzo has provided screenshots of the payment process. It 
shows Mr Y wouldve been asked to categorise the payment. He selected the option 
Transfer to a safe account The warning unambiguously says Stop, dont pay in 
large text and then underneath it says: Its very likely that this is a scam. The button 
Mr Y needed to press to continue with the payment was greyed out until Mr Y 
selected a tick box next to a confirmatory statement further up the page  reducing 
the risk that the account holder might mechanistically select the option at the bottom 
of the page. A further statement would pop up in a dialogue box if the customer 
chose to proceed saying Are you sure? Once you make a payment, its almost 
impossible to get the money back.
I find it surprising that Mr Y would continue with the payment after being presented 
with a warning in these terms. Monzo can decline to pay a refund under the CRM if 
Mr Y made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the intended 
recipient was legitimate. After seeing this warning and taking into account the 
circumstances in which he was being asked to make these payments, I dont think he 
can be said to have reasonably believed that he was genuinely interacting with an 
employee of the bank.
However, Ive also considered whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr Y here. Im 
mindfulof the fact that, in order to see this warning, Mr Y needed to categorise this as 
a payment to a safe account. Theres no such thing as a safe account outside the 
realm of fraud and scams. Indeed, the payment category has the term safe account 
within quotation marks implying that its not a legitimate concept. I think that once it 
gathered this information from Mr Y, it shouldve recognised that it was highly likely 
that he was making the payment in connection with a scam.
Because I think Monzo couldve done more to protect Mr Y from the second scam by
recognising that it was a safe account scam, I think it should fairly and reasonably 
refund 50% of his losses in connection with that scam  essentially, I think both 
parties should bear some responsibility for the loss Mr Y suffered.
Monzo responded and agreed to pay compensation in line with my recommendations. Mr Y 
was quite understandably disappointed by my findings. Theres no question that hes been 
the victim of a cruel scam and he has my sympathy for what hes been through. However, 
Im satisfied that when applying the CRM Code and the broader considerations set out 
above, that Monzo cant fairly and reasonably be expected to compensate him in full. Im 
therefore issuing a final decision upholding the complaint in part for the same reasons I 
described in my provisional findings.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
If Mr Y accepts my decision, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to:
Refund 50% of Mr Ys losses in connection with the second scam.
Add 8% simple interest to those payments from the date they left his account until the 
date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman