DRN-3700492
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, did not review and 
reduce the credit limit on her credit card. 
What happened
Mrs Hs credit card account was opened in 1998 and her credit limit is currently £9,250. Mrs 
H says that she was earning a good salary in 1998 and was able to manage the repayments. 
However, she says that over the past four years, Barclays allowed her to almost reach her 
credit limit without undertaking any further checks. She said it had not reviewed her account 
as it should have done and if it had, it would have reduced her credit limit. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs H had managed 
her account well and the information Barclays had would not have triggered a review into her 
account. He noted Mrs H had another credit card account with a different financial business 
and said this account appeared to be well run by Mrs H, who made regular repayments. 
Mrs H did not agree with our investigators view. She said that her credit card repayments 
constituted almost 50% in interest and she had almost reached her credit limit on some 
occasions. Mrs H said she often received letters about persistent debt in respect of her 
other credit card, so she was not managing this account well. Mrs H said she was a 
vulnerable customer and that if Barclays had taken extra care, it would have made a 
different lending decision in her case. She said that she was going without basic necessities 
to meet her minimum credit card repayments. 
As Mrs H did not agree with our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld her 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing I want to clear up is what I can look at when Im considering this complaint. I 
know that when the complaint was initially referred to us, Barclays said it didnt think we 
could consider it because Mrs H had brought it too late. Mrs H then clarified that her 
complaint was not about the decision of Barclays to lend to her in the first place in 1998, but 
about the decision of Barclays to allow her indebtedness to increase over the past few years. 
Mrs H told us she was not in difficulty in 2017. 
The complaint form indicates Mrs H was not happy with Barclays continuing to lend to her 
and allowing her to almost reach her credit limit without undertaking further checks for the 
past four years. With that in mind, Ive looked at things from 2018 onwards. I havent 
considered whether Barclays was irresponsible to lend to Mrs H in the first place in 1998 
because she has not complained about that. 
Mrs Hs credit limit with Barclays is £9,250 and that credit limit has not changed since 2018. 
In her correspondence to this service, Mrs H said that Barclays had not undertaken 
reasonable and proportionate checks before allowing her indebtedness to increase. She said 
it had undertaken no assessment of affordability from 2020 onwards, which was clearly 
irresponsible lending. She also told us that Barclays should have realised it was allowing her 
to increase her indebtedness when she was using her card and that her increased borrowing 
was not sustainably affordable. 
However, Barclays wouldnt usually be expected to undertake the checks and affordability 
assessments Mrs H referred me to unless it was considering whether to increase her credit 
limit. It wouldnt be required to check whether Mrs Hs spending was affordable every time 
she used her card. 
Nonetheless, Mrs H told us that she is a vulnerable consumer and that Barclays should have 
taken more care in handling her credit card account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays 
should have recognised any vulnerability and if there was any action Barclays should have 
reasonably taken arising from that. Ive also looked at whether there are any factors that 
should have caused Barclays to think Mrs H was or may have been in financial difficulties,  
and if it did, whether it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have reduced her credit 
limit. 
The terms and conditions relating to Mrs Hs credit card account say that Barclays will set 
her credit limit according to her circumstances and various other factors. Those factors 
include how she used her credit card, information from credit reference agencies and any 
other information it thinks is relevant. The terms and conditions say that Barclays will review 
her account from time to time and that if the credit limit is to be changed, it will write to her to 
let her know. As there have been no changes to the credit limit, Barclays couldnt tell us 
whether it had, in fact, undertaken a review of Mrs Hs credit card account. 
I know Mrs H told us that she is a vulnerable consumer. But I cant see that any vulnerability 
was disclosed to Barclays. And looking at the information Barclays had, I dont think it would 
have reasonably identified a vulnerability. I say this because whilst I appreciate Mrs H had 
started to use her credit card more than she usually did from 2018 onwards, she kept within 
her credit limit and she had not missed any repayments. Mrs H provided us with her credit 
report, which showed her credit score as excellent and she did not appear to be behind with 
her repayments. I appreciate Mrs H told us she was going without basic necessities to meet 
these minimum payments. But from what Ive seen, I cant say Barclays would have 
reasonably known that. 
I cant see that Barclays was alerted to any difficulties from the information it would have 
received from the credit reference agencies either. For example, Mrs H had no defaults or 
county court judgments. She had not entered into any payment arrangements with any 
creditors. Barclays told us it had not received any information from the credit reference 
agencies to suggest Mrs H was overindebted. I know Mrs H says she was overindebted at 
the time. But Im looking at what Barclays would have reasonably been aware of. It doesnt 
look as though the credit reference agencies had reported any over-indebtedness or 
difficulties to Barclays at the material time. 
In the response to this service, Mrs H told us that her repayments were close to constituting 
50% interest and so she thought this should have been a trigger for Barclays to look more 
closely at her account. 
I think what Mrs H is referring to here is Barclays responsibilities if she was in persistent 
debt. Persistent debt is defined by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) as being 
circumstances in which a person has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve 
paid off the amount they borrowed in the preceding 18 months. Mrs H and Barclays agree 
that she had not met this threshold. I cant reasonably say Barclays did not treat Mrs H fairly 
in not lowering her credit card limit because she may have been approaching this threshold. 
Looking at this the other way, I wouldnt be able to say Barclays would have acted fairly in restricting an account that had not met the FCAs threshold for persistent debt that an 
account holder wanted to use. 
Mrs H did start regularly making minimum payments in 2018, as opposed to the larger 
payments she was making before this. That wasnt enough to mean that she would be 
classified as being in persistent debt though and while sometimes this can be a sign of 
financial difficulties  I dont think this alone would have been cause for Barclays to have 
taken any further action in the overall circumstances.
Putting all of this together, I dont think Barclays would have reasonably been aware that Mrs 
H could have been a vulnerable consumer. And from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it 
would reasonably have been aware that she may be in financial difficulties. So, I havent 
upheld her complaint. 
That said, upon receipt of my decision, Barclays will now be aware that Mrs H may be in 
financial difficulty and have a vulnerability. If it has not done so already, it may wish to 
consider whether it now needs to take appropriate action to assist her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman