DRN-4401013
The complaint
Ms H complains about the outcome of a claim she made to Santander UK Plc under   
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
What happened
Ms H booked a package tour with a company Ill call L in 2020 and paid a deposit to them 
using her credit card with Santander UK Plc (Santander). 
In 2022, Ms H went on the tour having paid the balance of the booking with her debit card. 
She complained to Santander when she returned asking for a full refund of the booking as 
she felt the tour was substandard. Ms H said: 
The coach she travelled on was not the same as the one shed been promised and 
was uncomfortable throughout.
The coach had tinted windows so she couldnt see the scenery.
The drivers were replaced with someone who was rude and couldnt speak much 
English, so they werent given information during the tour. 
All the hotels were given her name incorrectly which caused her problems boarding 
ferries.
Some of the hotels were substandard in that the bedrooms were dirty and had no 
facilities that would normally be expected such as a TV, phone, hairdryer, and kettle.
One of the hotels was several kilometres away from the town she was meant to stay 
in and there was nothing to do in that area. She also wasnt given information about 
how she been picked up from that hotel to continue the tour.
She was left waiting for several hours to be taken home because of delays to other 
coaches.  
Santander declined Ms Hs claim made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) and didnt uphold her subsequent complaint. They said she should have 
exhausted all other avenues with L, such as raising this with ATOL and/or ABTA. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Ms H hadnt provided enough 
evidence about certain aspects of her claim such as the standard of the hotels or the coach. 
And it was difficult for her to show other aspects such as the allegation of the driver being 
rude and the bookings showing her name incorrectly. Our investigator felt Santander hadnt 
handled Ms Hs complaint correctly by saying she needed to explore other options. But she 
felt it wouldnt have made a difference if they had dealt with this correctly. 
Ms H didnt agree. She said L had told her about the coach being downgraded but they 
didnt keep to this as they provided a coach used by a football team. Ms H also said no-one 
had told her there would be no tour guide or an English-speaking driver for certain parts of 
the tour. And she referenced a programme on TV where a member of the tour party had 
made the same allegations as she had about the tour. 
Ms Hs complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which essentially sets 
out that, in certain circumstances, if Ms H paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on 
her Santander credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier (in the case L), Santander can be held responsible. Im satisfied the necessary 
criteria for a Section 75 claim to be made by Ms H was met. 
Ill firstly comment on Santanders response to Ms Hs complaint about her claim. They said, 
incorrectly, that Ms H couldnt make a claim because she hadnt exhausted other avenues 
available to her. This isnt correct. Ms H was entitled to make a claim and theres nothing 
within the requirements of Section 75 that she had to do what Santander suggested. As Ive 
set out above, Santander can be held responsible for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So, they should have looked at the substance of the claim 
she had made. I hope that Santander takes my comments on board for any future claims 
that are brought to them. 
However, although I find that Santander didnt deal with Ms Hs complaint about the outcome 
of the Section 75 claim correctly, Im not persuaded that this would have made a difference if 
they had dealt with this as they should have. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered the points that Ms H has raised about the tour. She clearly didnt enjoy the 
tour and her overall experience. But for me to say that Santander should take action to put 
things right, Id need to be satisfied that there was a reasonable claim for either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation on the part of L. 
Ms H has said the coach was uncomfortable throughout the tour. Its very difficult though for 
her to show that this was because the quality of the coach was substandard, and Ive not 
been provided with enough evidence of this. I appreciate Ms H would have wanted to look at 
the scenery from the window and accept her comments that she wasnt able to. However, I 
think that is a loss of expectation of something Ms H would have preferred to have 
happened, rather than that being a breach of contract. 
Ms H has said that L called her before the tour to get her agreement to the coach being 
downgraded, but this particular coach wasnt then provided. Ive not though seen enough 
evidence to support this, in that I havent seen what type of coach was used and that this 
wasnt what was agreed. If Ms H can provide Santander with this evidence, then they may 
wish to re-consider this aspect of her case.  I say this noting Ls Things You Need To Know 
guide, which is available on their website, which sets out that customers are entitled to a 5% 
refund of their holiday cost if two particular types of coaches arent used for tours. 
Ive considered what Ms H has said about the coach driver/tour guide being replaced for part 
of the tour. She said he was arrogant and rude. That doesnt equate though to a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and, even if it was, is all but impossible to prove. And, while 
Ms H says he didnt speak much English, this isnt the same as saying he didnt speak 
English at all. Again, its very difficult for Ms H to show that this reasonably shows her 
position that L breached their contract to provide someone on the tour who would 
communicate in English.Ive seen the evidence Ms H has sent about her name being incorrect, which is for a ferry 
booking. I agree this shows her name incorrectly although I havent seen any other evidence 
that this happened on more than one occasion. If that did though happen more than once, I 
note that Ms H says she was still able to board the ferries although she needed to explain 
why her name was shown incorrectly. While this undoubtedly would have been an 
inconvenience to her, she was still able to board. It would be different in my view if she 
wasnt able to board as she would have missed parts of the tour. That didnt though happen. 
Ive also considered Ms Hs claim about the hotels being substandard. However, I have no 
supporting evidence to show this for example that Ms H complained to the hotels in question 
at the time, or to L, and/or took photographs showing this. And, while I note Ms H says one 
of the hotels was quite a way away from where they were intended to be, Ls terms do state 
that they reserved the right to substitute another hotel of a similar or higher standard, from a 
named hotel on the tour. I havent seen sufficient evidence that what was provided didnt fit 
that criterion and I dont find that Ms Hs written testimony satisfies that. 
Ms H says she had to wait several hours to get home because of delays to other coaches. 
However, that was outside of the control of L. So, I wouldnt find they had breached their 
contract in respect of the tour because of that. 
As our investigator said in her view, its for Ms H to provide enough evidence to support her 
claim for breach of contract and misrepresentation. I dont find that Ms Hs testimony fulfils 
that without supporting evidence. And Im not persuaded that the programme Ms H has 
referred to does that either. Ive watched the episode in question but theres nothing to show 
that the participant Ms H has mentioned was on the same tour as her. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that Ms H has been able to show that L breached their contract with 
her or that they misrepresented the tour. That, in my view, is primarily down to the lack of 
supporting evidence to Ms Hs testimony. So, it follows that I wont be upholding her 
complaint against Santander. If Ms H can provide further evidence, as Santander requested 
when she raised her claim, I would expect Santander to see if that makes a difference to her 
claim and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman