DRN-3933875
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made on a 
property owners insurance policy for the eviction of a tenant and loss of rent.
Mrs R says Aviva treated her unfairly. 
All references to Aviva include their claims handlers. 
What happened
Mrs R made a claim on her property owners insurance policy for cover to evict a tenant and 
for loss of rent owing to her. Aviva asked Mrs R to provide them with a reference for her 
tenants which needed to have been obtained before she entered into a tenancy agreement 
with them. After some correspondence between Aviva, Mrs R and Mrs Rs letting agent, it 
was discovered that the letting agent hadnt obtained a reference from the tenants because 
theyd paid a years rent in advance.
Aviva said it was a requirement of the policy that Mrs R obtain a reference for the tenants 
prior to the tenancy being put in place. As there was no reference, Aviva declined her claim 
for reimbursement of rent. They did however agree to consider the claim for eviction. By this 
point Mrs R had started litigating that claim herself. She asked Aviva to reimburse her for 
some of the Court fees shed incurred. Aviva refused as they said these fees hadnt been 
incurred with their agreement. But they did agree to pay some of her Court fees going 
forward and consider funding enforcement action for recovery of rents following an Order 
that Mrs R obtained against her tenants.
Aviva instructed a panel firm to consider the merits of the money award Mrs R wanted to 
enforce. That firm obtained a trace report which stated that the prospects of recovery were 
around 30%. They also said that because the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
recovery, Aviva werent prepared to cover it. As such they closed their file of papers.
Mrs R is unhappy because she feels that the service she received from Aviva was slow. In 
particular, she says she waited almost four months to find out whether her claim was 
covered, she was given conflicting information and lost time in submitting the possession 
claim. Shes also unhappy with Avivas position on her claim for rent arrears and Court fees. 
She wants Aviva to reimburse her for those sums as well as the cost of the damage to her 
property by her tenants and the cost of changing the locks.   
Our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
Aviva were entitled to decline her claims in the way that they did- although he recognised 
there were some delays on their part in this process. Mrs R doesnt agree so the matter has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They require a full vetting check to have been 
performed before Mrs R entered into a tenancy agreement with them. In particular, the terms 
contained in the policy Schedule say:
Residential Tenant Default
You must.
Prior to the grant of any tenancy, make all relevant and necessary searches to reveal 
County Court Judgements in the last five years against the proposed tenant by 
name
Prior to the grant of any tenancy obtain a minimum of three satisfactory references 
including one from the tenants employer (unless returned, a financial reference (e.g. 
a bank), and one other referee. If any doubts as to the integrity or the financial 
standing of the tenant are expressed in any reference or there is a lack of response 
to any enquiry, You should not proceed with letting.
Whilst the letting agent confirmed to Mrs R that The prospective tenants applications have 
been forwarded to our referencing company and returned as acceptable, this didnt bear 
out. Rather the letting agent eventually confirmed that no reference was taken because the 
tenants paid a years worth of rent in advance. I understand that Mrs R is pursuing a 
complaint against the letting agent separately in this regard. 
Whilst I sympathise with the position Mrs R finds herself in, I cant agree that Aviva need to 
pay her claim for rent arrears. They acted in line with the terms of their policy and didnt 
apply them unreasonably in the in the circumstances.  Indeed, had proper checks been 
carried out, including a search for County Court Judgements, this would have revealed that 
Mrs Rs tenants had County Court Judgments against them before becoming her tenant. 
Based on their terms, Aviva wouldnt have taken on that risk. They did however agree to 
both reimburse her for some of the Court fees she incurred and consider enforcement action 
against the tenants by instructing their panel firm.
I agree with the investigator that Aviva arent obliged to cover legal fees they didnt 
previously agree to funding. The policy sets out that they will not cover costs and expenses 
incurred prior to Our written acceptance of a claim. I appreciate that Mrs R feels that Aviva 
delayed dealing with the claim for rent arrears which ultimately led to her incurring further 
costs in progressing the possession proceedings without Avivas involvement. But I dont 
agree. Whilst I accept there were delays on Avivas part in considering the rent arrears 
claim, its also right that Mrs R wasnt able to provide the reference requested by them from 
the outset. It took her letting agent some time to provide an answer on this, after which the 
claim was declined. In this time Mrs R took the decision to pursue the claim for possession 
herself. I can see why she would have done this- she wanted to get possession of her 
property without delay- but she did so without Avivas prior consent or involvement. So, I 
cant agree that Aviva need to fund the costs of her pursuing this action until they agreed to 
fund the Court fee for the Possession Order which amounted to £130.
The other thing of note is that Mrs R is no worse off as a result of any delays by Aviva in 
dealing with her claim. She got on and issued proceedings against her tenants in which she 
was successful in obtaining a Possession Order. It could be argued that Aviva might have done this for her once theyd sorted out the rent arrears claim but she didnt wait for them to 
do this or obtain their permission before incurring costs, so I cant say Aviva are responsible 
for those costs. And although the tenants did leave the property, Mrs R is no better off on the 
money award as she hasnt been able to enforce it and there is no cover available under the 
policy for her to do so in any event. Thats because the claim doesnt have reasonable 
prospects of recovery. 
Mrs Rs policy, like virtually all other before the event insurance policies requires there to be 
reasonable prospects of success, which we would take to mean including reasonable 
prospects of recovery. We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A 
privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or 
that they wouldnt be able to enforce any award the obtained. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. In this case the panel firm obtained a trace report which set 
out why it was thought the prospects of recovery sat at 30%. And I havent seen anything 
that suggests the advice provided was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. So, 
Aviva were entitled to rely on that when turning down cover. Mrs R refers to Aviva failing to 
respond to evidence in response to this. I havent seen anything to this effect but if Mrs R 
does have any evidence which is likely to change the position on prospects of recovery- like 
an alternative trace report with more information about the tenants that might help support 
the merits of a claim for recovery, she should revert to Aviva directly, who I would then 
expect to reconsider their position.
I note that Mrs R refers in her complaint to being reimbursed by Aviva for the cost of the 
damage to her property by her tenants and the cost of changing the locks. It doesnt appear 
that her claim to Aviva contained this request. The policy she took out does have property 
damage cover, but that claim would be separate to the ones shes made to Aviva. Mrs R 
should review her policy and make a claim for those items in accordance with the claims 
process set out within it. 
Finally, I know Mrs R wants to be compensated by Aviva for their delays in handling the 
claim generally, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think shes any worse off. 
Ultimately, she wasnt entitled to the benefit of cover for rent arrears or enforcement and she 
didnt obtain Avivas consent before incurring any Court fees so I cant say Aviva are 
responsible for this. 
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman