DRN-3674639
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his pet insurance policy and that it delayed part of his 
payment. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his pet insurance policy in relation to hydrotherapy sessions that 
were required for his pets treatment. But when Petplan looked into the claim it noticed that 
there were two payments for sessions on the same day. So it looked to check this with the 
hydrotherapy therapist and it was confirmed that there was an error so it paid Mr C £40 (the 
cost of a single session) less.
When Mr C complained about this it verified that although there was a dual entry on the 
same date the treating therapist had simply made an error with the dates and the payment 
was due. So it paid Mr C the correct amount and offered him £50 by way of compensation 
for the delay and any inconvenience caused. But Mr C remained unhappy, so he complained 
to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him, but she thought Petplan had acted fairly. She 
didnt think it had acted unreasonably in questioning the invoice originally (as there were two 
treatments registered on the same day). And that it looked to pay Mr C what it owed him 
when it realised the payment was actually due, plus £50 by way of compensation. 
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but Ill explain why.
I know Mr C feels that Petplan deliberately tried not to pay him for one of the hydrotherapy 
sessions for his pet. But I think the evidence shows there was clearly an error in the invoice 
provided to support Mr Cs claim. And although Petplan contacted the wrong business about 
the invoice initially it did get to the bottom of the matter and realised that a further payment 
was due as part of the claim and paid Mr C an additional £40. 
I know Mr C is suspicious of this, but I feel this was a simple mistake caused initially by an 
incorrect invoice being provided. But Petplan then went on to pay Mr C £50 by way of 
compensation for any inconvenience caused which seems more than reasonable to me. I 
understand that Mr C declined the compensation but Petplan are still happy to pay this 
amount now.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan 
has acted fairly by offering to pay £50 compensation. So my decision is that it should pay Mr 
C £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman