DRN-2177879
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) opened a bank account for him and 
reported this to credit reference agencies (CRAs), even though he hadnt been fully verified.
What happened
Mr M made an application for a bank account in 2017 using a mobile application. Mr M says 
that he went as far as completing the application but stopped short of completing the 
verification process. 
Mr M later found out that an account had been opened and contacted Starling to complain 
that his credit file was showing an open account even though he didnt complete the process 
of verification. 
Starling explained their systems showed Mr M applied for an account in 2017. Starling said 
as soon as Mr M applied and provided his details the account was opened but the account 
wasnt fully functional as it wasnt fully verified. They explained the account opening process 
has two stages. The first stage, which Mr M completed, includes accepting the terms and 
conditions for opening the account and the allocation of a sort code and account number. 
Starling explained, at this stage, the account shows as open on a credit file. They said the 
second stage involves completing account verification checks to allow a customer to use all 
aspects of the account. Starling explained they are required to report information to CRAs 
and this includes applications for accounts regardless of whether the account has been 
successfully opened. Starling explained that Mr Ms account was reported to a CRA even 
though it was unverified and unused. Starling didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and felt that Starling hadnt acted unfairly. Mr M 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about a 
customers account to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to 
date. Ive also looked at Starlings website and note the Privacy Notice linked to the terms 
and conditions explains that they share information with CRAs. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Starling to share information with the CRAs. 
The next point I need to consider is whether the information shared was accurate. Starlings 
website sets out the steps a customer needs to follow to open an account. Theres a four 
stage process; stage one involves downloading the mobile application, stage two relates to 
the customer providing their telephone number so a verification code can be sent and stage 
three requires a customer to provide their personal information. Stage four requires 
verification in the form of a customer making a short video and also uploading a photo. 
The information I have seen shows that Mr M completed the first three stages. Whats 
important about this is that the information relating to stage three says this step will create an 
account. I feel this makes it clear that an account will be opened once stage three is 
completed. This is the point Mr M reached so I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to 
have told the CRAs that Mr M had an open account because that is whats happened. In 
addition to this, I have seen from information provided by Starling that an account number 
and sort code was assigned to Mr Ms account. Also, a screenshot of Starlings internal 
systems of an update status page shows that a new account was opened and also sets out 
the outstanding actions Mr M needs to complete to verify the account. I feel this is proof that 
an account was created.
I think its important to also assess this matter by considering the mobile application to see 
what information was provided to Mr M when he created the account. Starling have provided 
us with screenshots of the account opening journey that was in place at the time Mr M 
opened the account. This shows that, following the verification code stage, a consumer is 
presented with a section asking them for some personal details in order to get your 
account started. After entering and submitting personal details, the mobile application then 
moves to a section which requires a box to be ticked to confirm the terms and conditions and 
privacy policy have been read and understood. There is also a statement in this section 
which says that if the consumer accepts these terms then they will have limited access to 
Starlings services. I think the account opening journey up to this point does make it clear 
that an account will be opened once the box has been ticked and the consumer has clicked 
on submit. I havent been provided with any information which suggests that Mr M wasnt 
presented with these sections. On this basis, I feel Starling havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in opening the account for Mr M and reporting this to the CRAs.    
I understand Mr M is concerned about how an account can be opened without carrying out 
any verification. Mr M says that Starlings process could leave him, or other consumers, in a 
situation where accounts are opened in their name by someone else. I havent seen any 
evidence that Starlings processes have led to that happening here or that their processes 
could leave Mr M or others open to fraud. On that basis, I cant say that Starling have acted 
unfairly.  
Mr M told us that his wife applied for an account with another bank and, although an account 
number and sort code were issued, the bank never reported this on her credit file because 
she didnt complete the verification process. Banks have their own processes when it comes 
to opening accounts for customers, the process might differ between banks, but we cant tell 
them what process to follow. In online sales including mobile applications, where consumers 
dont typically speak with a representative from the business, there is a responsibility on the 
part of the business to ensure that key information is not only clear but is brought to a 
consumers attention. And, I think that is whats happened here as key information was 
brought to Mr Ms attention.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman