DRN-2194331
The complaint
Mrs E complained because Santander UK Plc blocked her account, and then closed it.
What happened
Mrs E had a Santander account which she used just for receipt of social security payments. 
The normal pattern on the account was that the benefits went in, then in the next few days 
Mrs E took all the money out, usually in cash. There wasnt any other spend on the account.
On 20 June 2019 the first of several much larger credits went into Mrs Es account. The first 
was for £8,500.15. Santander rang Mrs E to tell her that it was doing a review of her 
account, and there would be a temporary block on her account. It told Mrs E that if she 
wanted to take money out, shed need to go to a branch.
Mrs E went to a Santander branch the same day. She was told again that she could take out 
her benefit payments in the branch, and shed be contacted in due course about the review 
of her account. 
Mrs E rang Santander again later that day, but got the same answer. Mrs Es daughter rang 
a few days later, saying Mrs E had expected the restrictions to have been removed the 
previous Thursday, and had also been waiting for a call. She complained on her mothers 
behalf.
On 27 June, Santander took a decision that it was going to close Mrs Es account.  It wrote 
to Mrs E to tell her, saying that it used different sources of information to help protect 
customers from fraud, and a number of factors were taken into account when deciding the 
outcome of an investigation. Santander said that after a review, it was withdrawing all 
banking facilities from Mrs E with immediate effect. Her account would be blocked 
immediately and closed in 30 days time. 
Mrs E complained.
Santander didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. It said that after reviewing Mrs Es account, it 
had exercised its right to withdraw banking facilities. It suggested that Mrs E might wish to 
obtain her information from the fraud prevention organisation CIFAS. Santander also said 
that she could go to a branch and withdraw the benefits payments which had been paid into 
her account by Bank Giro Credit. It apologised if this hadnt been communicated correctly 
and sent Mrs E a cheque for £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She was unhappy that Santander had 
closed her account. She said shed contacted CIFAS as Santander had suggested. This had 
shown that an account had been opened in her name with another bank, which she said had 
been opened fraudulently.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. He couldnt see that Mrs E had received 
any poor service from Santander, and nor had she been told the restrictions would be 
removed. He also said that Santander had closed Mrs Es account in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied. Represented by her daughter, she said:
- £50 didnt cover all the stress and costs shed suffered because of Santander closing 
the account;
- The large credits that had been paid into her account had been backdated benefits 
and now she had nowhere safe to keep that money;
- She wanted to know why Santander had closed her account and wouldnt let her 
open another;
- she couldnt cash Santanders £50 cheque because she didnt have another bank 
account.
The investigator arranged for Santander to pay the £50 compensation by bank transfer to 
Mrs Es daughters bank account, instead of the cheque it had issued. But he didnt change 
his view of the outcome. Mrs E asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders closure of Mrs Es account
When customers open an account, they agree to the terms and conditions of the account. 
These set the rules for what can happen later. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for 
Mrs Es account. Section 17.2 says you or we may close your account at any time by giving 
the other notice without giving any reason.  This means Santander was entitled to close Mrs 
Es account  and it didnt have to tell her the reason. 
Santander also gave Mrs E the necessary 30 days notice of closing her account. So I find 
that Santander didnt break any of the rules when it closed Mrs Es account with the correct 
amount of notice, and without telling her why.
Compensation
Mrs E has also complained that £50 wasnt enough compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience which arose from Santanders decision to stop providing banking for Mrs E. 
Ive looked at compensation in two parts. 
First, I dont consider Santander acted wrongly when it decided to close Mrs Es account  
as Ive explained, it was entitled to do so. So there was no compensation paid, or due,  as 
compensation for the closure. I recognise that Mrs E has found it inconvenient that she 
doesnt have a bank account elsewhere, but each bank makes its own decisions. So its not 
Santanders fault if other banks arent willing to open an account for Mrs E.
Secondly, Ive gone on to look at the customer service Santander provided to Mrs E during 
the review of her account. Ive seen no evidence from the recorded calls between Mrs E and 
Santander, to indicate that she was ever promised that the restrictions would be removed by 
any particular date. Nor have I seen any evidence that she was promised a call back which 
didnt happen. And Ive seen nothing to indicate that she was given conflicting information 
about whether or not she could access the benefits which had been paid into her account 
through Bank Giro Credit. I recognise that  Santander told Mrs E that the £50 compensation was a gesture of goodwill. But having looked at all the circumstances, Ive seen nothing to 
show that Santander needed to pay Mrs E any compensation at all for service. I find that its 
£50 payment was generous in the circumstances, and I dont require it to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman