DRN-4107540
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with and settled a claim his 
son Mr R as a named driver made. Mr R made a claim against Mr As car insurance policy 
when he was involved in an incident with another car. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr R was involved in an incident with another car and he reported it to Mr As 
insurer, AXA. Mr R said he didnt believe he was at fault for the incident and provided 
contact details for a witness. 
AXA settled the claim as a fault claim in May 2022. It said it had received a witness 
statement from the third party insurer (TPI) which said Mr R was at fault for the incident. 
Mr A as the policyholder complained to AXA in June 2022 about its decision. He said he only 
discovered it when looking to buy a policy for another car. Mr A thought the claim had been 
settled in Mr Rs favour as he and Mr R hadnt heard from AXA in almost a year. He said 
AXA hadnt told them about the decision.
AXA upheld Mr As complaint in part. It said it had received the witness statement from the 
TPI in August 2021 but hadnt taken any action until May 2022. It said it had called Mr Rs 
witness twice in May and June 2021 and left a voice mail message. But he hadnt replied to 
AXA. It agreed to contact him again when Mr A complained. This time AXA was able to 
speak to the witness. But the witness said he couldnt remember the incident and asked not 
to be contacted again. 
So AXA said it had reached the correct decision about liability for the incident - in light of the 
witness statement provided by the TPI. 
AXA had sent Mr A a letter in May 2022 advising of its decision. But it accepted that it had 
caused undue delays and should have handled the claim better. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused, it paid Mr A compensation of £250. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at the complaint. He said the compensation 
award doesnt reflect the difference in premium price they are paying for insurance as a 
result of the fault claim.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think AXA had 
properly investigated the claim before reaching its decision. He recommended AXA update 
the claim on external databases to allow the No Claims Bonus (NCB). He recommended 
AXA calculate and refund any additional policy costs and increase the compensation paid 
from £250 to £550, so an additional £300. 
Mr A accepted the Investigators view. AXA didnt agree. In summary it accepts it handled 
the claim poorly, but believes the outcome would have been the same even if it hadnt. It 
believes the witness statement provided by the TPI was compelling - and it had made 
attempts to contact Mr Rs witness - and asked Mr R to complete an Accident Report Form 
(ARF) twice - but hadnt received a reply. 
In light of the poor handling of the claim, AXA said it would increase the compensation award 
to a total of £400. But it said at best the claim would have most likely settled at shared 
liability on a 50% 50% basis. This means that if it had settled on this basis, the impact on the 
NCB and premium would have been the same.  
So as AXA didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
AXA, like most insurers, has a very common term which allows it to settle a claim in Mr R (or 
Mr A)s name. This means AXA might make a decision Mr A and Mr R dont agree with, but 
the policy allows it. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer can 
show it has treated a customer fairly when applying it. 
AXA accepts that it failed to act on a witness statement it received from the TPI in August 
2021 until May 2022. Having reviewed it over eight months later, AXA reached the decision 
to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
An insurer needs to show it has properly investigated a claim. As the Investigator pointed 
out, AXA didnt receive any evidence of the damage to the third partys car. This is a key part 
of evidence to help decide fault. The circumstances of the incident are that the cars collided 
on a roundabout. Mr R says he was correctly exiting the roundabout when the third party 
vehicle (TPV) failed to stop and collided into his car. The TPI witness says that the TPV had 
slowed down approaching the roundabout, and that Mr R was driving at speed, didnt 
indicate and attempted to undertake when the collision happened. 
The TPI witness says he was a pedestrian who had seen the incident occur. Mr R says no 
pedestrian approached either party at the scene - and that the other driver left the scene 
long before he did. Mr R says his witness was another driver. So he doesnt agree that the 
TP witness statement is credible. 
Its not for me to say whether this is the case. But I think AXA should have let Mr R and Mr A 
know about the TP witness statement before reaching its decision as it could have 
investigated further. And AXA hasnt shown that it obtained any evidence of vehicle damage 
to the TPV which I think was important evidence when deciding fault. It reached its decision 
without it. Although AXA says it called Mr Rs witness twice and asked Mr R for an ARF, this 
was in May and June 2021, with no follow up until almost a year later - in response to the 
complaint - and after it had reached its decision.
So I dont think AXA reached its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim in a reasonable 
way - and I dont think it treated Mr R fairly. I therefore agree with the Investigators 
recommendations to put things right which Ive set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
update the claim on any internal and external databases to allow the No Claims 
Bonus. 
If an increase in premium has been applied at renewal with AXA due to the way the 
claim has previously been recorded, to recalculate the premium and provide an appropriate refund.
Provide Mr R and Mr A with a letter confirming it settled the claim dated 13 May 2021 
as a fault claim in error and updated the NCB accordingly so that they can show this 
to subsequent insurers. 
Pay a further £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
bringing the total award to £550. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr A and Mr R accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman