DRN-3826051
The complaint
Mr C complains that Care by Volvo Car UK Limited (CBVC) didnt provide the service it 
should have regarding the delivery of a new car under his hire car agreement.
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire agreement for a new car in July 2021. The car was due to be 
delivered in March 2022 with the new registration plate. Mr C expected his car to be 
delivered on 1 March 2022, but this didnt happen until 3 March. He spent time on calls 
before the delivery date trying to confirm when the car would arrive and says he was 
provided with conflicting information.
CBVC said that its Customer Relations Team acted with good intentions to inform Mr C that 
there may be a potential change in the planned collection date of his vehicle. It apologised 
for the surprise caused but said the collection of the car hadnt been affected.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that there wasnt an agreed delivery 
date for the car.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the agreement he signed 
included reference to an exact delivery date being agreed and that he had the delivery date 
of 1 March confirmed both verbally and in writing. He said had been caused inconvenience 
and costs by the delay in the delivery date and service issues he experienced, and he 
should be compensated.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr C entered into a hire agreement with CBVC in July 2021. The lease term was 
three years starting on the date the car was delivered. When the order was confirmed 
in July 2021, Mr C said he wanted to take delivery on 1 March 2022 with the new 
registration plate.
There were several references to the 1 March 2022 date throughout the 
correspondence with CBVC, but I hadnt seen evidence of the delivery date being 
confirmed as part of the contract. And so while I understood that Mr C had made his 
desire for the delivery on 1 March known and this appeared to have been agreed, it 
wasnt clear that the date formed part of the contract or that this was guaranteed 
rather than an estimated, target or best efforts date.
Mr C contacted CBVC in November 2021 for an update and there was some 
confusion regarding the build date, but in January 2022 he was told that delivery was 
still expected on 1 March 2022. There were then questions about the plate and 
registering this, but these were dealt with. In February 2022, CBVC said the car was 
in transit and it was doing all it could to get it by 1 March, but this didnt happen. Mr C 
took delivery on the 3 March. 
While I didnt have evidence in the contract of the delivery date, I accepted that the 
1 March was the expected date and Mr C was told more than once this was on track. 
Therefore, I accepted he was disappointed when the date wasnt achieved, and I 
thought it reasonable that CBVC should act to mitigate costs associated with the 
delay. CBVC offered to pay for alternative transport until the car was delivered which 
I found reasonable.
I separately considered the service issues Mr C raised, specifically regarding the 
information he received and additional documentation. Mr C made several calls while 
trying to sort the delivery of his car and while CBVC did try to assist him, there was a 
lack of clarity about the timing, and, on occasions, conflicting and unclear 
information. Given this I thought it reasonable that Mr C was paid compensation. 
I took into account the inconvenience Mr C was caused both by the delivery delay but 
also by the uncertainty arising from the information he received in the lead up to 
delivery. Against this I considered the support CBVC did provide and its offer to cover 
the transport costs for the period between 1 and 3 March. Based on this I thought 
compensation of £100 was reasonable.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is about the issues Mr C experienced in regard to the delivery of the car subject 
to his hire agreement. As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I am now able to issue my final decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision I do not find there is enough evidence to say that the 
delivery date was confirmed as part of the contract, however I do find that Mr C reasonably 
believed the car would be delivered on 1 March and this didnt happen. I dont think the 
service he was provided with in the lead up to the delivery and regarding the delivery day 
was as it should have been and because of this I find it fair that he is paid £100 
compensation.
Putting things right
My provisional decision is that Care by Volvo Car UK Limited should pay Mr C £100 
compensation for the service issues experienced with the delivery of the car subject to his 
hire agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Care by Volvo Car UK Limited should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman