DRN-4314540
Complaint
Miss S has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss S with a loan for £2,000.00 in April 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 44.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,901.60, including interest, fees and charges of £901.60, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of around £120. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss S complaint and he thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Miss S with her loan. So he thought that Miss S complaint should 
be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Miss S such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Miss S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that Miss S was already significantly 
indebted and shed also defaulted on at least one account not too long before this 
application.
So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more further information from Miss S 
in order to have been able to make an informed decision on whether to lend to her. 
Furthermore, the information Ive seen leaves me satisfied that Miss S was going to struggle 
to make the necessary payments here.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss S has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss S indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss S version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss S existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss S circumstances would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 118 118 
Money provided Miss S with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss S has ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss S lost out because of 
what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss S
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Miss S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss S loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss S made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt 
purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 
originally lent. If Miss S has already paid more than £2,000.00 on this loan then 118 
118 Money should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should 
be refunded to Miss S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain, after all 
adjustments have been made to the account and its the case that Miss S is experiencing 
financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman