DRN-3603403
The complaint
Mr B, with assistance from his wife, Mrs B, has complained about China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd. It provided an insurance policy as well as a warranty for a mobility scooter they 
purchased.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B brought a mobility scooter in February 2021. The scooter came with a 
one-year manufacturer warranty. And they also purchased an extended three-year warranty, 
as well as an insurance policy. Unfortunately, the scooter never worked correctly, and 
despite Mr and Mrs B trying to resolve matters with the seller, in early 2022 they still didnt 
feel able to use the scooter. They felt the seller, if not China Taiping given the insurance and 
warranty it was providing, should replace the scooter. Given China Taipings involvement 
they complained to us.
China Taiping told this service it didnt think it was responsible for any problem with the 
scooter. It noted the problem had existed since purchase and there was a manufacturers 
warranty. It felt the products it had provided simply wouldnt respond in this scenario.
Our Investigator reviewed the details of the insurance and warranty provided by China 
Taiping in light of Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the scooter. She thought that, in the 
circumstances, China Taipings refusal to do anything was fair and reasonable. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mrs B said shed like the matter to be investigated further. She said it couldnt be right that 
they still had an item that wasnt fit for purpose which nobody was doing anything about.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is a frustrating situation for Mr and Mrs B, which is all the more 
upsetting due to Mr Bs health and the need for them to purchase the scooter in the first 
place. And I can understand why, with the seller of the scooter not assisting them, theyve 
hoped that they could find resolution in the insurance products they purchased for and with 
the scooter. With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr and Mrs B, Im 
satisfied that there is no recourse for them in this situation, with China Taiping, in respect of 
these products. They simply arent designed for, or offer cover in respect of, these 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B brought a scooter from a local seller. That seller is not a financial services 
provider. Which means this service cant look at it in respect of the mobility scooter that was 
sold to Mr and Mrs B. But I understand that came with a one-year manufacturers warranty. 
And that type of warranty is not usually an insurance product. Rather it is a commitment from 
the manufacturer to be responsible, for certain issues, that might occur, within a certain 
period, after its products are purchased. In this case in the first year.
The warranty provided by China Taiping is an insurance product. China Taipings warranty 
was sold to Mr and Mrs B in February 2021, when the scooter was purchased. But it is an 
extended warranty. Which means the cover provided by it begins when the manufacturers 
warranty ends. And the policy schedule for the warranty reflects this in the dates given for 
the period of cover  February 2022 to February 2025. And the wording that further 
explains the cover offered by the warranty states that cover is excluded for any issues that 
occur during the manufacturers warranty period. So the protection afforded by China 
Taipings warranty cant assist Mr and Mrs B here. 
The insurance policy China Taiping provides isnt intended to offer cover for this type of 
situation either. The insurance policy offers cover where accidental damage occurs to the 
scooter during the period of cover. That period did begin on the day the scooter was 
purchased. But, as I understand it, no accidental damage occurred to the scooter. Rather it 
has been determined that the scooters battery was faulty. And it is on the basis of the 
scooter/its battery being defective, and therefore, inherently not fit for purpose, that 
Mr and Mrs B have been seeking a refund from the seller. So the protection afforded by 
China Taipings insurance policy cant assist Mr and Mrs B either.
As I said, I can quite see why Mr and Mrs B are frustrated and upset that their problem 
hasnt been resolved by the seller. But, as explained above, the insurance products they 
purchased dont offer them an alternative route of recourse for that dispute. Rather the 
products in question provide Mr and Mrs B with certain cover at certain times and Im 
satisfied that, in this case, China Taipings view, that it has no liability to them under either 
product, for the defective scooter, is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against China Taiping Insurance (UK) 
Co Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman