DRN-2535556
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain Prolease Limited included them on a secured loan as borrowers 
when they had no knowledge of this and didnt agree to it, that Prolease failed to follow its 
own due diligence procedures before issuing the loan, and that Prolease failed to provide 
them with information about the loan after it was granted.
Mr H1 and Mr H2, as well as Prolease, have both used legal representatives during the 
course of this complaint  but for simplicity Ill just refer to them in this decision.
What happened
Background
In 2013 Mr H1 and another party Ill call Mr T bought a marine vessel with the intention of 
renovating it and selling it on for a profit. The intention was that Mr H1 and Mr H2 would 
undertake the renovation work, with any profits due to be split three ways between the 
different parties. 
Sometime in 2018, Mr T explored the possibility of taking out a loan for £50,000. In around 
April 2018, he approached Mr H1 about securing this loan against the vessel. Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 say they understood this to be for personal reasons. 
There isnt clear evidence about what the loan money was used for, although ongoing court 
proceedings suggest that around £8,000 may have been used in respect of the vessel in 
2018. Because the loan was secured against the vessel (which was a commercial 
enterprise), and because Mr Ts correspondence with Prolease suggests that he was taking 
it out in circumstances where it would be repaid upon the sale of the vessel and another 
vessel he owned (which Mr H1 and Mr H2 have told us is used for commercial purposes), 
Ive proceeded on the basis that the loan was taken out for business purposes, even if they 
were for Mr Ts own business purposes and not those of Mr H1 and Mr H2 as well. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said that their understanding was that Mr Ts share of the vessel 
would be used as security for the loan, that Mr T would repay the loan in full himself, and 
that neither Mr H1 nor Mr H2 agreed to be a main borrower. However they accept that they 
were happy for Mr T to use his share of the vessel as security for the loan he was taking out.
Mr T emailed Prolease on 4 April 2018, saying [H1] knows I am taking a loan against [the 
vessel] and will happily sign whatever you may need him to. Prolease replied the next day 
setting out the terms, including Borrower(s)  all owners of the boat, please provide full 
name, dob and address. On 20 April 2018, Mr T emailed Prolease saying Both [H1] and 
[H2] are OK signing whatever you need vis-a-vis granting security. I doubt that they would 
agree to having a primary obligation as a borrower or guarantor but from our conversations, I 
believe that it is just their agreement to grant security against [the vessel] and the mooring 
which they have agreed to.
On 25 April 2018 Mr T emailed Mr H1 and Mr H2 saying This is to confirm that the £50,000 
loan I am taking out and which is secured against [the vessel] and the mooring is solely my 
responsibility and that all expenses and interest charged for the loan will be paid by me and 
that the loan will be repaid in full out of my portion of the sale proceeds.
The loan agreement
The signature page on the loan application form shows Mr Ts signature, Mr H1s signature, 
and Mr H2s signature, all dated 27 April 2018, and all apparently witnessed by a third party, 
Mr U. The signature page says:
Borrowers signature
This is a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Signature(s) of Borrower(s)
It also says: 
If two or more of you have signed this agreement as the Borrower, you are liable 
jointly and severally, that is together as well as separately under this agreement. This 
means that either of you can be held fully liable for the obligations of the Borrower 
under this agreement.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 say that Prolease did not send them a copy of the loan agreement and  
despite what the signature page may say - they never agreed to be liable as main borrower 
under the agreement, or for the vessel as a whole to provide the security. There is an issue 
over whether they signed the signature page, which I discuss further below in the section 
headed What Ive decided - and why.
It appears that Mr T kept up the repayments on the vessel for the first year but subsequently 
was unable to do so. Prolease contacted Mr H1 and Mr H2 on 16 April 2019 to say Mr T 
hadnt paid the loan and asked them to make repayments. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 says that it wasnt until this point that they found out theyd been added on 
to the loan as borrowers, and with the loan secured against the vessel. So, Mr H1 and Mr H2 
complained to Prolease  explaining the arrangement. They said theyd been shown a copy 
of the loan agreement, which has been signed by them on the final page, but they dont 
believe the signatures were obtained legitimately. They also said they didnt believe their 
signatures had been witnessed correctly and didnt think Prolease had followed their own 
lending procedures when granting the loan.
Prolease said the loan had been taken out by all three parties  and had a signed loan 
agreement which included Mr H1 and Mr H2s signatures, as well as Mr Ts.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 are currently in a legal dispute with Mr T about whether the vessel should 
be sold.Complaint to the Ombudsman service
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained to the Ombudsman service. An investigator summarised the 
complaint as follows: 
You are also unhappy with how Promarine Finance [Prolease Limited] arranged the 
loan and say you dont think they complied with their due diligence obligations. This 
includes the fact that you say they didnt carry out checks on you before agreeing to 
lend. You also say they failed to provide you with a copy of the signed agreement or 
other documentation after the loan was taken out.
To resolve your complaint you were initially seeking to have your names removed 
from the loan so you werent liable for it. Promarine Finance advised they wouldnt 
remove your names  but they agreed not to pursue you for the debt. [Mr T] 
subsequently repaid the loan, so you have no further liability for it. But you remain 
unhappy with the circumstances in which the loan was drawn down and are seeking 
compensation for the impact of what happened.
During the time this complaint has been with our service, Prolease said the loan itself has 
been repaid so Mr H1 and Mr H2 no longer have any obligations for it. In addition, Mr H2 
confirmed he did sign a document, but he only saw one page of the agreement. 
After it was established we could look into things one of our investigators did so. He said that 
Mr H1 and Mr H2s signatures on the loan agreement signature page showed they were joint 
borrowers with Mr T. So, he didnt think Prolease had done anything wrong in accepting the 
loan. He also noted Prolease decided to lend based on the information from Mr T, so didnt 
need anything further from Mr H1 or Mr H2. He did think Prolease should have done more 
when the loan was taken out  as it seems Mr H1 and Mr H2 werent given a copy of the 
agreement  but he didnt think theyd lost out because the agreement they signed gave 
enough information that they ought to have known that they were liable as borrowers under 
the agreement. And he said after Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint Prolease ultimately agreed 
not to ask them for repayments  which he felt was fair as this effectively returned Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 to the original position, Prolease holding security over the vessel, with no requirement 
for payments to be made by Mr H1 and Mr H2.
Prolease replied and said their usual process was to post a copy of the loan agreement to all 
parties but they couldnt be sure theyd done this. They provided some evidence of returned 
post that had been sent to Mr H1 and Mr H2 in June 2019 and clarified the original loan 
agreements wouldnt have been sent by recorded delivery.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 also replied and didnt agree with the outcome. Theyve sent us detailed 
comments on the investigators view and the case more generally, which Ive summarised in 
my own words:
They didnt object to Mr T getting the loan secured against the vessel  but it was on 
the understanding it was on Mr Ts share of it, so there was no security against their 
own portions of it and so they wouldnt be liable in respect of the loan.
Theyve never seen or signed anything to do with the terms of the loan, or the loan 
agreement itself.
Prolease say someone witnessed their signatures but say this isnt true because they 
can prove where they were when the witness signed the agreement.
Proleases website lists all the checks that are expected when a loan is being taken 
out, and Prolease failed to follow these procedures when granting the loan.  Prolease never contacted them about the loan itself, either before it was granted or 
afterwards.
They say their identity was presented to Prolease by Mr T, but as it was never 
independently confirmed with them, Prolease shouldnt have accepted this 
information.
And they said they had lost out and listed legal costs as a result of this complaint, 
personal costs to Mr H2 for life altering decisions hes had to make as a result of this 
situation  all of which could have been avoided if Prolease had done things properly.
Because of these issues, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, and anyone acting for them, in reaching my decision. If Ive not 
reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its 
because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or 
provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the 
complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr H1 and Mr H2 say they didnt agree to be borrowers for 
the loan, and as a result of them being signed up to it incorrectly by Prolease theyve 
incurred significant trouble and costs. In order to answer this complaint, I think I need to split 
it out to two separate sections:
Did Prolease act fairly when granting the loan
Did Prolease act fairly after the loan funds had been paid out
I think its important to make clear that I cant consider whether Prolease acted fairly after 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained. Thats because I think the arguments theyve raised about 
this arent about the circumstances in which the loan was granted, or circumstances related 
to it. Rather, they are a complaint that Prolease hasnt properly remedied the problems that 
arose because of the way it granted the loan. In other words, this is a complaint that 
Prolease didnt uphold their complaint and provide a suitable remedy. The rules that govern 
my powers say that our service can only consider complaints about the provision of a 
financial service. In a case called Mazarona the High Court said that a complaint about how 
a complaint was handled/concluded isnt a complaint about the provision of a financial 
service. So I can only look at what Prolease did in granting the loan and after the funds had 
been paid out. 
Its helpful to set out at this stage I can only consider whether I think Prolease (or parties 
acting on their behalf) have acted fairly. I cant consider or make any comment on any other 
parties who have been involved in the circumstances that led to this complaint.Did Prolease act fairly when granting the loan
Prolease were presented with a loan agreement that included Mr H1 and Mr H2s signatures 
on it. Ive said above that the agreement said on the signature page that those signing it 
would be joint and severally liable, and that they shouldnt sign if they didnt want to be 
bound by the agreement.  
I think this is sufficiently clear for Mr H1 and Mr H2 to be aware they were signing to agree to 
be borrowers on the loan itself. Although I note that Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said that they 
didnt sign the loan agreement, I understand them to mean they didnt see the agreement 
as a whole at the time. However, theyve said in correspondence with us that they signed a 
one-page document giving consent for [Mr T] to obtain a loan secured on his portion of [the 
vessel] and the mooring. Mr H2 also explained to us in a phone call that he signed a 
document on the day he returned from Australia and that he and Mr H1 may have been 
nave about the arrangements, but that they didnt agree to being borrowers. 
In their initial complaint to Prolease, Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said they maintain that, whilst 
the signatures appear genuine, they do not believe they were obtained legitimately. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 didnt directly dispute the authenticity of the signatures in their initial 
complaint and do accept they signed a one-page document. Ive not been provided with any 
other document, which theyve signed, which could be this one-page document. So, taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied the document they signed was the loan agreement 
signature page. 
I note that correspondence between Mr T and Prolease from April 2018 says that Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 were unlikely to agree to being main borrowers of the agreement. Even so, and even 
if they didnt see the rest of the agreement, there was enough information on the signature 
page that  as far as the law is concerned - they must be taken to have known that they 
were signing an agreement where they would be liable as borrowers. They were therefore 
legally bound by the loan agreement. 
After this it seems that Mr U signed the loan agreement and said that he had witnessed Mr T 
and Mr H1 and Mr H2 as having signed the agreement. Mr H1 and Mr H2 say theyd never 
spoken to Mr U about the agreement, so he definitely couldnt have seen the agreement 
being signed.
But, remembering my focus is whether Prolease have acted correctly I need to consider 
what was given to them. They were presented, by Mr T it seems as Mr H1 and Mr H2 never 
spoke to Prolease at this time, with a signed and witnessed loan agreement. In addition, they 
were provided with certified photocopies of Mr H1 and Mr H2s passports. 
So, I dont think at face value Prolease were wrong to accept this  they were presented with 
certified identification of the joint borrowers, and a witnessed loan agreement signed by all 
borrowers. I think Prolease were entitled to conclude that Mr H1 and Mr H2 were happy for 
the loan to be granted on the terms set out. 
And I think that any issues about whether the loan agreement was witnessed in the way it 
said on its face arent relevant to whether or not Prolease was entitled to treat Mr H1 and 
Mr H2s signatures as sufficient evidence that they were content for the vessel to be security 
for the loan. If Mr H1 and Mr H2 consider that the issues to do with the witness statement 
mean that the loan agreement should be treated as void, that is something theyd need to 
pursue in the courts  its not something the ombudsman service can deal with because its 
really about an issue with parties other than Prolease.Mr H1 and Mr H2 have also raised concerns about the checks completed by Prolease. I can 
understand these concerns, as both parties agree that no checks were carried out by 
Prolease on Mr H1 or Mr H2. But, Prolease were prepared to lend based on the information 
provided by Mr T only. As I understand it  Mr T was adamant hed explained the loan 
agreement to both Mr H1 and Mr H2  and even though Mr H2 was abroad arrangements 
were made for him to sign the documents. 
I dont think this was appropriate. Prolease say they would carry out the checks on 
borrowers and have given an explanation here that effectively means theyve relied on one 
party.
But, I have to consider what most likely would have happened, had Prolease done things 
correctly.
Ive not been made aware of anything to suggest Mr H1 and Mr H2s credit files would likely 
have meant Prolease wouldnt have lent. And, in any event, even if Mr H1 and Mr H2s credit 
files were in a very poor state  Prolease have already shown they were prepared to lend 
based solely on the information provided to them by Mr T. This means I dont think any credit 
checks would have changed whether the loan was taken out or not.
So, I need to consider what I think would have happened, had Prolease contacted Mr H1 
and Mr H2. Ive already concluded that, legally, Mr H1 and Mr H2 knew they were co-
borrowers on the loan. By their own admission theyve not demonstrated sufficient attention 
to detail to say they understood the kind of agreement they were signing for. From the 
information Ive seen, it seems Mr H1 and Mr H2 were relying on the information provided to 
them by Mr T. With that in mind, I think its likely had Mr H1 and Mr H2 been contacted by 
Prolease, to talk about talking out the loan, theyd have still said it was fine to do so  
because they were of the understanding theyd only be providing security  even though 
theyd already signed to be co-borrowers. So, I dont think on a fair and reasonable basis I 
can say if Prolease had contacted them, that anything would have changed.
Separately, Ive noted Mr H1 and Mr H2 have recently raised concerns that credit checks 
were carried out on Mr T and his wife as part of the loan process. But, I dont think that 
changes anything regarding whether the loan was properly granted with Mr H1 and Mr H2 as 
co-borrowers for the reasons Ive mentioned above.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 are also concerned Prolease didnt tell them about these checks. I cant 
get involved in whether Prolease should or shouldnt have disclosed this information to 
Mr H1 and Mr H2. They may wish to speak to the Information Commissioners Office to 
understand what Proleases obligations are, and whether theyve been met.
So, overall, Im satisfied that in legal terms Mr H1 and Mr H2 agreed to be co-borrowers on 
the loan, and Prolease acted fairly when granting it.
Did Prolease act fairly after the loan funds had been paid out
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said they didnt receive any copies of the loan agreement paperwork 
afterwards. Prolease have said their usual process is to send this out by post to all 
borrowers  so I do think Mr H1 and Mr H2 should have received this.
Because of the passage of time its impossible to know whether Prolease did or didnt send 
out the original loan agreement paperwork. But, given Ive found that as a matter of law 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 did agree to be borrowers for the loan I dont think this has caused them 
any detriment. If Prolease had sent them the loan agreement paperwork after the loan was 
issued, Im not satisfied that Id have a proper basis to say that they shouldnt be bound by 
the loan agreement.And, because of this, I also dont think Prolease acted unfairly in asking them to repay the 
loan in April 2019. As far as Prolease were concerned at this point Mr H1 and Mr H2 had 
agreed to be borrowers on the loan itself  and be bound by the terms and conditions.
Other issues
I note Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said theyve never been provided any financial evidence to 
show the loan has been repaid by Prolease. But I also cant see that when they were told in 
January 2020 they ever asked for any further information to confirm the loan had been 
settled. If Mr H1 and Mr H2 require further confirmation of this, they can ask Prolease to 
provide it.
Ive also noted Mr H1 and Mr H2 are concerned about Prolease saying the vessel isnt 
registered  when actually it is. I cant see that this would affect whether the loan was taken 
out with them as co-borrowers. So, although Ive noted their point, I dont think it affects the 
outcome Ive come to.
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained above I think Prolease have acted fairly in executing the loan 
and in all their contact afterwards. I note that Mr H1 and Mr H2 have made reference to the 
financial impact this issue has had on them. While I sympathise with what appears to be a 
difficult situation, Im not satisfied that Prolease has done anything that would make it fair 
and reasonable for me to say they should compensate Mr H1 and Mr H2. I understand that 
they are involved in separate legal proceedings with Mr T, and I think those proceedings 
may be a more suitable place to deal with the underlying issues about who had responsibility 
for the loan. I therefore wont be asking Prolease to pay any of the costs Mr H1 and Mr H2 
have listed.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman