DRN-2431390
The complaint
Mr O has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions he didnt make.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr O got a text from TSB asking whether hed made a transaction or not. He 
replied he hadnt. He then noticed a number of other transactions pending on his account. 
There were two 10p transactions and six high-value transactions all valued around £1,000.
Mr O complained to TSB. They advised him to contact the police. He contacted Action Fraud 
but it then became clear nothing more was going to come of this. Mr O contacted TSB again 
to ask them to refund the transactions. They wouldnt do this. They felt their evidence 
showed the IP address for the disputed transactions matched an IP address theyd noted for 
Mr O previously.
Mr O brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
TSB wasnt able to provide the evidence theyd used to support their decision to reject 
Mr Os claim. Our investigator felt there was no evidence to show Mr O had made these 
transactions or acted in a grossly negligent manner. He asked TSB to refund £5,973.91 to 
Mr O along with 8% simple interest. Despite waiting for a response from TSB for more than 
four months, we received nothing to confirm whether they accepted this outcome.
Mr Os complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain further.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr O have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 15 October 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. I can reassure Mr O and TSB Ive considered the file thoroughly.
The issues I have considered include:
Mr O was notified about the potential fraud by TSB themselves. Within 15 minutes he 
rejected the transaction he was being asked to authorise. Theres no evidence any 
alarm bells were rung by six practically identical transactions happening just before 
the rejected transaction. I think its most likely these were loadings of foreign 
currency to prepaid cards.
I see there were also two very low-value transactions (10p) attempted. Weve seen 
these types of transactions before when a fraudster is making use of someone elses 
card details.
As soon as Mr O noted the disputed transactions, he raised these with TSB. I find it 
odd that TSB referred him to the police rather than dealing with his complaint. Back 
in 2018 thered have been more chance that theyd have been able to identify what 
had happened. TSB no longer has any card data now which could show, for 
example, whether thered been further attempts to use Mr Os debit card details after 
Mr O confirmed he wasnt using his card.
TSB hasnt been able to provide evidence to support their rejection of Mr Os 
complaint. There is nothing to show, as theyve argued, that the transactions came 
from an IP address Mr Os card had been used at previously. 
All this fraud seems to have entailed is someone being able to get hold of Mr Os 
card details (rather than the card itself).
As our investigator confirmed, theres nothing from Mr Os card use to show hed 
made similar transactions to the ones he disputed. 
I havent seen enough evidence to show Mr O authorised these transactions himself which I 
believe is TSBs position. Therefore on balance I dont think Mr O made or allowed these 
transactions to be made so I will be asking TSB to put things right.
Putting things right
Redress in cases likes this is relatively straightforward. TSB will need to refund Mr O for the 
six transactions he was debited without authority on 4 July 2018. These transactions totalled 
£5,973.91.
In line with our general approach and as Mr O has been without almost £6,000 of his own 
money for a considerable time, TSB will need to add 8% simple interest to the total.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct TSB Bank plc to:
Refund Mr O for the disputed transactions totalling £5,973.91; andAdd 8% simple interest a year from 4 July 2018 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman