DRN-4235818
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Gresham Insurance Company Limited didnt settle a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The facts arent in dispute. Mr T has a policy excess of £1000. Mr Ts toilet cistern pipe came 
loose causing water to escape downstairs via the back of the wall, flooding the kitchen and 
appliances. Gresham sent out its contractor who reported that the cost of repair was less 
that Mr Ts excess. Mr T was unhappy with this as he didnt feel Gresham had taken into 
account the fact that his oven and microwave had been damaged. He felt that the whole 
kitchen needing replacing.
Following enquiries from our investigator, Gresham has said that they would consider a 
report from a qualified electrician regarding electrical damage to Mr Ts appliances. 
As agreement hasnt been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ts policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think 
Gresham treated him fairly. Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the detailed scheduled of works Ive seen that the costs to repair insured 
damage will be less than the policy excess. The schedule includes decorating and for 
electrical reports and testing.  I appreciate that Mr T feels that the whole kitchen needs 
replacing but the contractor evidence Ive seen doesnt support that. It seems the carcass of 
the tall unit was damaged, along with a section of ceiling. The cost of the repair works is less 
than £1000, which is the policy buildings excess. In other words that amount is payable by 
Mr T before Greshams liability commences. In these circumstances I dont find that 
Gresham has treated Mr T unfairly in declining his claim.
I understand Mr T feels that there will be a mismatch of units in his kitchen is the units he 
has are no longer sold. Mr T does have matching items cover under his policy. However, the 
contractors evidence is that the doors are undamaged, therefore dont need replacing. 
Gresham is prepared to consider a report from an electrician in order to determine if the 
oven and microwave were damaged by water. I think this is fair. Mr T should send the report 
directly to Gresham for its consideration. If its clear that the items were damaged by the 
escape of water Gresham should reassess the claim and also pay the cost of the report.
I do understand Mr Ts disappointment and frustration. Hes paying for insurance and when 
an insured event happened, he didnt feel that Gresham responded as it should and the 
matter is still not resolved for him. I note that its taken a toll on his wellbeing. But I cant say 
that Gresham have treated Mr T unfairly or contrary to his policy terms in relying on the 
schedule of works, given there is no independent evidence to challenge it.
For completeness I would add that Mr T also complained initially about his toilet cistern pipe 
 which was the cause of the water escape. Gresham explained that the cause of the leak 
was a maintenance issue and not covered by his policy. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this wasnt a maintenance issue. I cant therefore conclude that Gresham 
turned down Mr Ts claim unreasonably or treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman