DRN-3878222
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the way Allianz Insurance plc has dealt with an escape of water 
claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2020 Ms C reported a leak in her home to her insurer, Allianz. Ms C raised a complaint 
about the handling of the claim to Allianz which it responded to in September 2021. 
Ms C didnt bring this complaint to this service - and so it doesnt form part of my decision. 
In February 2022 Ms C raised a further complaint with Allianz about ongoing delays and 
poor service since September 2021. 
Allianz responded to Ms Cs complaint in July 2022 and upheld it. It accepted a number of 
failings in its ongoing handling of the claim and in failing to deal with her complaint in a timely 
manner. For the distress and inconvenience caused during this period, it paid Ms C a total of 
£1,000 compensation. 
Ms C remained unhappy and in asked us to look at things for her. She raised new 
complaints which our Investigator explained we couldnt consider. 
The Investigator thought that Allianz had done enough to compensate Ms C for its failings 
from September 2021 to July 2022. 
Ms C didnt agree. In summary she feels we have failed to appreciate the impact of Allianzs 
errors. She says Allianz has repeatedly made promises but made ongoing mistakes 
throughout the life of the claim. She says we should take into account the overall impact and 
the ongoing issues to appreciate that the compensation paid isnt enough. 
So Ms C wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Allianzs handling of the claim has caused Ms C considerable 
distress and inconvenience. 
Dealing with a claim, particularly a fire or water damage claim, can cause considerable 
upheaval and disruption. I can see that Ms C needed to move into alternative 
accommodation. Repairs were not completed in a timely manner and required reinstatement 
works which delayed Ms Cs return to her home. She had to find money to pay a late 
payment fee for storage costs (which Allianz reimbursed) and had to continually chase 
Allianz to make payments on time for her AA and other costs which Ms C was repeatedly 
worried she would have to either pay - or have the impact of non-payment. 
Ms C told us that she intended to put her home up for sale - and as a result of the delays 
caused by Allianz she believes she has missed an opportunity to get a price she wanted due 
to recent changes in the property market. 
I think its clear that Allianzs handling of Ms Cs claim made an already difficult and 
distressing time even worse. And I can understand Ms Cs upset as what she wants is for 
the claim to be finalised promptly and efficiently so that she can get back to a normal life 
rather than raise complaints with Allianz. 
Ms C says she feels she has effectively had to project manage the claim for two years - and 
so the compensation award is relatively low. 
As the Investigator explained, our role is to look at complaints which an insurer has 
responded to within our remit as set out under legislation by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). This means that this service cannot look at issues outside of the timeframe to bring 
complaints to us - or any new complaints that a regulated business hasnt yet had the 
opportunity to respond to. I understand how strongly Ms C feels about her complaints. But 
this means I cannot consider the impact Allianzs handling of her claim has had over the full 
period. 
So I think the compensation award Allianz has paid of £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused from September 2021 and July 2022 is within the range of reasonable 
and in line with awards which we give for similar circumstances. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C. But as I think Allianzs compensation award is fair, this means 
my final decision is that I dont uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman