DRN-4278484
The complaint
Mr H complains that Western Union Payment Services GB Limited (Western Union) wont 
refund money he lost, after he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
laid out in detail by our Investigator in their view, so I wont repeat them in detail here. But, in 
summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Mr H has said, in or around early 2021, he was looking to start up a business, the purpose of 
which was to buy commodities. He registered his interest with a company he found online 
and was approached about an opportunity to buy some product. Mr H has told us the 
companys website had a lot of information about the quality of the product it was selling and 
he was shown videos and photos, that he recognised as a well-known brand. Mr H believed 
he was dealing with a reputable company and so agreed to send money for what he thought 
was the purchase of the product, but unknown to him at the time he was communicating with 
fraudsters.
After making an initial payment, Mr H was told that further payments were needed to cover 
additional costs including insurance, port fees and container detention charges. Between 
February 2021 and June 2021, Mr H made several payments, totalling over £16,000 through 
Western Union. But I can see the actual loss from Western Union Payment Services GB 
Limited was less than this, as one of the payments complained about was refunded, one 
wasnt made by Mr H and another wasnt made through Western Union Payment Services 
GB Limited, but through a separate legal entity. The payments were sent to a number of 
different accounts, that were controlled by the fraudsters.
Mr H suspected hed been scammed in September 2021, when the goods still hadnt arrived, 
so he raised the matter with Western Union. It looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold 
it. In summary, it considered it had followed the correct procedures when progressing Mr Hs 
payments. It added that it had provided him with the relevant information at the time he 
made each of the payments, which included warnings about fraud. As well as this Western 
Union said the recipients of the payments had all the requirements to be able to collect the 
payments.
Unhappy with Western Unions response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service and one 
of our Investigators looked into things, but our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In 
summary he didnt think the payments were unusual or suspicious enough for Western 
Union to have intervened.
Mr H didnt agree with our Investigators view and maintained that the money he lost should 
be refunded to him. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a money transfer / payment service  
provider (in this case, Western Union) is expected to process payments and withdrawals that  
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions.
It is the case that Mr H authorised the payments in dispute and thats accepted by all  
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant  
regulations in place here) that means Mr H is responsible for the payments. That remains  
the case even though Mr H was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But there are times when, dependent on the payment, I might expect a payment service  
provider to question a transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly  
authorised. Broadly speaking, firms (like Western Union) have certain obligations to protect  
customers from fraud.
However, in order for me to recommend that Western Union should refund these payments, I 
need to be satisfied it shouldve had concerns, that at the time Mr H was making the 
payments, he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. I cant decide this with 
the benefit of hindsight, so although we now know that Mr H has sadly fallen victim to a 
scam, this isnt enough for me to order Western Union to refund him the money he has lost.
In this case, I need to decide whether Western Union acted fairly and reasonably in its  
dealings with Mr H when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than 
it did. Ive considered the payments that Mr H has made, but also Ive considered that 
Western Union is primarily used for the purpose of sending payments, often in a particular 
currency, abroad. Payments are typically for friends and family members and payments can 
range from one-off low amounts, regular amounts weekly / monthly, or for larger amounts.
Payment Service Providers have a difficult balance to strike in fulfilling their obligation to 
process payments in line with their customers instructions against identifying, and 
intervening in, potentially fraudulent payments. And this can often be finely balanced.
In the circumstances of this case, where Mr H has made payments abroad, I dont think 
there was anything so unusual or suspicious about this that reasonably ought to have 
enabled Western Union to have foreseen that he may have been at risk of falling victim to a 
fraud. Im also not persuaded that the payments Mr H made were for such large amounts or 
in such an unusual sequence or frequency that they ought to have alerted Western Union.
It is also important to note that payment service providers, such as Western Union, arent a  
bank or building society where there is an ongoing relationship between the parties which  
enables the monitoring of accounts in order to detect and possibly prevent the risk of  
financial harm when a payment is made. This can make it inherently more difficult for a  
business to identify that a customer is at risk of financial harm where there isnt a lot of 
historic usage. Here, there was minimal activity by Mr H, through Western Union, by which it 
could assess if the payments were unusual or out of character in comparison to any account 
history.Western Union did provide Mr H with a digital fraud warning, prior to him making each of the 
payments. All things considered, I think this was proportionate in the circumstances of this 
case and I dont think there was enough going on that ought to have led Western Union to 
intervene or to do more than it did.
Finally, Ive thought about the actions Western Union took once Mr H made it aware of the 
scam. Unfortunately, Western Union wasnt able to recover the funds as they had already 
been collected by the beneficiaries in the destination countries. So I dont think it missed an 
opportunity to recover the money that Mr H sadly lost.
Its very unfortunate Mr H has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Western Union should have 
done more to prevent Mr H from losing this money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H s complaint 
against Western Union Payment Services GB Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman