DRN-3790161
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S complain about problems when they took out a mortgage with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. They say they were misled about the completion date, resulting in them missing 
out on better interest rate products. They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr B and Ms S applied for a mortgage with HSBC. They raised complaints about HSBCs 
appointed solicitors. This included poor communication and a three-day delay in completion.
HSBC brought out new interest rate products after Mr B and Ms S received their mortgage 
offer and before the mortgage completed. Mr B and Ms S expected the mortgage to 
complete on 4 October 2021. This was delayed by three days due to an error by the solicitor. 
Mr B and Ms S say if theyd known completion wouldnt happen on 4 October 2021, theyd 
have applied for a new interest rate product. They ask for compensation for the higher 
interest rate theyre on. 
HSBC upheld Mr B and Ms Ss complaint about the poor service by the solicitor and paid 
compensation. But it didnt agree to compensate them for the difference in interest rates. It 
said they didnt request a new rate.
Our investigator said there was nothing to suggest Mr B and Ms S had considered changing 
products before completion, or that theyd have done so if theyd known completion would be 
a few days later than expected. He said the compensation paid by HSBC for the 
inconvenience and the additional interest incurred during the delay was fair.
Ms S and Mr B didnt agree. Ms S said there was evidence that theyd wanted to take out a 
new rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage lenders withdraw and offer new mortgage products from time to time. HSBC 
issued new product rates on 23 September 2021. This was seven working days before Mr B 
and Ms Ss re-mortgage with HSBC was due to complete on 4 October 2021. It would have 
been possible for Ms S and Mr B to change rates, although there would have been a risk 
that this could delay completion. If Ms S and Mr B had wanted to change products they could 
have contacted HSBC and asked about this. 
Ms S said there was evidence of them trying to take out a new rate before 4 October 2021. 
She said I had previously been advised by HSBC that there would not be sufficient time to 
change rate before we completed. That was incorrect when the date we were due to 
complete changed. Ms S said she called HSBC to ask about new rates before completion 
and was told there wasnt sufficient time without delaying the completion date further. Ms S 
later said shed made calls before and after 4 October 2021, and the most pertinent calls 
would be after 4 October 2021. 
HSBC searched its records and couldnt find any record of these calls. Our investigator 
asked Ms S for information about the dates and times of calls (such as her phone bills or 
records) to assist HSBC in locating them. Ms S said she was unable to do this. She said we 
dont need call recordings, as her past behaviour is evidence of future behaviour. 
Ms S said shes aware that new products become available and had changed rates once 
during the application process. She says they didnt want to delay completion, but would 
have taken out one of these products if theyd known completion wouldnt happen on 4 
October 2021. Ms S says this would have saved them about £600 in interest, and is rational 
consumer behaviour.
When she raised a complaint Ms S said they wanted to meet their deadline for completion to 
avoid going onto their previous lenders standard variable rate (SVR). The additional interest 
Mr B and Ms S paid due to being on the SVR during the three days delay was about £88. So 
Mr B and Ms S would have been better off changing products (which they say would have 
saved them £600) even if this meant delaying completion and being on the SVR for a few 
days. So if, as Ms S says, they wanted to secure one of the new interest rate products Id 
have expected them to contact HSBC and ask to do this. 
When considering what compensation is fair and reasonable, I must be clear about the error 
made and the consequences of the error. The solicitors appointed by HSBC made errors 
which caused inconvenience to Mr B and Ms S and delayed completion. During the delay, 
Mr B and Ms Ss mortgage was on the previous lenders SVR. HSBC paid £500 for the 
inconvenience and to cover the cost of the additional interest incurred (about £88). I think 
that was a fair and reasonable offer to put matters right. 
Ms S and Mr B say that if theyd known in advance the solicitor would make an error that 
would delay completion theyd have acted differently. I dont think the evidence supports this. 
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that Ms S and Mr B asked HSBC about taking 
out a new interest rate product before their mortgage completed. Based on the available 
evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that Ms S and Mr B wanted to take out a new rate and 
didnt do so only because they expected the mortgage to complete on 4 October 2021 rather 
than a few days later.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by HSBC Bank plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman