DRN-3112421
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA approved her for a credit account 
which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time. Miss D is also unhappy that PayPal 
subsequently increased the credit limit on her account on several occasions, all of which 
Miss D feels were unaffordable for her.
What happened
Miss D applied for a PayPal credit account in September 2015. Her application was 
approved, and Miss D was issued with a credit account with an initial credit limit of £650.
PayPal subsequently increased the credit limit on Miss Ds account several times, with the 
final increase being to £4,150 in March 2020.
In November 2020, Miss D raised a complaint with PayPal on the basis that she didnt feel 
that any of the provisions of credit had been affordable for her at those times. 
PayPal looked at Miss Ds complaint, but they felt that theyd undertaken checks into Miss 
Ds financial position before all the provisions of credit, and that thered been nothing 
resulting from these checks that should have given them cause to suspect that the credit 
being offered to Miss D might not be affordable for her at those times. So, PayPal didnt 
uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that there were instances where 
PayPal didnt conduct reasonable and proportionate checks into Miss Ds financial position 
before offering further credit to her.
However, our investigator also felt that if PayPal had conducted more appropriate checks 
into Miss Ds financial position at those times, that there wouldnt have been anything 
resulting from those checks that should have given PayPal any cause to suspect that Miss D 
couldnt afford the further credit being offered to her, such that PayPals decision to increase 
the credit limit on Miss Ds account wouldnt have changed. Because of this, our investigator 
also didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Having reviewed the information that PayPal have provided to this service surrounding the 
initial account application in 2015, Im not satisfied that PayPal did that here. 
I say this because the Miss Ds application data states that at that time she had a net 
monthly of income of between £501 to £1,000, while her monthly living expenses are 
confirmed as being between £0 and £500. Given the wide nature of these monetary 
brackets, the possibility remains that Miss D may have been earning an amount at the low 
end of the £501 too £1,000 bracket, while having monthly living expenses that were at the 
high end of the £0 to £500 bracket  such that Miss D would have potentially had little to no 
disposable income.
Furthermore, while PayPal confirm that a review of Miss Ds credit file would have taken 
place at the point of application, theyve confirmed thatre unable to provide any information 
about any this because these checks were automated at that time and the information hasnt 
been retained and so cant be evidenced. 
However, while I have concerns over whether PayPal did undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Miss Ds financial position at the time of the initial provision of 
credit in 2015, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that I feel that PayPal shouldnt have 
provided the credit to Miss D that it did.
I say this because, as an impartial dispute resolution service, in for me to be able to fairly 
and reasonably conclude that PayPal shouldnt have offered the credit to Miss D in 2015, Id 
need to see some confirming evidence that Miss Ds financial position at that time was such 
that PayPal should have seen  had the appropriate checks been conducted by PayPal  
that Miss D wouldnt have been able to afford the credit that PayPal then offered to her.
In short, this means that Id need to gain a clear understanding of Miss Ds financial position 
at that time to confirm that the credit being provided to her was unaffordable. This 
understanding would most readily be achieved by reviewing Miss Ds current account 
statements for the time in question, which in most circumstances provides a good indication 
of an individuals financial position at a given time.
Unfortunately, Miss D hasnt been able to obtain bank statements for the time in question 
here. And while Miss D has supplied a copy of her credit file to this service, given that the 
initial application took place in 2015, it isnt possible to gain a reasonable understanding of 
Miss Ds wider financial position at that time from her recently provided credit file   although 
its notable that what information from 2015 does remain on Miss Ds recently provided credit 
file doesnt provide any indication that Miss D was struggling financially at that time.
As such, I dont feel that theres sufficient information available to me here to be able to fairly 
and reasonably conclude that PayPal, had they conducted the checks into Miss Ds financial 
position that they reasonably should have done, ought reasonably to have concluded from 
the information resulting from those checks that Miss D mist likely wouldnt have been able 
to afford the credit she was applying for, such that it shouldnt have been offered.
Following the initial issuance of the credit account to Miss D, PayPal subsequently 
implemented six separate credit limit increases, across a period of approximately three and 
half years, on the account. PayPal have confirmed that the checks that would have been confirmed before offering 
these credit limit increases to Miss D also cant be evidenced but have stated that such 
checks would have been undertaken. 
However, having reviewed the information available to me regarding Miss Ds financial 
position at the time of these credit limit increases, which in the absence of Miss D current 
account statements includes Miss Ds recently provided credit file and the statements of the 
credit account provided by PayPal, I also dont feel that this information allows me to fairly 
and impartially state that the result of any checks that PayPal should have undertaken was 
that Miss D might not have been able to afford those credit limit increases at those times.
One reason I say this is because while Miss Ds recently provided credit file does show 
missed payments on some of her credit commitments that can be an indicator of potential 
financial difficulty, these missed payments dont begin to appear on her credit file until early 
2021, which was several months after the final credit limit increase on her account which 
took place in March 2020. This means that for all the credit limit increases that did take place 
on the PayPal credit account, from the information available to me on Miss Ds recently 
provided credit file, I cant see any indicators of potential financial difficulty that would have 
been visible to PayPal at the times that they offered those credit limit increases to Miss D.
Additionally, Miss Ds PayPal credit account statements demonstrate that Miss D maintained 
her account within the credit limit in almost all instances, often maintaining the balance of the 
account comfortably under the credit limit, and only going over the credit limit on her account 
on two occasions by small amounts. And I dont feel that the picture of Miss Ds financial 
position that presents itself from these credit account statements is such that PayPal 
shouldnt have offered to increase the credit limit on the account at the times that they did.
So, to summarise, while PayPal havent been able to evidence that they undertook the 
checks into Miss Ds financial position that they should have done before offering new or 
additional credit to Miss D, it doesnt follow from this that PayPal didnt undertake such 
checks, and indeed PayPal maintain that they did.
Furthermore, even accepting that it was the case that PayPal didnt undertake checks into 
Miss Ds financial position before offering credit to her, theres nothing in the information 
available to me regarding Miss Ds financial position at those times that I feel should  
reasonably have given PayPal cause to suspect that the credit being offered to Miss D was 
unaffordable for her, had PayPal undertaken such checks at those times. And this means 
that I feel that, from the information available to me, had PayPal undertaken the checks that 
they should have done, their decision to offer the new or additional credit to Miss D would 
reasonably have remained the same.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that PayPal have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
PayPal to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that 
Miss D was wanting, but I hope that she will understand, based on all Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman