DRN-4234730
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that Target Servicing Limited delayed in processing a deed of
postponement in respect of their help to buy loan. This meant there was a delay in
processing a re-mortgage application.
What happened
Miss C and Mr S bought their property in 2020. They took out a mortgage, and also took a
help to buy loan to part-fund their deposit.
Help to buy loans are government-funded shared equity loans. The lender is a government
agency, and the scheme is administered by Target.
In 2022, as they came to the end of their initial two-year fixed rate, Miss C and Mr S decided
to move their mortgage to another lender.
Because the help to buy loan is secured over their property by way of a second charge, their
new mortgage lender needed Target to agree to a deed of postponement  so that when the
old lender removed its charge, the new lender could take first charge ahead of the help to
buy loan.
Target charged Miss C and Mr S a £115 fee for the application  which according to its own
timescales should have taken four to six weeks to process. Unfortunately, there were
delays in completing it, and although the application was first made in July 2022, it didnt
go through until October 2022.
Miss C and Mr S complained to Target. It doesnt appear that they received a response, so
they referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said Target should pay
Miss C and Mr S:
The difference between their old lenders SVR and their new lenders fixed rate, for
the delayed period past the maximum six weeks expected timeframe, until
completion of the new mortgage; and
pay £200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Target asked our investigator to confirm the completion date so it could carry out its
calculations. This information was provided to Target. We didnt hear back and Miss C and
Mr S were unhappy with the time taken to resolve things, so they asked for an
Ombudsmans final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October 2023, an extract of which is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Id like to thank Miss C and Mr S for their
patience while waiting for their case to be referred to an Ombudsman.
Miss C and Mr S applied to their new lender, and received a mortgage offer on 7 June 2022.
They then applied to Target. Their old mortgage fixed rate ended, and they reverted to their
lenders standard variable rate (SVR) on 17 July.
Miss C and Mr S solicitors sent all the necessary paperwork to Target on 2 August. It's
therefore reasonable to expect that, in accordance with its usual timescales, Target should
have sent the deed back to the solicitors by around 13 September at the latest. But it didnt
in fact send it until 17 October. This is a delay of around five weeks.
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that there was delay in this case. Targets
normal timescale for returning a deed of postponement is four to six weeks. Im therefore
satisfied that its reasonable to hold Target responsible for a five-week delay. Target has
also agreed to compensate Miss C and Mr S accordingly.
But I dont think its fair to hold Target responsible for the entire period Miss C and Mr S
spent on the SVR, between 17 July and 9 November. I say that because they would always
have spent some time on the SVR, even if Target had processed the deed within normal
timescales.
The mortgage offer was issued on 7 June, but the necessary paperwork wasnt sent to
Target by Miss C and Mr S solicitors until 2 August. I cant hold Target responsible for any
delay  whatever the cause  before it received the documents. And although Target sent
the deed to the solicitors on 17 October, the mortgage didnt complete until 9 November.
Again, Target is not responsible for this period. All I can fairly hold Target responsible for is
the additional five weeks, outside its usual timescales, it took to process the deed.
The rest of the time Miss C and Mr S spent on SVR  before and after Target was involved,
and for the time it should have taken Target to process the deed  is not something I can
fairly hold Target responsible for. Im therefore satisfied that the financial loss Miss C and
Mr S have suffered because of Targets delay is five additional weeks on their lenders SVR.
Putting things right
But for Targets delay, Miss C and Mr S would have had five more weeks of their mortgage 
being charged at their new lenders lower interest rate  and five fewer weeks of the old 
lenders SVR. In my view, its fair for Target to pay them the difference between the two.
Miss C and Mr S new interest rate was 2.43%. Their old lenders SVR was:
6.85% between 13 September and 21 September; and
7.35% between 22 September and 17 October.
I would like Miss C and Mr S, when they respond to my provisional decision, to confirm the
balance of their mortgage as at the date of redemption on 9 November 2022.
In the interests of simplicity, I intend to direct Target to pay them five weeks of daily interest
on that balance, at:
an annual rate of 4.42% for 9 days - the difference between the two interest rates
between 13 September and 21 September; and
an annual rate of 4.92% for 26 days - the difference between the two interest ratesbetween 22 September and 17 October.
Add 8% simple interest* from the date they made each payment for the interest
charged to the date on which Target makes the settlement payment.
Im also satisfied that Targets delays also caused Miss C and Mr S upset and worry at an
already difficult time. Im satisfied £200 is fair compensation.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to expect Target to refund the
application fee  since this was the fee for the service Miss C and Mr S wanted, and the
service they eventually  after delays  got.
I note Miss C and Mr S and our investigator have referred to the application fee being £150.
Ive seen evidence that it was in fact £115. But that makes little difference here as Im not
directing that be refunded.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Target Servicing Limited considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should
tell Miss C and Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C and Mr S a
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs
if appropriate.
Miss C and Mr S responded to the provisional decision. They accepted the outcome and 
supplied their redemption statement as requested, to help Target do its redress calculations. 
Their total balance as of 9 November 2022 was £188,199.80. This consisted of their current 
mortgage balance and an interest adjustment to redemption.
Target didnt respond to the provisional decision before the deadline provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note neither side has provided any new evidence or arguments. So I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. As such, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out 
in my provisional findings to date and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to pay Miss C and Mr S five 
weeks of daily interest on a balance of £188,199.80, at:
an annual rate of 4.42% for 9 days;
an annual rate of 4.92% for 26 days; and
Add 8% simple interest* from the date they made each payment for the interest
charged to the date on which Target Servicing Limited makes the settlement 
payment.
Im also satisfied that Target Servicing Limiteds delays also caused Miss C and Mr S upset 
and worry at an already difficult time. Im satisfied £200 is fair compensation that Target 
Servicing Limited should pay Miss C and Mr S.*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Target Servicing Limited considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should
tell Miss C and Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C and Mr S a
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs
if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman