DRN-3389616
The complaint
Miss W complains about how Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) administered her savings 
related share scheme.
What happened
YBS administered the savings related share scheme offered by Miss Ws employer 
(company A). Miss W complained to YBS that they misled her and ignored her instructions 
in the way they carried out certain transactions in 2020 and 2021. She said she had been 
financially disadvantaged by YBSs actions and that they had caused her distress and 
inconvenience. Miss Ws complaint was about two main issues. 
Complaint point 1 
Miss W complained, in summary, that:
When one of her share scheme accounts matured in October 2020, she opted to buy 
and keep shares at the fixed exercise price. YBS sent her an email on 23 September 
2020 to say they had received her request and that it would be processed on 1 October 
2020, although it may take some time to complete. 
When she had heard nothing by February 2021, she contacted YBS and was told she 
needed to confirm her instructions. Miss W sent confirmation to YBS on 3 February 
2021. YBS then actioned the request to purchase shares and Miss Ws account was 
closed on 11 February 2021. Miss W received her share certificate in April 2021. 
She didnt receive a letter that YBS claim to have sent her on 30 September 2020 telling 
her that the market price of shares in company A was less than the option price at which 
she would be buying them. That letter said: if you still want to buy shares at the Option 
Price, please contact us by telephone or by letter no later than 1st April 2021.
In the absence of any further instruction from her, YBS should have abided by her 
original instruction to buy the shares rather than waiting for months.
She missed out on an interim dividend payment on the shares in January 2021 (worth 
£113.74) and a final dividend payment (worth £129.25). YBS also had the benefit of 
£3600 of her cash for six months, interest free. 
YBS should be consistent in their methods of communication and send any letter 
requiring a response by recorded delivery. They had no system for checking that Miss W 
had received the 30 September 2020 letter and should have chased it up when they 
received no response. 
In response, YBS have said they did nothing wrong in their processing of Miss Ws share 
purchase. They say the letter of 30 September 2020 was sent to Miss W and it asked her to 
contact them by 1 April 2021. She confirmed her instructions on 3 February 2021 and her 
request to purchase the shares was actioned within a reasonable time. They do not accept 
that they are responsible for Miss W missing any dividend payments. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ws complaint on this point. Miss W disagrees with our 
investigators view and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Complaint point 2
After Miss W was made redundant from company A, YBS wrote to her in December 2020 
about her options in relation to another three share scheme accounts she held. Miss W 
completed a form on 2 January 2021 with instructions to close the accounts on 24 April 2021 
and exercise her option to buy shares. 
Miss W complained that YBS misled her into investing £600 into the share save accounts 
when the maximum allowed for each account was £500. She said YBS should not have 
accepted the additional amounts and held onto them for four months. She was also unhappy 
that her accounts were closed on 22 April 2021, two days earlier than the date she had 
instructed. 
In response, YBS said they had refunded the additional payments of £100 on each account 
to Miss W. They said that closure for Company A shares took place fortnightly on Thursdays 
and Miss Ws three accounts were closed on 22 April 2021 as that was closest to the date 
she had instructed. 
While Miss Ws complaint was with our service, YBS accepted that they should have paid 
8% simple interest on the £300 that was returned to Miss W when her accounts were closed. 
They have now offered to pay that as well as £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Miss W. Miss W has said she accepts YBSs offer on this complaint point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss W has now accepted YBSs offer in relation to her second complaint point, I will not 
be making any findings on that issue in this decision. I have however reviewed the 
information on that matter as I appreciate that both of Miss Ws complaint points were 
ongoing at the same time and contributed to her concern about the service she received 
from YBS. 
  
Complaint point 1
It's not disputed that YBS received Miss Ws request to buy and keep shares at the fixed 
exercise price. They acknowledged her request on 23 September 2020. The key point at 
dispute relates to the YBS letter dated 30 September 2020, which Miss W has said she 
didnt receive. 
The purpose of that letter was to tell Miss W that the market price of shares in company A 
was less than the fixed price at which she had asked to buy shares. I think it was reasonable 
for YBS to check with Miss W that she wanted to go ahead with her request given the market 
price of the shares. If she chose to do so, her request would likely be processed later than 
the date YBS had initially said (1 October 2020). But that would not affect the price at which 
she would be buying the shares as that was fixed. 
  Unfortunately, Miss W has said she didnt receive YBSs letter and I have no reason to doubt 
what she has said. The copy of the letter provided by YBS is dated 30 September 2020 and 
correctly addressed to Miss W. YBSs internal record of their communications with Miss W 
lists the letter as having been sent on 1 October 2020. 
  
I cant be sure YBS posted the letter dated 30 September 2020 to Miss W. But in situations 
like this I need to make a decision on the balance of probabilities. And based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely YBS sent the letter, but it wasnt received by 
Miss W. 
The letter said Miss W should let YBS know by 1 April 2021 if she still wanted to buy shares 
at the option price. That gave Miss W a long time in which to respond and YBS have said 
they wouldnt normally chase for a response. In this case, neither party took any action until 
Miss W contacted YBS in February 2021. YBS asked Miss W to confirm her instructions and 
after she had done so they actioned them promptly. 
Miss W has suggested a number of steps that YBS could have taken to avoid the delay that 
arose because she didnt receive the 30 September 2020 letter. She has said YBS could 
have emailed her as they had done with other communications; they could have sent the 
letter by recorded delivery; and they could have contacted her when they didnt receive a 
reply from her. 
I agree that the steps suggested by Miss W could potentially have prevented the delay in 
YBS actioning her request to buy shares. But it is not my role to tell YBS what processes 
they should have in place for communicating with their customers. They are not obliged to 
communicate in a particular way  for example, by email or recorded delivery  and so I 
dont think I can fairly say they did anything wrong in this case. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to say that YBS should have simply gone ahead and acted on Miss Ws 
original instruction in the absence of any response to their letter about the market price.      
I have considered everything that Miss W has said, and I accept that it must have been very 
frustrating for her that the share purchase took as long as it did. But, as I dont think YBS did 
anything wrong, it would not be fair and reasonable for me to hold them responsible for any 
dividends Miss W has said she missed out on. I wont be asking YBS to do anything further 
in relation to this complaint point.
My final decision
YBS have already made an offer to pay 8% simple interest on the £300 that was returned to 
Miss W when her accounts were closed, plus £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to her. I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should pay the compensation they have 
offered, as described above, if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman