DRN-3321541
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money he sent to a 
fraudster.
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S says he did some freelance work online and was approached by someone who asked 
him to sell certain items on a commission basis. The seller and Mr S communicated by email 
and reached an agreement that Mr S would list items for sale and take payment from the 
buyer. He would retain 5% of the purchase price plus selling costs and transfer the balance 
to the seller, who would deliver the items once sold. To satisfy himself the seller was 
legitimate Mr S researched the business the seller said he was a director of and asked him 
to send a copy of his passport. 
Mr S listed a lawnmower for the seller on a well-known marketplace and found a buyer. The 
buyer paid Mr Ss PayPal account where the funds were held for 30 days. Then, as agreed 
with the seller, Mr S transferred the funds to his Starling account and transferred £2,050 
(purchase price less his commission and fees) to the seller. Mr S then contacted the buyer to 
ask for a review and was told the lawnmower hadnt been delivered. The seller initially told 
Mr S hed been away and would deliver the lawnmower but later stopped responding to Mr 
Ss emails. Mr S knows now that the seller used a stolen identity to persuade him he was 
legitimate. 
Mr S is unhappy because PayPal have refunded the buyer and taken the full payment from 
another of his accounts leaving his account overdrawn. As well as having a financial impact 
the scam has left Mr S feeling depressed and desperate. 
Mr S thinks that Starling should have queried why he was making the payment to the 
fraudster and advised him he might be falling victim to a scam.  
What Starling say
Starling say that it is unable to provide Mr S with a refund because the funds he transferred 
to the fraudster originated from his PayPal account. Starling advised Mr S to contact PayPal. 
It also said that it had taken steps to recover Mr Ss funds but had been told no funds 
remained. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ss complaint recommended that it be upheld. He 
considered Mr Ss complaint under the CRM Code and concluded that Mr S didnt ignore an 
effective warning. He also felt Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing he was making 
genuine payments to the director of an agricultural business. 
Starling didnt agree with the investigator. It said it doesnt believe the CRM Code applies to 
this complaint as Mr S didnt send his own money to the fraudster. It felt Mr S was expecting 
a cut of the proceeds of sale of the lawnmower and received these funds when the buyer 
made the payment to PayPal. Mr S then transferred the remaining funds to the scammer. So 
Starling believes Mr Ss issue is with PayPal as it claimed back the funds and that this is the 
point of Mr Ss loss. Starling also suggested that Mr S was facilitating fraud and the CRM 
Code wasnt implemented to protect the perpetrators of fraud. But in any event Mr S acted 
recklessly in transferring funds to the fraudster without first checking the buyer had received 
the lawnmower and, in the circumstances, no warning would have prevented the scam. 
The complaint was passed to me. As I reached a different outcome to the investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2022. In it I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I understand Mr S has been the victim of a scam and am sorry to hear about his loss, but I 
dont consider Starling is responsible. The main reason for this is that the funds Mr S sent 
from his Starling account werent his, so at the time of the transfer from his Starling account 
Mr S didnt suffer a loss. When Mr S received funds from the buyer of the lawnmower, he 
retained what was due to him and transferred the remaining funds to his Starling account. 
From this account he transferred the balance on to the scammer. This amount never 
belonged to Mr S.
I appreciate that Mr S later suffered a loss when PayPal removed funds from his account 
when the buyer didnt receive a lawnmower as agreed. This is the point of Mr Ss loss. But 
as funds didnt leave Mr Ss Starling account at this point, I cant hold Starling responsible.
I understand this leaves Mr S in a difficult position, as he has lost out as a result of a scam 
but is being passed between the parties concerned. But I cant fairly hold Starling 
responsible for Mr Ss loss.
But even if I were to accept that there was a loss from Mr Ss Starling account and consider 
Mr Ss claim under the CRM Code, I still wouldnt be asking Starling to provide a refund. I 
dont consider that the payment was so remarkable that Starling ought to have believed that 
there was a scam risk. While I appreciate the amount Mr S has lost represents a significant 
amount for him, the payment wasnt so large or unusual that I think it ought to have raised 
concerns for Starling, to the point where I could reasonably have expected it to provide a 
warning. I also dont consider Mr S met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I say 
this because he transferred funds to the fraudster without checking that the lawnmower had 
been delivered to the buyer. In addition, he sent the payment to an individual with a different 
name to the seller. 
Im also mindful that when Mr S made the payment Starling should fairly and reasonably also 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payment Mr S made was unusual or suspicious. But, as I said above, I consider Mr Ss 
payment request was unremarkable so I dont think it stood out enough for Starling to have 
been concerned that he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time it 
was made. So I think Starling acted reasonably in making the payment without discussing it 
with Mr S.Ive gone on to consider Starlings actions when Mr S reported the scam to it. Id expect 
Starling to contact the receiving bank promptly to try to recover Mr Ss funds. Im satisfied 
from the evidence I have seen that Starling did so, but the receiving bank confirmed that no 
funds remained. 
Starling responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr S 
didnt agree with my findings. He made the following points:
- This was a sophisticated scam in which the scammer went as far as stealing 
someones identity. 
- Starling had a responsibility to protect his money and it failed to do so, causing him 
financial hardship.
- Mr S doesnt understand why the outcome has changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about Mr Ss response my decision remains the same and for the 
same reasons I set out in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced above). 
Our service operates a two-stage process. An investigator makes an initial assessment and 
if either party disagrees with it, they can ask an ombudsman to issue a final decision. 
Starling disagreed with our investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review 
everything afresh, so Mr Ss complaint was passed to me as an ombudsman. Because I was 
minded to reach a different outcome to the investigator, I set out my position in a provisional 
decision and provided Mr S and Starling the opportunity to respond. I have now considered 
Mr Ss response in order to reach a final decision. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S has been the victim of a scam this doesnt mean that Starling 
should provide Mr S with a refund. The main reason why I cant reasonably uphold Mr Ss 
complaint is that Mr S didnt suffer a loss at the time he transferred funds from his Starling 
account to the fraudster. At this point, Mr S was transferring funds that didnt belong to him 
and so he didnt suffer a loss.
But Ive also thought about whether Starling should have recognised that Mr S was at risk of 
financial harm when he made the payment and taken further action. There is a balance to be 
struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free access to their 
funds. In this case I dont think the payment Mr S made was sufficiently unusual or out of 
character for him and his account that Id have expected Starling to have done more.
I realise Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam and has lost out financially as a result, but 
I cant reasonably hold Starling responsible. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman