DRN-3594094
The complaint
Mr D complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt send persistent debt letters 
and didnt provide him with information he requested about his credit card account.  
What happened
Mr D had a credit card with Barclays since around 2015. For some years he made the 
minimum monthly payment due on the account.  
Mr D complained to Barclays in March 2022, as he became aware that his balance was 
greater than £3,000, but he felt he had repaid well in excess of this in the preceding four or 
five years. He queried whether interest was being applied correctly. Mr D also said he should 
have received persistent debt letters from Barclays and thought these hadnt been sent. 
Mr D also complained about not having access to account statements. 
Barclays responded and didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said interest had been applied in 
line with the terms of the account. However, it said it appreciated Mr Ds frustration as he 
had been making payments each month but had not seen the balance reduce greatly. As a 
gesture of goodwill, it stopped interest from being applied for the following three months.  
Barclays also said Mr D had made the minimum payment each month and his account was 
identified as being in persistent debt. It said this was where a consumer had paid more in 
interest and fees than their principal amount over the preceding 18 months. Barclays said 
Mr D should have received a letter from it confirming this, which would have advised him of 
the options available to him. 
Mr D remained unhappy and so complained to this Service.  Our Investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint. Mr D didnt agree, and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was concerned that the balance owed on his credit card account wasnt decreasing as 
he thought it should because Barclays wasnt applying interest correctly, so Ive considered 
this. Its important to say that we dont offer a service here where we check whether interest 
has been correctly calculated and applied. However, having looked at account statements 
for around 3 years  to April 2022  I cant see any obvious errors with how interest is being 
calculated and applied. So Im satisfied Barclays hasnt made any errors here. 
Mr D told this Service that he hasnt had, and so hasnt used, his credit card for some time. 
Hes concerned that the debt is still quite high when he hasnt been adding to it over the past 
few years. 
It might well be the case that Mr D doesnt use his card regularly. But he has an outstanding 
balance on his account, and until thats cleared Barclays will continue to charge interest and 
take monthly payments. The issue here is that Mr D has been making only the minimum 
payment and when a credit card account is managed in this way it can take quite some time 
to clear the balance. 
I can see that Barclays has taken steps to inform consumers, in the account terms, that how 
an account is managed can make a difference to how long it takes to pay off and can add to 
the amount the consumer ends up paying. The relevant term says:  
if you only make your minimum payment each month itll take longer and cost more to pay 
off your balance. You can always choose to pay more.
Mr D also thinks Barclays should have sent him persistent debt letters over the last few 
years. 
In 2018 the FCA issued rules for businesses to follow where a consumer is in persistent 
debt. This is when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than they have 
repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months. In summary, the rules say 
that if a business assesses that a consumer is in persistent debt, it should write to them at 
the 18 month stage, the 27 month stage and the 36 month stage. These letters should, 
amongst other things, explain to consumers that increasing their payments will reduce the 
cost of their borrowing and pay off the balance sooner. Mr D complained that he should have 
received these letters but didnt.  
Barclays said it sent these letters to Mr D. It wasnt able to provide this Service with copies of 
the actual letters sent, but it provided templates of the persistent debt letters it would usually 
send. It also provided a copy of its system notes showing that it identified Mr D as being in 
persistent debt and showing that the necessary persistent debt letters were sent on 
3 September 2020, 8 June 2021, 13 July 2021 and 9 March 2022. From what I can see, 
Barclays had Mr Ds correct address on file, so I think its more likely than not it sent these 
letters. 
I appreciate Mr D said he didnt receive these letters. However, its enough that Barclays has 
shown that these letters were sent. It cant be held responsible for letters that may have 
been lost in the post. So Im satisfied Barclays has done what it needed to do here in relation 
to sending persistent debt letters. 
I can see that Barclays also emailed Mr D on an almost monthly basis between the first and 
second persistent debt letters being sent out to remind him of the higher payment it 
recommended in order to avoid remaining in persistent debt. I know that Mr D didnt receive 
these as Barclays used an old email address. But its for Mr D to update Barclays when his 
contact details change, so its enough that Barclays sent the emails. 
Mr D complained about not having access to account statements. However, I understand 
hes had access to his account online and this would have included access to statements. 
Having access to statements means Mr D also had access to account information, such as 
payments made by him and the amount of interest applied. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr D, but I could only ask Barclays to take further action 
here if I thought it had made an error or acted unfairly, and Im satisfied it didnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman