DRN-2377843
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) has dealt with a claim he made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
In August 2014 Mr H entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar 
panel system from a company called Smart Save Solutions (Smart Save).  The cost of the 
system was £7,000 and was paid for by a loan arranged with BPF.  The loan was to be 
repaid over 10 years with interest.
Mr H has explained that he was told by Smart Save that the financial benefits generated by 
the solar panel system would cover the cost of servicing the loan  effectively making it self-
funding over the 10-year loan term.
The financial benefits generated by the system would come in the form of energy bill savings 
and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.  Mr H says 
that the benefits hes received havent covered the cost of servicing the monthly loan 
payments  so the system was misrepresented to him.
Under s.75 a finance company can be held responsible for misrepresentations or breaches 
of contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services. So, Mr H made a claim to 
BPF in December 2019.
BPF upheld Mr Hs concerns.  It noted that in 2015 the solar panel industry supervisory 
body, Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC), concluded there was evidence that 
Smart Saves business practices had breached the Consumer Code.
In order to put things right, BPF commissioned a solar industry expert to provide a calculator 
which estimates the total financial benefits generated by a solar panel system (for both 
energy savings and FiT payments).  BPF used the calculator to determine the likely benefits 
to Mr H over the 10-year loan term. It calculated that the financial benefit the solar panels 
would generate would exceed the total cost of the loan over 10 years  and so said no 
compensation is payable to Mr H.  However, BPF did offer to reduce the interest rate to 0% 
for the remaining balance of the loan term.
Mr H didnt accept the offer and referred his complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint should not be 
upheld.  In summary, he said the calculation carried out by BPF was in line with what our 
Service would recommend, and it wasnt actually required to reduce the loan interest rate  
so the offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed and said the benefits from the system in any year had never exceeded the 
cost of servicing the loan. Mr H also explained that his electric bills had never reduced and 
claimed the loan payments had, in fact, increased from £91 per month to £91.73 per month.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion.  As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to review everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as BPF has accepted the claim I wont expand 
further. 
BPF has also accepted that Smart Save didnt act in accordance with the Consumer Code.  
It agreed Mr H was sold the solar panel system on the basis that it would be self-funding  
and Im persuaded thats likely to have been the case.
So, the key issue for me to decide is whether the calculation carried out by BPF and its 
proposed resolution to Mr Hs complaint is fair and reasonable.
Self-funding calculation
Mr H was told the financial benefits generated by the solar panel system would cover the 
cost of servicing the loan with BPF and effectively make the system self-funding.
To calculate whether the system will pay for itself, its necessary to take account of the 
benefits already generated, and likely benefits estimated for the balance of the 10-year loan 
term.  The way in which that calculation was performed by BPF was in line with the 
methodology compiled by an industry expert  and that approach is the same as what I 
would recommend in complaints such as this.
The full calculation details and assumptions used have been provided to Mr H previously 
and so I wont repeat them again here. But in summary, the calculation concluded that Mr H 
would receive a financial benefit of £11,249.87.  This sum is more than the total loan cost 
including the repayment of the principal sum and interest.
I understand Mr H disagrees and believes the solar panels have never provided the level of 
benefit set out in the calculation. But the assumptions are based upon actual levels of 
energy generation to date and on balance Im satisfied thats an appropriate way for BPF to 
approach things.
As its calculated no loss, I agree that BPFs position is fair and reasonable.  In addition, by 
offering to reduce the interest charged to 0% for the balance of the loan term, Im satisfied it 
has done more than was required.
Variation in the monthly loan payment
Mr H has explained that he believes the monthly payments had increased slightly  from £91 
to £91.73.
Ive considered this point and note the actual monthly loan payment due has always been 
£91.73 under the finance agreement.  However, upon investigation it seems there was a 
variation in payments in late 2019 when two monthly payments were not made.  The payment method changed from direct debit to standing order for two months and the 
reduced rate of £91, and then a direct debit was reinstated and the correct amount of £91.73 
resumed each month. The reason for the lower monthly payment is because a standing 
order amount is sent by the payer (Mr H), rather than being collected by the payee (BPF).
So, Im not persuaded BPF has made any variation or error in relation to the monthly 
payments collected.
Summary
As explained above, Im satisfied the offer BPF has made to Mr H is fair and I cant 
reasonably ask it to do more.
I realise Mr H may be disappointed with my conclusions, but I must assure him that Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman