DRN-2523782
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy as she believes she was misled by Virgin Money plc with regard how 
much interest she would receive on a savings account.
What happened
Mrs S opened a savings account in branch with Virgin Money on 8 May 2019. Mrs S chose 
this savings account because it advertised a 3% interest rate. The savings account was a 
fixed term account and permitted monthly deposits of up to £250 per month. The interest 
accrued on the savings account was paid in bulk at the end of the fixed term, which for this 
particular account was 1 May 2020.
On 1 May 2020 Mrs S was disappointed to discover that interest of approximately £43 had 
been credited to her account. This was considerably below what Mrs S was expecting, and 
so she complained to Virgin Money about this.
Virgin Money responded to Mrs Ss complaint on 14 May 2020. They explained that the 
interest had been calculated correctly, and so they didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S 
wasnt happy with this response and so referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this case. However, they also felt that Virgin Money had 
calculated the interest correctly, and they couldnt see that Virgin Money had misled Mrs S in 
any way about how the interest would be calculated, so they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs S feels strongly that she has been treated unfairly here and that she was 
led to expect that her savings account would provide a greater return of interest than the 
amount actually paid.
Mrs S has stated that she was not provided with any documents relating to the savings 
account at the time that she opened the account in branch. Virgin Money dispute Mrs Ss 
claim here and advise that the provision of account documents to customers, including a key 
features document, is part of the standard procedure of opening a new account in branch.
Obviously, I was not present at the time that Mrs S opened the account, and so I have to 
consider what I believe was most likely to have occurred, on the balance of probability, with 
the information I have available to me. In this instance, because I am aware of the general 
robustness of banks procedures when it comes to regulated activities, such as this one, I 
feel that its more likely that Mrs S would have been provided with account documents, and 
that these documents would have explained how interest on the savings account was 
calculated.
However, I must also note that if it were the case that account documents werent presented 
to Mrs S at the time that she opened that account, those documents would have been 
available to her had she requested them, and Mrs S would also have been able to ask 
specifically about how the interest on the savings account was calculated.
Additionally, Mrs S hasnt stated that she was told by any of Virgin Moneys staff that the 
interest on the account would be calculated in the manner which she thought it would be. 
Indeed, Mrs S has explained to this service that her calculation of the interest amount is 
based on assumptions made by herself as to how the interest might be calculated.
Unfortunately, in this instance, the assumptions made by Mrs S are incorrect. So, its difficult 
for me to conclude that Virgin Money have misrepresented the amount of interest that would 
be paid on this account, because Mrs Ss expectation of the amount of interest that should 
have been paid to her isnt based on any information about the method of interest calculation 
provided to her by Virgin Money.
Having reviewed the amount of interest that Mrs S received on the savings account its clear 
that Virgin Money calculated this amount correctly and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
It follows that I cant fairly say that Virgin Money have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, 
and unfortunately it seems that Mrs Ss expectations regarding the amount of interest she 
should receive werent grounded in a correct understanding of how the savings account 
operated. I would also note that the method of interest calculation used by the savings 
account is not unusual for an account of this type, and as such cant be considered as being 
non-standard in any way.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Virgin Money to take 
any further action at this time. I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mrs S was 
hoping for, but I hope I have been able to explain why I am satisfied that Virgin Money paid 
the correct amount of interest to her and havent misled her as to the amount of interest that 
she should have received.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman