DRN-3893299
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that RAC Insurance Limited left him without car insurance cover for several 
hours due to an administrative error on its part.
What happened
Mr H arranged with RAC for his annual policy to renew from September 2022. On the 
morning of the day of renewal, Mr H contacted RAC to request a copy of his policy 
documents. The representative Mr H dealt with then cancelled his policy by mistake. Mr H 
didnt agree to the cancellation and wasnt aware of it at the time. 
It was only when Mr H received proof of his no claims discount (NCD) later that day that he 
became aware there might be a problem. On contacting RAC that afternoon to find out what 
had happened, he discovered his policy had been cancelled that morning. RAC apologised 
for the mistake, reinstated the policy as per Mr Hs wishes and re-sent him the relevant 
paperwork to confirm this. 
When Mr H complained to RAC about the error, it offered to pay him £125 as compensation 
for the inconvenience it had caused. Unhappy with RACs response, Mr H brought a 
complaint to this service. He said that, given his occupation, being caught driving without 
insurance could have had serious implications for him and led to judicial proceedings.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. They believed RACs offer was fair given Mr H hadnt been caught driving without 
insurance which meant the potential consequences he mentioned hadnt, fortunately, come 
about. 
Mr H asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman to be reviewed afresh. He felt there 
should be a more severe outcome for RAC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The parties agree that RACs error meant Mr H was left without car insurance for a time. And 
that compensations due for the distress and inconvenience he was caused as a result. The 
key issue for me to consider is whether RACs offer of £125 was fair.
Deciding on awards for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues 
involved are subjective by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult 
to determine. With that in mind, Im glad to see that RAC dealt with the matter swiftly by 
immediately apologising to Mr H when the mistake became apparent and reinstating his 
cover. 
From Mr Hs perspective I recognise that the potential consequences of him driving without 
insurance were serious, especially given the nature of his occupation. Im in no doubt that 
hed have been upset and worried to learn that his policy had been cancelled without his 
knowledge or agreement.
On the other hand, I recognise that RAC acted quickly to put things right for Mr H. From the 
available information, I can see the policy was incorrectly cancelled at around 10.43 am on 
the day in question. Mr H then contacted RAC at around 3.51 pm later that day to raise his 
concerns, and the cause of the error was discovered and corrected within around 15 
minutes.
I understand that, fortunately, Mr H didnt drive without insurance during the period in 
question in any event. Which means he wasnt caught driving without insurance, so the 
issues he raised about being caught, and the potential consequences, remained 
hypothetical. I note that Mr H believes the outcome for RAC should be more severe. But 
Ive reached this decision in accordance with the powers of this service to resolve individual 
complaints. These powers contrast with those of the industry regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)  which is the body that can punish or fine financial businesses. 
Taking all of this into account, I consider that RACs offer of £125 amounts to fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling on the matter, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman