DRN-3260583
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) failed to refund £50,312.07 he paid to 
scammers posing as a binary options trader.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all the details 
again here. In summary, Mr O was contacted by an unsolicited caller in April 2019 from a 
scam company called Trade Ltd, where they persuaded him to invest in Forex trades. Over 
the space of six months, he was in frequent contact with the scammers and made the 
following payments (not including transaction fees):
Date Merchant Amount
11 April 2019 tradeltd.com £191.88
15 April 2019 tradeltd.com £383.13
15 April 2019 tradeltd.com £383.13
26 April 2019 tradeltd.com £1551.92
08 May 2019 tradeltd.com £1146.76
08 May 2019 tradeltd.com £1337.89
20 May 2019 tradeltd.com £2346.26
20 May 2019 tradeltd.com £1573.03
03 June 2019 tradeltd.com £2384.87
03 June 2019 tradeltd.com £1987.39
17 July 2019 tradeltd.com £2420.29
22 July 2019 tradeltd.com £4007.63
22 July 2019 tradeltd.com £1603.05
13 August 2019 tradeltd.com £4161.74
04 September 2019 tradeltd.com £2090.62
04 September 2019 tradeltd.com £2090.62
17 October 2019 tradeltd.com £2765.64
17 October 2019 tradeltd.com £2765.64
17 October 2019 tradeltd.com £2765.64
17 October 2019 tradeltd.com £2765.64
21 October 2019 tradeltd.com £1557.96
22 October 2019 tradeltd.com £1941.85
22 October 2019 tradeltd.com £1941.85
30 October 2019 tradeltd.com £1171.39
30 October 2019 tradeltd.com £2976.25
Total £50,312.07
Mr O subsequently discovered he had been scammed after Trade Ltd stopped 
corresponding with him and he was unable to withdraw his money, at which point he 
reported his concerns to BOI. A warning was subsequently placed on the Financial Conduct 
Authority website about investing with Trade Ltd, but BOI declined to refund the payments 
Mr O had made, as it said he had authorised them. Unhappy with this decision, Mr O 
referred his complaint to this service, and the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I am satisfied that Trade Ltd were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gainswith initial token pay-outsin order to induce further investments from 
victims such as Mr O In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
a) Prior to January 2018, binary-options dealers were required to be licensed by the 
UKs Gambling Commission  whereas Trade Ltd were not. Nor were they regulated 
in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were 
operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply 
with regulatory requirements. 
b) On 9 January 2020, a warning about Trade Ltd was placed on the FCAs website.
c) There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that Trade Ltd were scammers. This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
But having concluded that this was a scam, its also necessary to consider whether the 
disputed payments were unusual or uncharacteristic enough for Mr Os account such that 
they ought reasonably to have triggered an intervention by BOI.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activityBOI is aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers safeguarding and due-
diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have 
published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the 
relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr O for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by him using the legitimate security credentials provided by BOI.
These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr O was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr O is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider BOI 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as BOI that Mr Os account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger 
alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a 
possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Os case, there was no warning about Trade Ltd on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal or 
the FCA website until after he made all of his payments. So, I do not think BOI ought to have 
automatically blocked payments to it. However, in light of the odd pattern of payments that 
followed, I do think this was a trigger for potential fraud, particularly given that this was also a 
new payee; it was a transaction made in USD, and it was also a payee trading in binary 
options without being registered with the FCA (as required at the time). I appreciate the early transactions were of relatively low value, but, BOI has said itself that the initial payments 
were outside of [Mr Os] normal spending habit. 
So Im satisfied it ought reasonably to have identified the transaction to Trade Ltd as unusual 
and uncharacteristic. Therefore, it would have been reasonable for BOI to have properly 
questioned Mr O before processing all the payments he made to Trade Ltd in order to satisfy 
itself that all was well. The frequency of the payments (and by BOIs own admission, the 
unusual nature of the transactions) should in themselves have alerted the bank to the risk of 
harm and prompted discreet queries from the outset. However, no attempts to contact Mr O 
were made by BOI to question him about the payments he was attempting to make. 
If BOI had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr O and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to suggest he wouldnt have been forthcoming 
about what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect him 
from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the 
payee was registered with UKs Gambling Commission. It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with merchants like Trade Ltd in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options including many warnings of potential 
fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth).
However, there is no evidence that BOI provided Mr O with any meaningful warnings or gave 
him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was therefore a 
missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation
If BOI had asked Mr O what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, I 
consider it likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had 
been done over the phone and online with Trade Ltd. BOI did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr O was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. 
If BOI had questioned Mr O about the payments, it would have likely discovered that he had 
been contacted out of the blue by a merchant offering a high risk investment opportunity, 
who had also asked him to download remote access software while making payments. 
These are common hallmarks of a scam, so I consider there would have been reasonable 
grounds for suspicion here. So, BOI ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in 
light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated 
with unregulated, overseas binary options.
If BOI had given a warning, I believe that Mr O would have paused and looked more closely 
into Trade Ltd before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take high risks 
or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable that he 
would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not Trade Ltd 
was regulated in the UK or abroad. Mr O could have discovered they were not and the 
various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above). In 
other words, I am satisfied that a warning to Mr O from his trusted bank would probably have 
exposed Trade Ltds false pretences, causing him to stop trading and preventing further 
losses.Even if Mr O had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options dealers, which in turn 
would have revealed the truth behind the supposed brokers representations. This would 
probably have stopped Mr O in his tracks. So, but for BOIs failure to act on clear triggers of 
potential fraud or financial harm, Mr O would probably have not lost his money.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in 
the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.
In this case, I do not think that Mr O was to blame for what happened; that he did not foresee 
the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.
I do not think Mr O could have foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was a 
scam and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a simulation. In the 
circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr O 
should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to 
refund all of Mr Os stolen payments totalling £50,312.07 (as well as any transaction/foreign 
currency fees charged on top of these payments). Bank of Ireland should add interest to the 
total sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the 
respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman