DRN-4374262
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) was irresponsible 
to lend to him.
What happened
Mr L was approved for two loans with Tesco between March 2019 and August 2021 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 22 Mar 2019 £12,000 62m £252.96 1 Jun 2024 16 Aug 2021
With loan 2
2 16 Aug 2021 £12,645.46 38m £393.01 1 Nov 2024 N/A
Mr L says that he shouldnt have been approved for either loan due to his financial 
circumstances and that he felt pressurised to come out of his repayment plan. He adds that 
the lending has affected his mental health and he is now in a debt management plan as 
Tesco would not accept his offer of £100 per month.
Tesco says it looked at information held by credit reference agencies and checked the 
information provided by Mr L before approving the lending. It says it was contacted by Mr L 
in September 2022 concerning the cost of living and managing priority bills. Tesco says it 
agreed a repayment plan at £200 per month for three months and that Mr L paid his 
contractual payment in January 2023 before raising his complaint about irresponsible 
lending. It says this indicated Mr Ls ability to make the repayments was affected by a 
change in circumstances rather than irresponsible lending.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied 
that Tescos checks went far enough, but she found that proportionate checks were unlikely 
to have caused Tesco to make a different lending decision.
Mr L requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, as 
outlined on our website. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ls case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Tesco make a fair lending decision?
Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
When Mr L applied for loan 1, Tesco found out the following information about his 
circumstances:
Mr L was single, had one dependant, was living with his parents and was employed 
full time;
The purpose of the loan was to re-finance existing debt;
His declared monthly income was £1,715 with guaranteed overtime at an additional 
£186;
He had no negative information on his credit file aside from one delinquent account;
Credit agencies showed up to £13,076 of unsecured debt, with £431 monthly loan 
repayments;
Based on its calculations, Mr L had £770 of disposable income after the new loan 
repayment.
However, Im not satisfied the checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan term was over five years and Tesco needed to be confident that the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
I cant see that Tesco verified Mr Ls declared income;
Tesco had gathered information from two credit agencies, but used the lower debt 
figure in its analysis;
Mr Ls existing credit commitments, based on the higher figure, were about 23% of 
his declared income. This increased to 37% with the new lending, although I accept 
Mr L said he planned to re-finance existing debt;
Tescos checks showed Mr L had a delinquent account on his credit file.
So Ive had a look at Mr Ls bank accounts as a reasonable proxy for what proportionate 
checks may have found:
These show Mr Ls regular monthly income was £1,715, but he earned at least 
another £500 per month in the lead up to the loan;
The higher credit commitment was the correct one as Mr L had recently taken out a 
new loan;
Mr L appeared to make regular payments of around £400 per month to a family 
member, possibly for his share of rent and bills, and a further £300 per month 
towards a dependant;Combined repayments on two loans were £431;
There was other regular expenditure including the repayment of a friends credit card, 
breakdown cover and mobile phone costs of around £200;
This left Mr L with almost £900 before the new loan repayment and any other expenditure 
on, for example, food and travel. I can also see that Mr L did indeed repay the existing loans, 
using £11,500 of the £12,000, so his expenditure going forward would have been reduced by 
the £431 repayments.
In summary, I find that, even if Tesco had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1, it was 
likely to have concluded the lending was sustainable.
Loan 2
Mr L used £7,645.46 of loan 2 to repay loan 1 and borrowed a further £5,000.
Tescos checks showed:
Mr L was single, had one dependant, was living with his parents and was employed 
full time;
His declared monthly income was £2,200;
He had no negative information on his credit file;
Credit agencies showed up to £25,763 of unsecured debt, with up to £6,005 on credit 
cards and up to £633 of monthly loan repayments;
Based on its calculations, Mr L had £408 of disposable income after the new loan 
repayment.
Again, Im not satisfied the checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan term was over three years and Tesco needed to be confident that the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
I cant see that Tesco verified Mr Ls declared income;
Tesco had gathered information from two credit agencies, but used the lower loan 
repayment figure in its analysis  the numbers differed by almost £400;
Mr Ls existing credit commitments, excluding loan 1 and based on the higher figure, 
were at least 25% of his declared income. This increased to 43% with the new 
lending.
Mr Ls total debt had increased significantly since loan 1, despite having repaid the 
two loans he had at the time.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Ls bank accounts for the period leading up to loan 2 and found:
These show Mr Ls regular monthly income was roughly in line with the £2,200 hed 
declared;
The higher credit commitment was the correct one as I have seen a copy of Mr Ls 
credit file and the relevant repayments on his bank statements;He appeared to make regular payments of around £500 per month to a family 
member, possibly for his share of rent and bills;
Repayments on a loan, two credit cards and a further credit account were at least 
£700 per month;
There was other regular expenditure on car tax and insurance, and a mobile phone, 
totalling under £100;
I couldnt see any expenditure on fuel, but Mr L withdrew about £500 in cash each 
month;
Mr L had taken out £190 in short-term credit from a high-cost lender in the week prior 
to the loan application, some of which remained outstanding;
This left Mr L with over £500 each month after hed made the repayment, from which he 
would need to pay for travel and other regular expenditure. I also note Mr L used some of 
the additional £5,000 to settle the larger of the two credit card balances, reducing his credit 
commitment by at least £100 per month.
On that basis I cant conclude that Tesco was irresponsible to have approved loan 2, but I do 
accept that he is now in financial difficulties and, having seen some of his later bank 
statements, this appears to have become an issue during 2022.
In summary, whilst I do not uphold this complaint, and I havent seen any evidence to show 
Tesco acted unreasonably in any other way, Tesco should respond to Mr Ls financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically and attempt to arrange a mutually agreeable 
repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman