DRN-2118173
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the total loss settlement offered by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited (Admiral) following a theft claim under her motor insurance policy. 
References to Admiral include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs Gs car was unfortunately stolen in January 2020. So, she made a theft claim. Admiral 
later settled the claim as a total loss and offered to pay Mrs G £8,960. It deducted the 
excess from the amount, so £8,810 was due to Mrs G. 
Mrs G didnt think Admirals offer was fair. She provided further information such as 
valuations from online tools. Based on this, Mrs G said Admiral should increase its offer to 
somewhere between £9,554 to £10,222. But Admiral disagreed. It maintained its offer 
represented a fair market value from the time of loss based on the motor trade guides.
Mrs G asked Admiral for a copy of the online valuations it found. She said shed reached a 
different valuation to Admiral when using the same motor trade guide. Mrs G therefore said 
Admiral relied on an incorrect valuation in order to provide her with the market value of her 
car. But Admiral said itd offered a fair settlement and didnt agree to increase this. 
As Mrs G remained unhappy with the settlement offer, she brought the complaint to this 
service for consideration. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She started by carrying out her own 
motor trade guide searches, and said she thought Admirals settlement offer was fair and 
reasonable based on what shed found. She said she couldnt use the motor trade guide Mrs 
G said Admiral had used, as more than three months had passed since the date of loss. But 
in any event, she was of the opinion Admirals offer was within the range of the valuations 
shed found. So, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed. She said the average of the valuations our investigator found was 
significantly higher than the settlement figure offered by Admiral. So, she thought Admiral 
should pay her this amount. She also remained unhappy our investigator hadnt considered 
the discrepancy between the valuation Mrs G reached, to the one given by Admiral when 
using the same motor trade guide. 
Our investigator said even if she included the valuation Mrs G provided, the outcome would 
remain the same in her view. This was because she thought the valuation offered by Admiral 
was within the range of the guides, which is in line with this services approach. 
Mrs G asked why the lowest valuation was considered as she thought it was significantly out 
of line with the others. But our investigator didnt think it was. Mrs G responded to ask for an 
ombudsman to decide the case, and so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigators view for broadly similar reasons. I 
accept this will come to disappoint Mrs G, and so Ill go onto explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the policy says Admiral will decide to either pay to repair or 
replace a policyholders car if its stolen. The policy goes onto say: 
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or 
items claimed for. 
The policy defines market value as: 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on the market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market 
in which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if you 
bought your car privately or at an auction. 
This means Admiral is required to pay a policyholder the amount the car was worth 
immediately prior to the loss. The amount due to Mrs G is based on the market value given it 
was required to pay a cash sum, and this is discussed further below. 
Its important for me to now explain that my role here isnt to provide what I consider to be a 
fair valuation of Mrs Gs car based on the market value at the time of loss. My role is to 
consider whether I think Admiral applied the policy terms when making an offer in a fair and 
reasonable way. Based on all the information available to me, I think it has here. 
This type of complaint is common, and this service has a well-established approach to 
considering these. We start by looking at the motor trade guides available to us. I find these 
guides more persuasive than other methods of valuing cars because the guides are based 
on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. If I find an insurer has offered a 
settlement value thats significantly lower than the range given by the guides, then its likely 
Id uphold the complaint. But, if an insurers settlement is within the range of the valuations 
given by the guides, then its unlikely Id uphold a complaint. 
Admiral carried out its own searches of the motor trade guides and reached a settlement of 
£8,960  minus Mrs Gs excess. Mrs G didnt think this was enough based on her own 
searches of the motor trade guides and thought Admiral should increase it. 
Our investigator was able to produce three valuations but couldnt provide a fourth given 
more than three months had passed between the date of loss and our investigator 
attempting to obtain a further valuation. Im in agreement with this approach as the fourth 
guide wouldnt give us a fair market value reflection given the time thats passed. So, Ive 
turned to the valuations our investigator did find: 
Glasss - £8,960
CAP - £9,048 
Cazana - £9,621 
Mrs G argued the valuation given by Glasss is significantly lower than the other valuations 
and shouldnt be considered. But I dont agree as its within a similar range to the valuation 
given by CAP, so I wont be discounting the Glasss valuation. In fact, if I was considering 
the average of these, the likely valuation Id remove would be the valuation given by Cazana 
as its out of line with the other two by some considerable amount. But I dont need to 
consider this here given Admirals settlement figure is within the range of these. Ive given a lot of thought to the settlement figure given by Admiral and the arguments Mrs G 
has made. And having done so, Im satisfied its within the range of the valuations our 
investigator found when assessing whether Admiral applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy fairly and reasonably. So, I dont think it needs to increase its settlement amount here. 
Ive also considered the discrepancy between the valuation Admiral reached compared to 
the amount Mrs G obtained when using the fourth motor trade guide. Ive gone onto look at 
whether this has had any impact on the outcome of this complaint. But, as above, Im 
satisfied Admirals offer is within the range of the valuations obtained by the motor trade 
guides. So, I dont require Admiral to do anything further as part of this complaint. 
I appreciate this will come to disappoint Mrs G. But my decision ends what we  in trying to 
resolve her dispute with Admiral  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman