DRN-2532201
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). His complaint relates to 
the handling of a claim under his buildings insurance policy in respect of damage to his 
property in a fire.
 
Mr R had two claims, one for contents and one for buildings. The contents element of his 
claim and complaint has been considered separately by this service, so here Ive therefore 
only considered the buildings element of his complaint.
What happened
In November 2019 there was a fire at Mr Rs home. This caused significant damage to the 
property and Mr R and his family moved into alternative accommodation under the terms of 
their home insurance policy. Mr R made a claim for the damage to his home. RSA 
considered the claim and in March 2020 made Mr R a settlement offer in respect of the 
rebuilding work to his home, based on estimates provided by their contractors, of 
approximately £25,900.
Mr R was unhappy at the settlement offered: having obtained a separate estimate from his 
own contractor of approximately £27,000 he maintained that he was faced with a financial 
loss of £1,100. Mr R was also unhappy at the way that his claim was handled by RSA and 
subsequently complained to RSA in April 2020. RSA were unable to identify the specific 
concerns of Mr Rs complaint, but reviewed the case notes, reports and other information as 
part of a full review of his claim. Based on this review they did not uphold his complaint. 
Despite being unhappy at this outcome, Mr R accepted the RSA offer in May 2020 as he felt 
that he had no alternative.
When Mr R accepted the cash settlement offer for the building works to his property, RSA 
extended the rental of his alternative accommodation for a further period to August 2020, 
which covered the estimated six week period for the completion of the building works and for 
Mr R and his family to move back into their home. In extending the rental period RSA made 
it clear that they would not pay for any further period of alternative accommodation beyond 
August 2020.
As he was unhappy at the outcome of his complaint to RSA, Mr R complained to this service 
in May 2020. The principal element of his complaint was about the cash settlement offered 
by RSA and the financial loss that he maintains he suffered as a result. Mr R also raised 
specific issues concerning: the alternative accommodation; wiring of his property; additional 
travel expenses; repair of the stairs in his property; the handling of his claim by RSA; and 
time lost by Mr R in meeting agents and others connected with the building works at his 
property.
 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They concluded that RSA had 
handled Mr Rs claim and complaint fairly, and they would not be asking RSA to do 
anything more. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr R. 
Regarding Mr Rs main element of complaint, that he lost out financially from the cash 
settlement made by RSA, Ive considered the evidence available. Ive looked at the relevant 
policy terms and conditions and note that they state:
How we settle claims for buildings:
The amount we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of (my 
emphasis):
The cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor or
The cost of work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from your 
nominated contractors
In this case, the first of these two options was the £25,900 offered by RSA, while the second 
option was the £27,100 estimate obtained by Mr R. It is reasonable for RSA to limit the cost 
to the first figure, and this is explicitly what the policy terms and conditions provide for. Ive 
therefore concluded they RSA acted fairly and reasonably in making the cash settlement 
offer that they did.
Regarding the alternative accommodation provided to Mr R and his family, Mr R complained 
that (subsequent to his initial complaint to this service in May 2020) he was told by RSA in 
July 2020 that they would not pay for his alternative accommodation beyond August 2020. 
Mr R stated that he needed another month in the alternative accommodation until the 
building work at his home was complete. 
Ive looked at the sequence of events and the evidence available on this point. I note that Mr 
R was provided with alternative accommodation from the date of the incident and during the 
time that his claim was being considered through to his acceptance of the cash settlement 
offer in May 2020. At that point I can see that RSA extended the period for which they would 
pay for the alternative accommodation through to August 2020. This was on the basis that 
the building works were estimated to take some six weeks to complete, and therefore an 
extension to August 2020 was a reasonable period. I agree that it was reasonable, as there 
were 14 weeks from the date of Mr R accepting the cash settlement offer to the date that 
RSA agreed to pay for the alternative accommodation. I also note that RSA made it clear to 
Mr R in May 2020 when extending the alternative accommodation that they would not pay 
for it after August 2020, so I consider that Mr R had a fair amount of notice.
Ive considered a point about Mr R having private work of his own carried out that wasnt part 
of the building work to be covered under his policy. Ive noted RSAs point that the contractor 
could not accommodate it within the schedule of building work covered under the policy, due 
to overall demand for work during the period (being affected by the Covid Pandemic and associated restrictions). Ive also noted that under the terms of the policy there is no 
obligation on RSA to carry out work outside of that covered under the policy, unless they 
agree to do so, and to a limited degree. I think this is reasonable.
Regarding the issue of wiring of his property, Mr R advised RSA in December 2019 that he 
wished to use his own electrician to do the work. RSA asked for an estimate and for an 
electrical test certificate. Mr R only provided an estimate, so RSA then arranged for an 
inspection to provide the certificate. Ive looked at the report from this inspection, and it 
indicates that the work needed to rectify the wiring was not a result of the fire, but because of 
pre-existing issues. On this basis I think its reasonable for RSA to have declined to pay for 
the work.
Regarding additional travel expenses, because of the location of the alternative 
accommodation in relation to Mr Rs home and the schools attended by his children, he said 
that he would be incurring extra costs of his children getting to and from school. RSA 
considered this, and while the terms of Mr Rs policy did not oblige RSA to pay for these 
additional costs, they did agree in March 2020 to pay £20 per week for the six-month period 
November 2019 to May 2020 and made payment of this sum in March 2020. Ive noted that 
RSA offered to reimburse Mr R for any additional costs he could demonstrate. Ive also 
noted that they didnt ask for any sums back because of schools being closed during this 
time due to Covid restrictions. I think this is a reasonable approach to have taken.
On the point about repairs to the stairs in Mr Rs property, Mr R was concerned that two 
broken stairs werent included in the schedule of building work to be carried out. RSA have 
said that there was a mistake in the estimate provided by their contractor, which has been 
corrected and Ive seen the revised quotation provided to Mr R in August 2020. It does 
include the stairs, so Ive concluded that this issue has been dealt with fairly.
Mr R also complained to RSA about the handling of his claim by RSA, specifically relating to 
the service provided by RSA during a call with one of their advisors. Complaint handling by 
businesses lies outside the remit of this service, unless it is relevant to the elements of 
complaint that lie within our jurisdiction. However, Ive noted that RSA have considered this 
aspect and compensated Mr R with £50, and I think thats reasonable.
Mr Rs final issue relates to time lost, and he asked for consideration to be given to 
compensating him for the time he has spent providing access for agents and others. This is 
not something that insurers would cover, and the policy terms and conditions provide no 
basis for them to do so. I dont think its unreasonable for consumers to have to spend time 
in pursuing a claim, meeting agents, contractors and others. So I dont think RSA have done 
anything wrong here.
For these reasons I believe RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has 
handled Mr Rs buildings claim, and that RSA do not need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman