DRN-3574854
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) overpaid income from his personal 
pension (PP) drawdown plan and that it hasnt shown it has put right this error. 
What happened
There are a number of dates involved and, as the events are well known to both parties,        
I only intend to set out those that I think are key to reaching my decision. 
Mr C held a PP drawdown plan, which moved to ReAssure from another provider in 
September 2020. Mr Cs plan is made up of five sub-accounts invested in the same fund, 
each set up to pay him a monthly income of £138. But, at the end of September 2020, 
ReAssure incorrectly paid £781.25 from each to Mr C instead. 
Mr C returned this to ReAssure shortly after and complained about the error and resulting 
tax implications. On 15 October 2020, ReAssure re-paid Mr C the correct amount of income 
he should have received from each sub-account. And, in early November 2020, it sent Mr C 
its final response letter, saying it had taken action to put right the income overpayment error 
going forwards, it apologised and offered Mr C £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him. 
On 11 December 2020, ReAssure sent Mr C a further final response letter with new referral 
rights to our Service, saying the income overpayment would be removed from its records for 
tax purposes. And it offered him a further £200 compensation for the impact of its error.
In early January 2021, after Mr C asked for evidence ReAssure had put right the income 
overpayment error, it sent him information for one sub-account showing the number of units 
he held in it after the error, which also said the units incorrectly sold had been returned and 
his plan is now in the right position. 
 
In March 2021, after Mr C received a lower monthly income than expected, ReAssure wrote 
to him saying this would be corrected before his P60 was issued. And, on 4 June 2021, Mr C 
brought his complaint to our Service, unhappy he was yet to receive proof the returned funds 
had been reinvested in his plan. And because he wanted his tax records to show the correct 
level of income hed received. 
In mid-June 2021, ReAssure re-issued Mr Cs P60 as it had previously included the income 
hed been overpaid in error. It said that while this had been reversed and the units reapplied 
to his plan, it had been missed off its accounting system. 
One of our Investigators asked ReAssure to provide Mr C with evidence of the units 
currently held in each sub-account and at inception, along with withdrawals and additions in 
between. In November 2021, ReAssure sent Mr C a statement showing the units held in one 
of his sub-accounts. And, in December 2021, it sent Mr C the current transfer value of each 
sub-account, but without details of the units held. Mr C says that, in January 2022, he asked 
ReAssure for the unit history twice and it failed to call him back with this.
 
So our Investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He said ReAssures error in reporting the 
correct level of income paid for tax purposes has been resolved. But ReAssure hadnt shown 
it had put right the income overpayment error on Mr Cs plan, as it hadnt evidenced he had 
the same number of units invested in it as he would have otherwise had. And that most of 
the information provided only relates to one sub-account. He also said ReAssure should pay 
Mr C £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him its errors and in trying to get 
information from it. 
ReAssure didnt agree. It said Mr C hasnt been financially disadvantaged by its errors, as 
his investment has been reapplied using the relevant dates. It provided further information, 
but Mr C didnt feel this showed it had put right the income overpayment error, particularly as 
it still didnt cover all five of his sub-accounts. 
So Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me for a decision. I let Mr C and ReAssure know    
I understood the tax reporting issue had been resolved, so Id to focus on the income 
overpayment error. I said ReAssure sent us its calculations for one of Mr Cs sub-accounts. 
And, when considering this alongside the available information, I thought it showed that: 
Prior to ReAssures error in September 2020 Mr C held 140.8 units in this 
sub-account;
As of the start of November 2020, after the error, he had 129.1722 units in it  a 
difference of 11.6278 units;
ReAssure needed to take into account that between these dates hed correctly been 
paid his regular income of £138 on or around 28 October 2020, costing 1.73570 
units. Allowing for this left 9.8921 units to be restored to his policy;
ReAssure said it needed to deduct 1.7065 units for the £138 it ought to have 
correctly paid Mr C at the end of September 2020.
I said ReAssures also sent us system evidence which I think shows it restored 9.8921 units 
to each of Mr Cs five sub-accounts with effect from early November 2020. So I intended to 
say the evidence showed it had rectified the income overpayment error by returning the units 
it shouldnt have sold to Mr Cs plan. 
And that ReAssure should pay Mr C a further £250 compensation to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him by this matter, taking total compensation to £500. I said     
I thought this amount was a fair reflection of the frustration and inconvenience Mr Cs 
experienced during the lengthy period of time ReAssures taken to show it had put right its 
errors, as well as the confusion caused to him as a result of its unclear correspondence. 
In response, ReAssure agreed to pay Mr C a further £250 compensation. And, while Mr C 
said he could now be reasonably sure ReAssure has corrected its income overpayment 
error, he spent a lot of time chasing it. And that if he were to charge for his time then £500 
compensation wouldnt cover this, along with the worry and frustration caused to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that ReAssure made an error when it paid Mr C his monthly income 
drawdown payments in September 2020. And, while it has taken numerous requests and 
time for ReAssure to provide the information weve requested to fairly decide this complaint, 
for the reasons given above Im satisfied it has rectified this error. And Mr C accepts this is 
the case. So, whats left for me to decide is the amount of compensation I think ReAssure 
should pay Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by this.  
Having carefully considered this, the service ReAssures provided has been below the 
standard Id reasonably expect. I think Mr C would have been concerned to find out 
ReAssure made the income overpayment error in the first place. It sent Mr C letters which 
didnt provide clear information for him to know whether or not it had put this right. ReAssure 
continued to do so even after our Investigator explained what it needed to provide, causing 
Mr C confusion and frustration. It also took time to put right the tax implications, with Mr C 
having to re-approach it about this. And ReAssure could have provided Mr C with better 
customer service by calling him back when it said it would. 
That being said, ReAssure recognised at the outset that it had made an error and apologised 
to Mr C. So it was never in dispute that it needed to put this right, but rather a matter of 
evidencing it had since done so, I think that wouldve lessened the worry caused to Mr C as 
a result. I also note theres nothing to suggest Mr C needed access to the funds in question 
during this time, so I dont think hes been caused worry or inconvenience in that respect. 
And, while I think the service and information ReAssure provided Mr C with could have been 
better, I dont think this has caused him considerable distress, upset and worry and/or 
significant inconvenience to cause me to make a higher award.  
So, I think ReAssure should pay Mr C a further £250 compensation, taking total 
compensation to £500. For the reasons given, I think this a fair and reasonable amount to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C in the circumstances. So, Im 
not asking it to do any more than this.
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay Mr C an additional £250 compensation, taking total compensation to 
£500.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is ReAssure Limited is required to pay Mr C 
£500 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman