DRN-4149666
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt contact him when they blocked his account.
What happened
A transaction on Mr Bs credit card was flagged as a potential scam transaction on 28 
September 2022 at around 5:45pm, which blocked his account. Mr B says that he heard 
nothing from Sainsburys about this, so he used a third party provider to make the same 
transaction, who also stopped the transaction from completing, but they text him and the 
transaction went through within 10 minutes. 
Mr B says he received an automated call from Sainsburys the following day, which asked 
him to hold and talk to an agent. Mr B says he held for 10 minutes and when he spoke to 
someone she said she couldnt deal with it, and she had to refer to the fraud team. Mr B 
says he had another long hold and the call handler said there was no answer, and they 
would call back, but they didnt do this so he rang Sainsburys back. This time he was able to 
confirm the transaction was genuine and the block was removed. Mr B made a complaint to 
Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys upheld Mr Bs complaint. They said that they compensated Mr B £25 due to the 
service he received. They said when a call back was requested, the team were unable to 
confirm if a call would be made the same day. Due to the inconvenience, they credited Mr 
Bs account with a further £25. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said Sainsburys should pay Mr B a further £50 
as he thought a call back should happen on the same day. While he noted that the account 
was unblocked on the first working day, this was only due to Mr B calling Sainsburys back 
before their closing hours. So our investigator said Mr B was without the use of his card 
during that period, and it was only for his actions that the card was unblocked that day.
Sainsburys asked for an Ombudsman to review Mr Bs complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said their fraud team do not have set timeframes to remove fraud 
blocks, and once an investigation is completed their fraud team will contact a customer with 
the outcome. They said Mr B called them on 29 September and the call handler attempted to 
transfer him, however the lines were busy and for this reason they paid him £25 
compensation. Sainsburys said that Mr B was given the opportunity to hold and speak to 
their fraud team, but he chose to request a call back. They said he was not informed when 
this would be, and it was made clear the block would remain until the fraud team removed it 
and this was known to Mr B when he chose to request the call back.
Sainsburys also said that no new transactions took place on 29 September, and it was only 
two transactions from 28 September that were processed, therefore he did not use the card 
immediately after the block was removed, which suggested the removal was not urgently 
required in the first place.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr B that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Sainsburys to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them being victims of scams. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Sainsburys have confirmed that their process is to contact a customer when they have 
completed their investigation. So as they needed to complete an investigation, this explains 
why there can be differing times as to when an investigation is completed. Sainsburys have 
also said that their complex fraud team opening hours are 9am-5pm Monday-Friday. So as 
the block happened around 5:45pm, this is why Mr B is likely to have heard nothing until the 
following morning. I understand that the same circumstances were resolved within 10 
minutes with another third party provider he used, but they are likely to have different 
procedures to Sainsburys, and in this instance as Sainsburys have confirmed to our service 
that they do not send a customer a text or attempt to ring them when the block is applied (as 
they would complete their investigation first). 
Sainsburys contacted Mr B the following morning via an automated call. So Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys did make the first contact with Mr B. Listening to this call I can hear that he told 
the call handler he had been on hold for ten minutes before being connected to her. The call 
handler says the account is with the specialist team and she attempts to transfer Mr B to 
them. After 3.5 minutes on hold she says they are experiencing a high volume of calls and 
she asks if she can request a call back. Mr B asks when he can expect the call back and the 
call handler says Im not too sure, (be)cause I havent got a timeframe of when they will call 
you and hopefully they can give you a call back as soon as they can. The call handler 
says I could err carry on holding if thats what you wish, but Mr B confirms he has a visitor 
due now so he asks for a call back as soon as they can. The call handler makes it clear the 
block would remain on the account until he manages to speak to the specialist team.
Mr B then calls Sainsburys around 3:30-4pm as he hadnt had a call back. The call handler 
transfers him to someone who can remove the block and the block was removed. Its difficult 
to determine when Mr B would have received a call back  if at all from Sainsburys that day 
as the department he needed to speak to closed at 5pm and Mr B rang Sainsburys around 
3:30-4pm on 29 September 2022. While the original call handler in the morning didnt specify 
a time for a call back, it would be reasonable to assume this would be on the same day 
given the call with Mr B was early morning.  
Ive considered the impact of what happened to Mr B. While I cant say there was an error 
with Sainsburys initially blocking his card or not ringing him before they completed their 
investigation, I do think that there was an expectation he would receive a call back from 
Sainsburys. And while he may have received a call back that day if he hadnt rung them 
when he did, its probable that he wouldnt have done, given that he hadnt had a call back 6-
7 hours after his earlier call that day. In terms of Mr Bs card being blocked, he was able to 
make the same transaction with a different company and Sainsburys have confirmed that he 
didnt use his card again on 29 September 2022, even when the block had been removed. 
So Im not persuaded that the block on his card had a significant impact on him, otherwise I 
would have expected to see transactions attempted shortly after the block had been removed, although Im persuaded it would have been frustrating for him.
Sainsburys have credited a total of £50 to Mr Bs account for what happened here. Im 
satisfied that this is fair. I say this because from start to finish, the process took less than 24 
hours to be resolved. Sainsburys did call Mr B and he didnt need to take the first step. And 
although the call handler he spoke to couldnt connect him to the correct team within 3.5 
minutes of him being on hold when trying to transfer him, she did offer to stay on hold for 
him. So if Mr B was able to do this, then it appears the situation could have been resolved 
several hours earlier. But as Mr B didnt do this, he expected a call back. Its possible Mr B 
would have received a call back that day, but Im persuaded it would be unlikely given that 
the department he needed to speak to closed roughly 40 minutes after the block was 
removed from his account.
So I am persuaded that Mr B was inconvenienced by having to ring Sainsburys back when 
he hadnt received a call back from them, despite waiting 6-7 hours for one. While no time 
was given for a call back, the call handler did say hopefully they can give you a call back as 
soon as they can and therefore I would expect this to be on the same day, given that Mr Bs 
account was blocked the previous day. Or if the call wouldnt be on the same day then I 
would expect the call handler to let Mr B know this might be a possibility, given his clear 
feelings he expressed to the call handler about what had happened. The £50 that 
Sainsburys credited to Mr Bs account is in line with our guidelines for what happened here. 
So it follows I dont intend to ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr B said he was disappointed the provisional decision went the way it did. 
Sainsburys did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information about the merits of this 
complaint to consider, then my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman