DRN-3735001
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information Morses has given us here is a brief table of the loans Morses approved for
her.
Loan Amount 
borrowedStart Date End Date Repayment 
Amount 
weeklyLoan 
Term 
WeeksLive 
weeks
1 £400.00 26/08/2017 08/03/2018 £20.00 33 28
2 £600.00 08/03/2018 20/10/2018 £30.00 33 32
3 £850.00 20/10/2018 02/12/2019 £29.75 52 59
4 £850.00 02/12/2019 08/04/2021 £29.75 53 70
Morses issued its non-uphold final response letter after Mrs B complained. Her complaint 
was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that none of the loans ought to 
have been approved for her.
Morses disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
After I had reviewed it I asked Mrs B to send to us some additional supporting financial
documents so that I could review her financial position in detail for the lending period. 
Nothing was able to be sent to us and her representative has explained as follows: she is 
so sorry, but she is not able to obtain the information you have requested. She is not of 
much use and she doesn't have online banking. She is not great with that kind of stuff.
On 4 October 2022, I decided to issue a provisional decision in which I gave reasons, on the 
evidence I had at the time, as to why I felt that Morses had not lent irresponsibly. 
That provisional decision is set out in full here (in smaller type to differentiate it from this 
decision).
My provisional decision dated 4 October 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, 
short-term and home credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs B could afford to pay back the amounts shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Bs income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include:
oMrs B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
oThe amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
oMrs B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
oMrs B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs B.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether 
she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money to make the 
repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs B was able to repay her loans sustainably. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and, 
made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make 
them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments 
are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.
I am planning not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I realise she will find that disappointing but I do 
not think that there is enough information on what Morses had at the time to actively refuse her loan 
applications. 
I appreciate that the credit search results which Morses obtained before her first application showed 
that she had a default and some delinquent accounts, but also showed that her overall indebtedness 
was relatively light. 
Here is a summary of some of the criteria: 
Total balances on active accounts exc mortgages £3,075
Total balances on active accounts exc mortgages and home shopping £802
And another part showed me that Mrs Bs total monthly payments on all accounts excluding 
mortgages - which were active at the time the credit results were issued was £21. This is a low sum.
Morses has sent to me details of the income and expenditure information (I&E) it obtained from Mrs B. 
For the earlier loans I think that it was reasonable and proportionate for the 33 week term loans for 
£400 and £600 for Morses to rely on the information she gave it. Plus, as I have already outlined, it 
had carried out the credit search.By loan 3, Mrs B had repaid her first loan early and had repaid loan 2 on time. The loans had not 
overlapped and Loan 3 was not going to overlap either. I have not been provided with any detailed 
repayment records.
The third loan was for a larger sum of £850 and for a longer term, and I think that additional checks 
ought to have been carried out at that stage. Morses has said it did additional checks for loan 4 but 
has not told us what. It has explained that it utilised national statistics for her expenditure including 
rent, council tax, utilities, insurance, transport, her media costs, and childcare. But looking at the excel 
spreadsheet for Mrs Bs I&E assessment I cant see that it did that.
For loan 3 I have noted that Morses had added she had additional loan expenditure with another 
creditor of £20 a week and for loan 4 it was £15 a week.
It did not do any further credit searches as the loan requests were made over the months.
But, even if I considered that additional checks ought to have been carried out for loans 3 and 4, 
without any information from Mrs B to demonstrate to me what Morses may have seen if it had carried 
out the further detailed search into her financial situation, then I cant conclude that Morses was more 
likely to have refused the loan applications. Or that Morses ought not to have lent to her or that she 
could not afford it.
On the current evidence I plan not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Both parties were given time to respond. Mrs B is professionally represented.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses has not responded to my provisional decision.
Mrs Bs representative sent to us some screenshots of some bank transactions for a few 
months in 2019, and it informed us of some new information which was that Mrs B had 
been in a debt management plan (DMP) for around two years with debts 
totalling around £6,000.
However, no details were sent, no dates about the DMP and so I invited Mrs Bs 
representative to send me additional information so that I knew to which period the 
information related and more details on the DMP. I explained that I was not content with brief 
information and unidentified screenshots. I suggested that a credit file could be sent too.
Mrs Bs representative has said that Mrs B does not wish to send anymore and has asked 
that the complaint is resolved. So I have reviewed the information I have.
For completeness and to be fair to both parties I asked Morses to explain what it knew about 
the DMP but it said it had no knowledge. 
Having reviewed the complaint with the screenshots and the information sent to me I have 
concluded that my decision is the same as my provisional decision. 
And I say that because: 
othe screenshots from Mrs B are incomplete as they have no details in relation to the 
account name and number. And they are for a period in April 2019 and again in 
August 2019 and so they are not chronological, or complete.othe screenshots show a couple payments to a well-known debt advice charity in 
April 2019 and one in August 2019 and no others. And so, these may, or may not 
have been for a DMP, and if they were these are not evidence of regular payments. 
When I asked for more details on the DMP none has been sent to me. 
Mrs Bs new evidence has not persuaded me that my provisional decision ought to be 
altered and so for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman