DRN-3798704
The complaint
Ms H complains that Fountain Finances Limited has used her personal information to 
progress a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Ms H is represented by Mr S but for ease of reading I will only refer to Ms H in my decision.
What happened
Ms H said she received compensation for a mis-sold PPI claim that she said shed never 
made. She complained to the Legal Ombudsman Service about the business whod asked 
her to pay their fee for the successful claim. Ms H said she found that Fountain Finance had 
used her details, she said without her permission to progress the claim to this business. 
Ms H complained to Fountain Finance and asked them to provide the personal details they 
held about her. But they havent done this. She said this was in breach of their privacy policy 
and didnt comply with the Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) Sourcebook.
Fountain Finance said they didnt hold Miss Hs personal details as the online portal only 
directed consumers to the other business website, so any data would be kept on their 
systems. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Fountain Finances response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Fountain Finance had acted as a lead generator and in so doing 
had complied with CMCOB. The activities of the business Ms H was directed to had been 
subject to a decision by another ombudsman service so she couldnt comment further on this 
part of Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. I know this will be a disappointment, so 
Ill explain why.
Several of Ms Hs complaint points relate to the activities and use of her personal information 
by the business that Fountain Finance had a marketing agreement with. As these complaint 
points have been considered by another ombudsman service, I wont comment further on 
them.
In reaching my decision Ive only considered the actions and activities of Fountain Finance. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to consider, relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice.
In this case CMCOB applies to a business thats carrying out regulated claims management 
activities and ancillary activities. I can see that Fountain Finance are regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and have claims management permission for:
Seeking out, referrals and identification of claims or potential claims (personal injury claim; 
financial services or financial product claim; housing disrepair claim; claim for a specified 
benefit; criminal injury claim; employment related claim)
Its not in dispute that Fountain Finance didnt handle Ms Hs mis-sold PPI claim but 
theyd passed her details onto the business that did.
CMCOB 2.2 provides guidance on Generating, obtaining and passing on leads. This 
explains that:
An individual who is contacted by a lead generator, or whose details are obtained by a lead 
generator and passed on to another firm, is, therefore, a customer of both the lead 
generator and, where relevant, that other firm.
Much of the guidance relates to the actions and requirements of that other firm in how they 
obtain and handle the information and data from the lead generator. As Im not considering 
the other firm I wont comment on this. In reaching my decision Ive considered whether 
Fountain Finance have complied with the guidance in their role as a lead generator. Ive 
considered CMCOB 2.2.8 - Provision of information by lead generators.
CMCOB 2.2.8(2) says:
The firm must, in its financial promotions and in any communication with the customer, 
include a prominent statement to the effect that the firm receives payments from third parties 
to whom it passes customers, or the details of customers or of claims, or whose details it 
passes to customers, in respect of doing so.
CMCOB 2.2.8 (3)(a) says the lead generator should explain:
 the customer is not required to use the services of a firm which carries on regulated claims 
management activity to pursue their claim and it is possible for the customer to present 
the claim themselves for free, either to the person against whom they wish to complain or to 
the relevant statutory ombudsman or statutory compensation scheme.
Ive considered the online information thats been provided from Fountain Finances website, 
this says:
Fountain Finances introduces matters to xxxxxxxx and receives payment as part of an 
ongoing marketing agreement
So, Im satisfied this complies with CMCOB 2.2.8(2).
And says:
You do not need to use a Claims Management Company to make your complaint to your 
lender or other Compensation Scheme such as the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS), and if your complaint is not successful, you can refer it to the Financial 
Ombudsman service (FoS) yourself for freeSo, Im satisfied this complies with CMCOB 2.2.8 (3)(a).
I understand Ms H has asked for all the data held about her from Fountain Finance. Theyve 
said that through the online journey Ms H would have been directed to the other firm and 
their website. I can see from the evidence bundle provided by Ms H that all the forms and 
documents are headed with the other business  details so Ive no reason to doubt this. And 
CMCOB 2.2.3 (3) places the onus on the receiving business to satisfy itself that the lead 
generator has appropriate systems and processes in place including the acquisition, 
storage and sharing of that data and whether there is consent to use it in the firms intended 
marketing. Again, as Im not considering the other firm I wont comment further on this.
Ive also considered CMCOB Schedule 1 that provides the record-keeping requirements for 
a claims management company, but again this details the requirements of the business that 
accepted the lead rather than the lead generator. 
So Im satisfied that Fountain Finance has complied with CMCOB as a lead generator. So, I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Ms H has referred to Fountain Finances privacy notice, but I think such complaints arent for 
this service to consider but for the information Commissioners Office. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman