DRN-2956949
The complaint
Miss D complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave incorrect advice which damaged her car 
when attending under her roadside assistance policy.
Other companies are involved in this complaint, but as UKI are responsible for it Ive just 
referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In April 2021 Miss Ds car broke down, and she called UKI to come out and fix it. Her coolant 
was topped up, and she was told it was fine to drive the car. It broke down a second time 
shortly afterwards, so she called UKI again who took her car back to her home address. 
Later on, Miss D took her car to a garage. Miss D says the garage told her the head gasket 
was damaged as a result of driving the car after the second breakdown. So, she complained 
to UKI asking them to pay for her costs in repairing the damage to her car.
UKI said theyd discussed things with the garage who looked at Miss Ds car. They said 
theyd been told the garage didnt say the head gasket was definitely caused following the 
second breakdown but had said the car shouldnt have been driven following it. UKI said the 
opinion of their senior engineer was that the head gasket had almost certainly blown out 
before the first breakdown. Because of that, they werent going to pay for the damage 
caused. But they did think they shouldnt have told Miss D to drive the car after the first 
breakdown which, although it didnt cause the damage, did cause inconvenience. They 
offered £100 compensation for this.
Unhappy with this Miss D asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, he felt 
that after the second breakdown it was clear there was damage to the head gasket and 
thinks if that damage was present after the first breakdown itd have been mentioned on that 
report. But no damage was mentioned on the report. So, although he couldnt say for certain 
when the damage happened, he felt the damage was more likely caused by driving after the 
first breakdown. He suggested UKI pay for the cost of repairs, 8% interest on that payment 
as Miss D had already paid the bill and pay the £100 compensation offered.
Miss D accepted this outcome, but UKI didnt. Ive summarised their argument as follows:
Enough weight hadnt been placed on the conversation their senior engineer had with 
the garage who said they didnt say the damage was caused as a result of incorrect 
advice to drive the car after the first breakdown.
When the technician went out the car had cooled down, Miss D says the reservoir 
cap was turned and engine coolant came out. The technician topped up the coolant 
with water which would have cooled the engine. So, while he was on scene there 
were no signs of a head gasket fault, and you cant diagnose something without 
symptoms. A head gasket fault can take a while to show symptoms or be instant.
UKI said because there was an engine light on it was more likely the damage 
happened before the first breakdown.
Our investigator listened to the call between the garage and UKIs senior engineer and felt 
itd been slightly misrepresented by UKI. He found that neither person could categorically 
say exactly when the damage happened  but both accepted it shouldnt have been driven 
after the first breakdown. And in relation to the comments about when the technician went 
out he said Miss Ds garage saw immediately the head gasket fault  but this wasnt clear at 
the time of recovery. So, that means its more likely than not to have happened after the first 
breakdown  when Miss D shouldnt have been advised to drive her car by UKIs agent.
As UKI didnt accept this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be upholding this complaint.
I accept that an engine light coming on as UKI have said could indicate the head gasket 
damage had already happened. But the garage has explicitly said having done a head 
gasket test they knew instantly itd failed.
The cost of repair is £879.13, and the list of repair items suggest this was a fairly substantial 
repair that was needed for the issues that the garage found. With that in mind, I think its 
likely if the damage had already happened on the first breakdown then it would have been 
noted by the technician in one way or another. And I note the technician who attended the 
first time has been clear in saying there was no evidence of a head gasket problem.
Where the evidence is incomplete, as it is here, then I have to decide what I think is more 
likely than not taking into account all the evidence I do have.
The evidence I have suggests there were no obvious and significant head gasket issues on 
the first breakdown but were after the second breakdown.
UKI have accepted they shouldnt have allowed Miss D to drive away after the first 
breakdown  so its fair and reasonable to expect them to pay for any damage caused as a 
result of that incorrect advice.
If Miss D has paid the garages bill, then its right shes given 8% interest on that as well for 
not having access to this money. And I think £100 compensation offered by UKI for the 
inconvenience she suffered as a result of the second breakdown is fair.
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Pay the total of £897.13 to either the garage (if the bill hasnt been paid) or to Miss D 
directly
Pay 8%* interest on this amount from the date Miss D paid the garage (if applicable) 
to the date of settlement
Pay Miss D £100 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UKI to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. UKI must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if she 
asks them for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman