DRN-3436151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance through their bank account. This is underwritten by 
Aviva.
On 10 May 2021, Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad with a return ticket booked for 28 June 
2021. On 7 June 2021 Mrs L contacted Aviva as Mr L had become unwell and the doctor 
had advised he would need surgery. Mrs L informed Aviva that they had amended their 
return flight to come back on 10 June 2021 but now didnt think they would be able to travel. 
Aviva declined the claim as it said that Mr and Mrs Ls trip had been for longer than the 31-
day maximum trip duration allowed under the policy. Mr and Mrs L returned to the UK on 
their amended flight on 10 June 2021.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs L complained to Aviva. They said that they always 
intended to come home earlier than the originally booked flight date and had been told by 
their travel agent they could amend it. Aviva argued that Mr and Mrs L altered the return 
flight date after Mr L started to feel unwell and so it said it was likely that, if this hadnt 
happened, they would have stayed abroad for longer than the maximum trip duration.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter 
and felt that Aviva should reconsider the claim. Although the original booked trip did exceed 
the maximum duration allowed by the policy, as the incident causing the claim had occurred 
within the first 31 days of the trip, she found that Aviva hadnt been disadvantaged.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy held by Mr and Mrs L includes terms and conditions relating to the cover 
provided. Under the title Period of Insurance the policy states:
Cover under all other sections begins when the insured person leaves home to start 
the trip and ends upon returning home providing that your trip does not exceed the 
trip limit of 31 days, unless youve purchased the extended trip duration upgrade 
(theres no cover for any part of any trip which is longer than the trip limit)
Within the policy there is a list of general conditions and exclusions that apply to all sections 
of cover.  Within the list of general exclusions, it states that cover wont apply for:
Any claim for any part of any trip where the trip duration is longer than the 31 days, 
unless you have purchased the trip extension cover upgrade
Has the claim been declined fairly?
There is no dispute that the trip Mr and Mrs L booked was for longer than the 31-day 
maximum trip duration on the policy. As detailed above, the policy doesnt provide cover for 
claims where a trip duration is longer than this period, unless an extension upgrade is 
purchased. Mr and Mrs L didnt purchase an upgrade and so, based on a strict interpretation 
of the terms of the policy, there is no cover for any incidents that occurred during this trip.
However, having carefully considered the situation, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to decline this claim on that basis. Ill explain why.
Mrs L contacted Aviva on 7 June 2021 and said her husband had been feeling unwell for a 
few days before this. He sought medical attention on 6 June 2021, and it was at this point he 
was informed he needed surgery. Based on this information, it is clear that the incident 
which gave rise to the claim - Mr Ls medical condition - did occur within the maximum trip 
duration. So, Im not persuaded that Aviva was disadvantaged by the fact that the original 
booked trip was longer than 31 days, for which Mr and Mrs L didnt purchase an upgrade, as 
the incident occurred within the timeframe that it would normally provide cover. And I dont 
think it would be reasonable to exclude the claim based on a breach of such a policy 
condition when the cause of the claim isnt connected to that policy condition  in this case 
the maximum trip duration. 
Im aware that Aviva has referred to several other complaints brought to this service with 
similar circumstances which it says reached different conclusions. I have considered that 
evidence, but it hasnt persuaded me to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Thats 
because my decision is based on the individual circumstances of this case, and in light of 
their circumstances, and the other evidence relevant to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, Im not 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to reject their claim on this basis. 
Putting things right
Aviva needs to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls claim for medical expenses and related costs in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of their travel insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman