DRN-3810790
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank closed his credit 
card account.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can understand why Mr W was upset to learn that his credit card account 
had been closed, and why he would like Tesco to reinstate it. But Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator in that Tesco doesnt need to reinstate Mr Ws account. I know 
Mr W will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Mr W hasnt disputed that Tesco was entitled to make a commercial decision to contact 
customers - who hadnt used their credit card in the previous 12 months, to let them know if 
the card wasnt used the account would be closed. Mr W also hasnt disputed that his 
account fell into this category as he hadnt used the account for over 12 months by         
June 2022 when Tesco says it wrote to him.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he says he didnt receive the letter Tesco says it sent 
warning him of its intention to close his account. And that the first time he became aware of it 
was when he received a letter saying his account had been closed in September 2022. Mr W 
says that had he received the letter in June 2022 he would have used the card to prevent the 
account from being closed. So, Ive thought about this carefully.
I can see that Mr W has provided statistics showing the percentage of post that doesnt 
reach the intended destination. And I agree, post does go astray in the postal system  and I 
accept that its entirely possible that Mr W didnt receive this letter due to postal system 
issues. But I can only uphold Mr Ws complaint if I found Tesco had done something wrong. I 
cant hold it responsible for problems with the postal system.
So here, I need to reach a decision on whether Tesco sent the June 2022 letter to Mr W. 
And, where there is insufficient evidence, I must reach that decision on a balance of 
probabilities  what I think most likely happened given the evidence I do have. 
Tesco hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it sent to Mr W  only a template of the 
wording that would have been in the letter. I dont find this in itself to be unusual. Tesco has 
told us that it in this particular campaign it was writing to many thousands of account holders, 
so I wouldnt expect it to keep a copy of every letter it sent.
Tesco also hasnt been able to show that a copy of the letter being sent was recorded on   
Mr Ws account records. Tesco has explained this is because these letters were mailed out 
in batches, so they arent individually uploaded to customer records. However, it has 
provided an extract of the spreadsheet which listed all the accounts included in this 
campaign. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied that Mr Ws name and account identification 
number are listed on the spreadsheet. 
I can see that Mr W has said its not reasonable to presume that every letter Tesco intended 
to send was successfully printed and posted. While this is possible - on balance, given       
Mr Ws account was identified as not having been used in the previous 12 months and his 
name and account identification number appeared on the spreadsheet of cases requiring a 
letter to be sent, I think its most likely that the letter was successfully dispatched. As such, I 
dont find that Tesco did anything wrong.
I can see that Mr W has said he would accept an apology from Tesco. And Ive seen that in 
its response to Mr Ws complaint Tesco did apologise for any inconvenience its decision to 
close the account caused. Overall, I think thats enough and so I wont be asking Tesco to do 
anything further in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman